ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I'm declaring a recess until 9:45. [[Adjournment from 9 minutes 28 to 10 minutes 00]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the session. Please take your seats and keep your conversation quiet. Let me remind you that today is the thirty-nineth anniversary of the August agreements that ended August 1980 and changed the face of our land. I'm recessing my deliberations, and you're welcome... Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point: the second reading of the draft resolution on the commemoration of the 80th anniversary of the outbreak of the Second World War. and consider this point as the seventh. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the commemoration of the 80th anniversary of the outbreak of the Second World War. I would remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators, is included in print No 1288 and the report in print No 1288 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Jan Żaryn, to present a report to the committee on the draft resolution. Great request for a minute's technical break... Oh, no, it's just breaks. No, a minute isn't, 30 seconds... [[Talking in the O.R.]] The text of the resolution? I'd like the text of the resolution, please. You're welcome, Senator. Okay, okay, okay, The professor has everything in his head.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present to you a report on the work of the committee, which took a decision today at its morning meeting to bring to its session a draft resolution commemorating the 80th anniversary of the outbreak of World War II. This project was adopted unanimously... Please... I've got it. Of course, it concerns one of the most important events in our 20th century history, the outbreak of World War II. If you don't mind, I promise. Only two sentences, no more, entry, and then I will read the text of the draft resolution. It seems to me that the deepest intention of the applicants is to hope that also all the ladies and gentlemen of the Senators to take this resolution is to say that the Second World War broke out on 1 September 1939 and that there is no circumstance for this date to be replaced, and that as a result of this attack of Germany and the Soviet Union at least 60 million people were killed in Poland, or perhaps even a lot more, of millions of people. This is a very important statement, which also brings with it a very important interpretation, for today, namely that there is no world peace, there is no European peace without free and independent Poland. And this is the conclusion of those historical events. If someone wants to build peace and not to take into account Poland's right to sovereignty, he is not only wrong, but is co-responsible for such a dramatic cause... for what the result of this war was, i.e. more than 60 million victims. And the second thing, which is extremely important, which we stress in the draft of this resolution. From the first day Since September 1, 1939, the Second World War has been accompanied by the crime of genocide. This crime of genocide includes citizens of the Second Republic, who were already subjected to it, on 1 September 1939. And it is also to sound in this resolution. Now, if you don't mind, I'll read the project. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on commemorating the 80th anniversary of the outbreak of the Second World War. September 1, 1939, at 1 p.m. 4.40 Germany attacked Wielenia The city on the western border of pre-war Poland. A few minutes later, the German armadillo Schleswig-Holstein fired on a Polish military facility in Gdansk on Westerplatte. These events began the attack of Nazi Germany on Poland, and thus World War II. So far, it was the largest world war in history, which lasted from September 1, 1939 to September 2, 1945 (in Europe until May 8, 1945). The theatre of war activities covered almost the whole of Europe, eastern and south-eastern Asia, northern Africa, part of the Middle East and all oceans. Over 1.5 billion people participated in the war, including over 100 million people with guns in their hands. According to various estimates, at least 60 million people died. World War II caused many human sufferings and brought many damage. It was a planned genocide. Poland was a country in which the scale of material destruction, in the field of cultural goods and in the social structure was enormous. Its inhabitants were subjected to numerous repressions such as executions, resettlements, and property acquisitions. They took place both from Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union, which attacked Poland from the east on September 17, 1939. In the territory of Poland occupied by the Germans there were German concentration and extermination camps, places where the mass extermination of the Jewish people, but also Poles and many other nations, was carried out on an unprecedented scale. Poles fought against the enemy in defense of the borders of their homeland, but also on many fronts of war, among others. in the territory of the USSR, in Africa, on numerous European fronts. During the German and Soviet occupation, Poles built the structures of the Underground State and took arms to free themselves from invaders. In memory of the generations, as a symbol of the Polish pursuit of freedom, the Warsaw Uprising, which broke out on 1 August 1944, will remain. The Senate of the Republic of Poland commemorates the 80th anniversary of the outbreak of the Second World War and honors the memory of all the fallen, killed and otherwise oppressed citizens of Reborn Poland in 1939 and 1945. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. That's the draft resolution. I ask, of course, that a unanimous resolution be adopted and that the honors thus due be given to all those who fought for independent Poland, reborn in 1918. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u3	At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. Let me remind you that the applicants have also authorized Senator Jan Żaryn to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senator Czesław Ryszka made his speech in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on commemorating the 80th anniversary of the outbreak of the Second World War. Who's in favor of the senators? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. Sixty-five senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 6]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on commemorating the 80th anniversary of the outbreak of the Second World War. Two minutes off. Well, I don't know why... We're gonna have to announce a technical recess by 10:15. But what happened? But since no one left, I can, ladies and gentlemen, shorten this break to 10.11. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Okay, that's up to 10.11... We're back in session. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by items: the Act amending certain laws in order to improve the process of spending funds under direct support schemes and the activities covered by the integrated management and control system and consider it as point eight; the Law on the State Commission on the Clarification of Acts Against Sexual Freedom and Vice-Presidentship against a minor under 15 years of age and considering it as point nine; the Act amending the Act on Income Tax on Individuals and the Act amending the Act on Income Tax on Natural Persons and certain other laws and consider it as point ten. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. You're welcome, Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My objection stems from the work of the Commission on the Law on the State Commission on the investigation of cases of actions against sexual liberty and customs towards a minor under the age of 15. Mr. Marshal, our Legal Office hasn't had time to draw up an opinion. Only the oral opinion was presented. The discussion showed that half of the senators had very serious doubts about the provisions of this Law. I am talking about very experienced and very competent Senators of Law and Justice. They, too, had very far-reaching doubts about this bill. This bill was, as it appeared from our analysis, written, "I apologize for colloquialism." On your knees. She's flipping... interfering in an unacceptable way with justice. In my opinion, it also provides the basis for drawing far-reaching negative conclusions on the operation of the prosecutor's office over the last three years. This, in my opinion, is a vote of distrust over the actions of the prosecution. But now, Mr. Senator... I think... The senator is already expanding... I think because of all the doubts... Mr. Senator, I'm sorry... ...because of...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u5	But could you stop for a second? Sorry, I'm still a marshal, and I have the right to... Mr. Senator, you are very welcome to proceed with the conclusions, because we are not having a debate, but you are objecting. You've explained it briefly, and that's enough, so that very... Yeah, we got another one... But there will be a debate later, and you will be able to speak. I've got... Now, just give me a brief explanation, that's all, period. I'm just trying to justify it briefly. But you've been doing this a long time. That's why I'm asking for a brief explanation. It hasn't even been two minutes. Come on, Marshal, let me tell you something sometime. It's gone... I'm really not... Mr. Senator, it's been three minutes. We've been talking for a minute. Mr. Senator, it's been three minutes. Dot, amen. Well, you've got three minutes... You're welcome... ...in accordance with the rules of procedure. Since we're going to have one more meeting and there's been so much doubt, including on your side, on the side of law and justice... I see. Mr. Senator, I respect my time and everyone else's. ...I would very much ask that we proceed with this... Thank you very much, senator. Thank you very much. We therefore proceed to the vote, ladies and gentlemen. I understand that... Ladies and gentlemen, I will ask you again about the Act amending certain laws in order to improve the process of spending funds under direct support schemes and within the framework of activities covered by the integrated system of management and control, as well as the Act amending the Act on personal income tax and the Act amending the Act on personal income tax and certain other laws. And to these 2 points we have no objections, there is no report of not accepting my proposal. Now we are voting on my proposal. I propose the inclusion on the agenda of the item: the Act on the State Commission on the investigation of cases of actions against sexual liberty and customs towards a minor under 15 years of age and considering this point as the ninth point. Who's in favour of my offer? Who's against this proposal? Please report the results. 65 senators voted, 54 were in favour, 10 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 7]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that this item has also been placed on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws in order to improve the process of spending funds under direct support schemes and within the framework of actions covered by the integrated management and control system. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1289, and the report of the Commission In print No 1289 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, to submit a report to the committee. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I have the honour to report on today's committee meeting at which we discussed the law on amending certain laws in order to improve the process of spending funds under direct support schemes and within the framework of activities covered by the integrated management and control system. The honourable committee has not made any comments and asks the Senate to adopt a draft resolution, i.e. a law without amendments. There wasn't much discussion. Many of the amendments proposed in this Act are in line with the expectations of farmers who are able to benefit from the programmes under the RDPs and direct payments. These are improvements, these changes improve the functioning of the current laws. I ask the High House to support me. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u7	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Yes. We have Minister Ryszard Zarudzki with us. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! As it was presented, it is a law with a fairly specific name, you can say: a special act. This is why it is so presented that it concerns several laws. At the same time, we are amending the Rural Development Programme Act for 2014 and 2020; the Rural Development Programme Act for 2007 and 2013; the Promotion Funds Act; the Environmental Farming Act; and the Direct Payments Act. These simplifications or facilitations concern several cases, and it is important that the High Senate knows what this law is about. It is the result of consultation with farmers, social organisations, the outcome of our ministerial meetings, including direct work with groups of farmers, the work of agencies and the ministry in search of good solutions for farmers. First of all, what does the bill allow? This allows us to pay farmers advance payments for direct payments and advance payments for area payments under the Rural Development Programme, i.e. aid for hectares, aid for agri-environment, for deforestation, for LFA payments, for agri-environment and climate payments as from 16 October. Thanks to this every year because of the difficult conditions we paid... At the moment, this will no longer apply, since 16 October, there will be no need for difficult conditions for farmers to pay the corresponding amount for a given year's advance. At the moment, I can declare that we will pay 70% advance payments to farmers under direct payments from 16 October to 30 November. − that's it this year. If one of the farmers received a payment of 10 thousand PLN, he will receive 7 thousand PLN of support for the purchase of production funds, for the restoration of the basic assets - and due to drought it is very important to have liquidity. We support farmers in this way. On a national scale, the total budget will be this, you can say, far-reaching consequences, because 10 billion zlotys will be in the pocket of farmers by the end of November. But let us also know that such large amounts represent 8 - 10 000 per farm and that almost 700 or 800 000 farms will receive this rapid support by the end of the year. This is absolutely legitimate and I think the High Senate will express its full acceptance for this type of action, because they support farmers, especially in this difficult situation. Besides, we sort things out. The Act states that in the case of ownership of State land or land belonging to national parks or local governments, a legal title for agricultural parcels declared for direct payments is required for area payments under the development programme when applying for direct payments. To date, there has been this requirement to have land only and only as far as the mechanisms of the National Agricultural Support Centre are concerned. We extend it to all state land. I think it's tidying up this case, and it's also a big step towards cleaning up the various pathologies that have happened. We are careful here, we are careful and we listen to the comments that have been made on this matter. Then there are technical changes to give spouses an identification number. So far, it has been impossible to do this and it has not been possible to use certain programmes, especially those of the National Agricultural Support Centre. The farmers could not benefit from this, and it will be possible from now on that there will be 2 numbers on the farm - firstly, the farmer's husband holding the holding and the applicant for direct payments will have the number of the holding and, secondly, the wife who does not have payment entitlements but has entitlement to other schemes. That's rational support. We eliminate what was impossible, so that this access to funds is greater. And another thing: farmers who received advance payments from the 15th... And let me remind you that the government of law and justice in the next three years... Of course, there were difficult conditions, but we did everything to make advance payments for farmers both in 2016, and in 2017, and in 2018. In 2019 they will also be, from 16 October - I have already talked about this. However, there has always been a problem with organic farmers, because certification of these farms lasted until 30 November and not all farms could have received an advance. At the moment we have a statutory ruling here that this certification must end on 1 October, which means that during this period there will be advance payments for almost 20,000 farms. The aim is also to support this important direction, how important it is for us to develop organic farming to support these farms. Of course, there is also a simplification of the rules for participants in the agri-food promotion fund. There's a change here, too. And one more thing: we're shortening from one year to six months... We also reduce the point requirement for advisors. We know how important this is in counseling. A lot of people left counseling, but a lot came in their place because we had to fill in the blanks. Until now, it took a year for someone to become a qualified advisor. We're cutting it down to six months. And we're shortening some... Of course, I take responsibility for this as responsible for agricultural advice. This will be without prejudice to the quality of advice. We are shortening these periods to allow farmers the full opportunity to consult in this quite difficult situation. We build advice, counseling is in the transition phase and we need to adopt effective tools here. And the last thing that came up in the Sejm commission. These were parliamentary amendments. We've introduced laws amending the Animal Identification and Registration Act. We are talking about welfare measures. We have been introducing animal welfare since 15 March 2020, but farmers need to prepare. I mean, the thing is, she's been... It will be possible to subsidize the dungeon, but the dungeon must be registered individually with the restructuring agency. So far, there's been a herd headquarters. They must be How do I say this? It's anointed. These pieces will be part of the system. And that's where the farmers... Since the Act will enter into force on 1 October, there will be sufficient time to do so not at the last minute, but in advance so that advisers can help and that farmers register dungeons that will participate in the system. This is a very good solution for farmers. The action we are working on is one of several elements. Without getting into the details, I'm gonna say there's gonna be some changes to the laws and regulations. Today we are only introducing directional, basic facilitation that gives us the basis for further work. I ask the High Senate to support agriculture. I think there will be agreement both on one side and on the other side of the political scene. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u9	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you, Minister. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Law on the State Commission on the investigation of acts against sexual liberty and customs towards a minor under the age of 15. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1290 and the report of the committee In print No 1290 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Rafał Ambrozik, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u10	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to present a report on the work of the Committee on the Law on the State Commission on the Clarification of Cases of Action Against Sexual Freedom and Decentness towards Minors Under 15 Years of Age. As we read in the explanatory memorandum to the Act, this is another element of the fight against the existing problem of sexual crime, with particular emphasis on the victims who, at the time of the criminal offences against sexual freedom and customs, did not end their fifteenth year of age. In the current legal state, there are no means to enforce their rights by victims who only as adults have the conditions and the courage to talk about childhood injuries. In such cases, it is impossible to prosecute the perpetrators due to the expiry of the limitation period for criminal proceedings. However, the principles of social relations require that these persons be given special care and that they be restored to dignity. The Commission will carry out activities to clarify cases of sexual abuse which constitute acts against sexual liberty and customs against minors under the age of 15. The committee will also be interested in identifying negligence and omissions of state bodies, as well as non-governmental organisations, entities and institutions carrying out educational, educational, caring, cultural and cultural activities, as well as professional authorities, churches and religious associations, including ecclesiastical legal persons and private individuals, in order to explain cases of sexual abuse. The Commission will be composed of 7 members of the Sejm, 1 will be appointed by the Senate, and a representative of the President, the Prime Minister and the Ombudsman of the rights of the child will also be appointed. The reasons for this are also the criteria that will have to be met by the person who will be a candidate for membership of the committee. As we read in the explanatory memorandum, an entry in the register of persons in respect of whom the State's Interpreting Board... In relation to those who will be included in this register, there will be no... Well, this entry will not constitute a punishment or any other criminal measure, it will only serve as a preventive function. Indeed, as has been said, a rather turbulent discussion took place during the committee's deliberations. The Legislative Office has proposed amendments, they have spoken and many amendments have been tabled by the Senators, among others. Counselor... Senator Pociej, senator Żaryn, senators Sewerinski, Cichoń. There's been a motion for a law without amendment. The Commission voted with the result that 4 senators were in favour, 3 against, 2 abstentions. Therefore, on behalf of the committee, I request that the law be adopted without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u11	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Antoni Szymanski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u12	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Guests are here! First of all, I would like to ask who is the author of this bill. Secondly, did the Ombudsman take part in the committee's meeting? And if he didn't attend, I'd like to ask if his opinion was presented at the committee meeting. I ask this because I have this opinion here in front of me, it has 14 pages, and it is extremely critical of the solutions of the bill that has been adopted today. It confirms the need for solutions to this problem and this area, but with regard to the proposed solutions it is very critical. That's three questions, then I'll ask extra questions. Maybe I'd like an answer to those first questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u13	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u14	The Ombudsman or his representative did not attend a committee meeting. The bill was submitted by the President of the Council of Ministers. About the third question... Say it again. Has the committee taken note of the opinion of the Ombudsman on this bill? No one presented this opinion during the committee meeting. I do not know whether individual members had access to such an opinion or not. Anyway, I've never heard of that opinion.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u15	Good. Mr. Senator, you still wanted to ask, right? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u16	Yeah, I'd like to ask. The Ombudsman points to many shortcomings here, among others. incorrect or incorrect and excessively broad definition of the offence to be investigated. The effects he mentions are very dramatic. I will quote here a passage from the ombudsman's opinion: "Definition is very broad and includes many actions against sexual freedom and morals that are not committed. For example, the use of vulgarism about sexual connotations or the mere conversation about sex can be treated as an act against morality. Paradoxically, sexual freedom can be considered to be a violation of the definition proposed by this law. Even a parental ban on sexual intercourse before the age of 15. These activities are not and should not be validated and should not be the subject of the committee's proceedings. Could the senator refer to this remark by the Ombudsman of the rights of the child?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u17	I think that in a similar spirit some senators spoke during the commission's work, claiming that this law is too broad to refer to... In fact, it refers too widely to the possibility of a person speaking for some actions that were in the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u18	Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u19	I'd like to ask... Due to the urgency of the procedure and the fact that we have not had the opportunity to consult the Bureau's opinion Until then, I do not have a written opinion of the Legislative Office. I would like you to help us and explain this law in general, for example. Whether or not you talked at the committee meeting about whether the law on the state committee provides for a ban on persons over 15 years of age. I may read here the Supreme Court's opinion: "Already at the outset, it should be pointed out that it is worth considering giving up the special protection of victims for sexual exploitation of minors under the age of 15. For example, the 1989 Convention on the Rights of the Child, cited in the explanatory memorandum, is defined in Article. 1 child as a human being under 18 years of age. Not in all offences of Chapter XXV k.k. Criminalisation has been limited to the use of a child under the age of 15. Would you mind referring to that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u20	The Act explicitly clarifies in which offences and to whom it will be applied, i.e. a minor under the age of 15. However, if the senator believes that this age should be raised, you can make an adjustment. I'm asking if you've also considered the Supreme Court's opinion. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u21	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Senator of the rapporteur? There isn't. Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. The vice-president of the Council of Ministers, Mr Jacek Sasin, was authorised to present the government during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? At the Senate meeting is the present Undersecretary of State in KPRM, Secretary of the Council of Ministers, Mr Tomasz Szczegielniak. You're welcome, Minister. I would just like to point out that together with the Minister is the President of the Government Legislative Centre, Mrs Jolanta Rusiniak, who is also at the disposal of the senators. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! First of all, I would like to say that I will make general assumptions about the law. As regards the questions that may arise during the discussion, I will also ask for the floor of President Jolanta Rusiniak. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present a law on the State Commission on the investigation of acts against sexual liberty and customs against a minor under the age of 15. This law is primarily an expression of the state's response to the enormous expectation of society, in order to make amends as soon as possible to all those who, as a minor, have been victimized by paedophile crimes, and the perpetrators of these criminal acts due to the passing of time and statute of limitations remain anonymous and unpunished. A sense of justice dictates that no action directed against the sexual freedom and morality of children, despite the passing of years, should be protected by secrecy and not be forgotten. Victims who, only as adults, at the age of 30, have the courage to talk about the harm they have suffered in childhood, are unfortunately often in a sense of violation of their honor, rights and dignity due to the lack of possibility to prosecute the perpetrators precisely because of the expiry of the limitation period. Everything must be done to restore this sense of honor and dignity to them, so that it is not so that those who are ashamed of the crime are ashamed. The point is that those who commit these disgusting and disgusting acts should be ashamed. It should be noted, however, that in explaining sexual abuse to children, the law is not limited to a single professional or social group, as some would perhaps like to apply to all those who committed these acts, regardless of their profession, education or membership of a particular social group. Ladies and gentlemen, under the bill under review today, a state committee will be set up to clarify cases of sexual abuse against minors under the age of 15. The committee will also be interested in identifying the negligence and omissions of state bodies, as well as non-governmental organisations, entities and institutions carrying out educational, educational, caring, cultural and cultural activities, as well as professional authorities, churches and religious associations, including ecclesiastical legal persons and private individuals, in order to clarify cases of sexual abuse. The Commission, as the rapporteur said, will consist of 7 members. They will be appointed as follows: 3 members will appoint the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, 1 member of the Senate of the Republic of Poland, 1 member will also appoint the President of the Republic of Poland respectively, the President of the Council of Ministers and the Ombudsman of the rights of the child. The members of the committee should be persons with the highest level of trust, substantive knowledge and extensive professional experience in the field of committee activities. Hence, a member of the committee may be a person who meets the criteria set out in the Act, including having a higher legal, medical or psychological education. Those who could submit candidates for committee also identified entities such as the Supreme Bar Council, the National Council of Legal Councils, the National Judicial Council, the National Council of Prosecutors at the Attorney General, the Supreme Medical Chamber, the National Chamber of Psychologists and non-governmental organisations whose statutory tasks for at least 2 years included activities related to children's rights, in particular actions related to the protection and prevention of violence, including sexual violence. The term of office of the committee will last for 7 years. A committee office will be set up to handle the committee. Ladies and gentlemen, proceedings before the committee will take place after a suspicion of sexual abuse has been reported to the committee. Everyone will have the opportunity to make this notification. The notification may be sent in writing, by electronic means and orally to the minutes. Following such a notification, I would like to stress this, the committee will immediately hand them over to the prosecutor responsible for the whereabouts of the injured person. In the event of a final order to refuse or terminate proceedings on grounds of statute of limitations of criminality of the prosecutor, and in judicial proceedings, the competent court shall be required to refer the case file to the committee. These files will be based on the person responsible and the existence of the marks of the crime, but the criminal proceedings themselves, unfortunately, due to legal issues, i.e. the expiry of the limitation period cannot continue. In this situation, the role of the committee, given its preventive nature, will be to investigate the case in order to determine whether there has been a case of sexual abuse and possibly as a consequence of this inclusion of the person who will be indicated in the file as the perpetrator. According to the doctrine I would like to stress this. The statute of limitations on the criminality of the act, although it does not take away the criminal nature of the act. The termination of criminal proceedings shall be governed by law and shall be independent of the will of the parties to the proceedings and of the host body, which shall be the sole consequence of the expiry of the calendar time. It is then unacceptable for any penalty or other measure to be imposed, and therefore the entry in the register does not constitute a penalty or a penalty. It is merely a form of general prevention. The order for inclusion in the register of committees shall serve the injured person and the person designated as the perpetrator in the file of the case. The Act provides that the person named as the perpetrator in the file may, within 30 days of the date of service of the order for entry in the register, appeal against that order to the district court competent for the place of residence of that person. I would also like to say that the provision of the alert is, of course, preceded by an appropriate procedure and appropriate proceedings before the committee with the participation of witnesses and experts; the committee may also instruct the prosecutor to carry out certain activities. This procedure, and in particular the possibility of bringing an appeal before the court, will allow the person referred to in the order to protect his good name in civil proceedings, thereby guaranteeing his right to the court. Dear Senators, the committee is also to monitor the activities undertaken by the preparatory body in relation to all cases under consideration in relation to sexual abuse, as well as to carry out educational and preventive activities. As far as monitoring these activities is concerned, I would immediately like to refer to what Senator Pociej said: this is not a supervision of the prosecution's work or any lack of expression of confidence in the prosecutor general. The most important task in the field of education and prevention activities will be to prepare an annual report based on the activities carried out. The most important element of the report will be the conclusions and recommendations to state authorities and organisations and bodies in the field of preventing and combating sexual abuse and taking action to hold perpetrators responsible for such abuse. In addition, it will be able to evaluate draft normative acts on prevention and prevention of sexual abuse in the framework of the committee's tasks. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the specific questions are concerned, I will ask the President to refer to them if they are. I would just like to say, while referring to the work, to the procedure of the bill in committee, that there were indeed comments, but I think that most of them were explained during the work of the committee. I would ask you to take account of the fact that the law is a bill expected, a very important law, a law aimed primarily at protecting children's rights, which now often Already as an adult They're still traumatized. We hope that this law will make up for all the harm that children have suffered and which have not been properly explained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u23	Thank you very much. Does the president want to speak now or just when the questions arise? Good. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Antoni Szymanski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u24	Mr. Marshal! Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! This will be a question similar to the one I asked the Senator of the rapporteur. Me, too. I think that most senators, I have not had the opportunity to read the print yet and to make a personal opinion, but I have read the opinion of the Ombudsman. Of course, this opinion confirms the importance of adopting new legal solutions in this area. I don't think there's any doubt about that. However, it is noted that the whole of the Act is very underdeveloped and will therefore have consequences not as we would expect. The Ombudsman points to the broad definition and the mere definition of what will be investigated and what is a crime, and points to constitutional shortcomings in his opinion. Would you mind referring to the whole opinion? She has 14 pages, and my question must be short, so I can't characterize the whole opinion here, but there are also a number of proposals on how to change this law in certain directions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u25	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u26	High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Senator, I know the content of the Ombudsman's opinion. In principle, the Ombudsman proposed 3 conceptual changes. Firstly, he proposed that the committee should be served not by the newly created office, but by its office, the office serving the Ombudsman of the rights of the child. This proposal has not been taken into account because the essence of the project and in one of the first articles of the Act is that It is that the committee is independent of any other body. We have taken such an assumption, verified that in order for the committee to maintain this advantage of independence from all other bodies, it must have its own office, its own budget, its own satisfaction of needs, and not indirectly By the office serving another office. This would not serve the independence of this body. The second part concerned a change not of civil procedure, but of administrative procedure, which could not be taken into account because of the substance of the case. In civil proceedings, there are already proceedings for the violation of personal property, in which the court, without finding fault, determines whether the good, even such as physical immunity, has been violated. The administrative procedure is characterised by the authority's subordinateness, primacy. This is not a legal situation. Other parts of comments Especially what you quoted from the senator. It concerns a matter which is not in the Act. There's no matter that you're accusing a spokesperson of not complying with the constitution. This may be due to a lack of time. Well, there really wasn't much time to get to know the content of the proposal. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the procedure for explaining the statute of limitations applies only to the matter on which the prosecutor or the court has given a decision to drop the case on grounds of limitation. What does that mean? That means there's a negative case for criminal proceedings. There's a known perpetrator in the case file, and there are indications of an act, so it's known that this criminal act was. You can't just get a conviction... well, let's not get ahead of ourselves, but that's the way it is. And these are the only cases that are being investigated by the committee. The Ombudsman's comments concerned some unidentified sphere in which he felt a threat, but such cases the committee, in accordance with the law, will not deal with at all.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u27	Thank you very much. You are asking the question of Marshal Michael Seweryński. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u28	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a request for clarification from the Minister. According to the Act, it will be possible to include the perpetrators of sexual abuse that have already expired into the existing Register of Criminals on the Sexual Background under the order of the committee that we are calling. At the same time, it will not be possible for the perpetrator of such abuse to be considered a criminal because there is no proper procedure when there is a statute of limitations. So, as a result, someone who cannot be legally recognized as the perpetrator of a sex crime will be able to be entered in the records of the perpetrators of such crimes. How can we explain this contradiction? It's a contradiction to me, so I'd like it to be explained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u29	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u30	Dear Marshal, In order to clarify this quite complex matter, one should read into the Act on the Prevention of Sexual Crime Risks, that is, the Act that statues this register. Let me stress: the bill says it's a means of protection. This register today is a means of protection, not any sanction, no criminal measure. The bill I'm talking about uses the concept... It's not a record of conviction, it's just a record that's called the Criminals Register on the Sexual Background. A person inscribed in him with an appropriate order... This also applies to the person who is the perpetrator of the crime, only unpunished by the court. Therefore, the first part of the register concerns those convicted by the court, and the next part will concern, like the former, the perpetrators of the crime, only those found in the proceedings before the committee. This is a coherent solution, because it will all be in one register. As for employers' responsibilities, it will be clear where the employer is to look for information. Well, he's got some responsibilities, too, for preventive reasons. In our opinion, there is no risk that a person who is not convicted by a court order will be enrolled in the first part, although I will repeat it again. The register itself today is also not in the name of the suggestion that it is a register of persons convicted of crimes. It's called a criminal record. And the resolution also states that the crime has taken place.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u31	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Żaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u32	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Madam President, I have two questions. The first one refers to the question of Marshal Sewerinski. Namely, please show us that in fact the competence of the committee will concern only crimes and not broader concepts such as sexual abuse or even such far-reaching offences as suggested in the letter by the Ombudsman of the rights of the child. These are completely different categories, and they would be included in the same register, which, however, has a specific name. I do not see such a distinction as to clearly specify the scope, the terms which would be closely related to the concept of crime, whether it is statute-barred or not. That's the first question. But I agree we didn't have much time to look into it. And second question. We discussed this during the deliberations of the committee responsible. Namely, I have far-reaching doubts about articles which suggest referring to the common name he knew and did not say. This would be covered by a possible prosecution by the committee. It is about not informing about the possibility of suspecting any crime, regardless of how to define this possible suspicion. This is one point, in my opinion, too far gone with regard to the interpretation difference between the members of the committee and the person who would interpret it, all the more so because a false report could be correct, of course. I'm held accountable. But we are also dealing with a very specific phenomenon. We know that the bill was triggered by specific events, movies and discussions. How to behave, for example. A priest who receives information that he cannot pass on during confession, and who knows that he will not exercise this right? I don't see any security here for these kinds of issues of conscience. I give this drastic example, because he is of course the most famous, but you can give other examples of such moral situations in which you will find yourself and in which you will have to, according to your conscience, refuse to participate in the process, so to speak, to act in accordance with the law established.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u33	One at a time. I have already indirectly answered Mr. Marshal, but I will repeat here the article in the bill. This is the whole chapter on the explanatory procedure. In the event of a final order to refuse or terminate proceedings on grounds of statute of limitations on the criminality of a pedophilia offence, the prosecutor or the competent court shall refer the matter to the Commission. These are just the cases that the committee deals with in its proceedings. She's not involved in any other crime. She doesn't have any explanation for not letting anyone know. I would like to remind you that there is an article in the Penal Code. 240, which states that a criminal act is... The articles of the Code are mentioned here. It is a matter of not notifying the possibility of committing a crime of terrorism and other crimes, including crimes of pedophilia. If a person comes... The person has a choice: either he goes to the D.A. and reports that someone knew and didn't tell him, and then the D.A. takes action, or... And if such a person comes to the committee, the committee will only write down the notice and send it to the DA's office. And it's just these cases. Therefore, the law provides that any person may report this and that the notification before the committee is equivalent to the notification referred to in the obligation under Article. 240. So he didn't come to the committee and not go to the D.A.... Then he still commits a crime. So I'd like to explain. Besides, the situation is still legally tight... Well, it's in the bill to commit a felony of false accusations or false reports of a possible crime. Haven't I answered any questions yet?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u34	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u35	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have some, well, maybe not attention, but some doubts about the provisions of branch 4 It's about art. 26 and 27. Let's separate two states: the current state, so to speak, which means that a prosecutor or a court is sending a case file that has been dropped due to statute of limitations... And that's pretty clear, because I'm gonna have one more point. But the question is, what about those things that have already been, that is, with the provisions that happened before. There are no transitional rules here, at least at first sight, because I didn't find them. Tell me how far back this committee will go to analyze past resolutions about such redemptions and whether it will analyze them. And now I'm going to go back to that first case, I mean. current status. Namely, we are talking about the current in the sense that the decision which affects the committee was issued as if after the entry into force of this decision. There is to be heard a person named as the perpetrator in the case file submitted by the prosecutor or by the competent court. What if that person is dead? What then? We know this case. It's famous, it's public, it's from Gdansk. What happens then? Does the committee enter it then or does it not enter it in the register?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u36	But which person is dead? What do you mean, who? The perpetrator of the act. Without the perpetrator of the act, there can be no action. This is regulated by the law. If such a person has died during the course, then the proceedings continue. And as for the senator's first question... I'm sorry, but I'd like to have a clear statement, because it'll also be... Your answers will be treated as an interpretation of how to implement this law. No, it's a provision in the bill. Good. So the perpetrator of an act that's dead isn't going to be registered in that register? No. Where does it say that? Where? Now, I have to find it, Senator. And as for your first question about the cases that happened earlier... How many of them will depend on the victims. If, today, a person who has been affected by this disgraceful act, injured, comes to the committee or the prosecutor and makes such a notification, the prosecutor must accept it. And if, in the course of all operations, he finds that there is a statute of limitations, he will, of course, send such an old case to the committee. However, I hope that in future such cases there will be no statute of limitations, because we already have a law passed, although it is addressed to the Constitutional Court, for other reasons. In which there is a record that crimes of paedophilia do not expire. Therefore, in the future, I hope there will be no more such cases of statute of limitations. Well, but let's not pre-empt legislative solutions for the future, because the whole law applies to cases from the past, and how many will be and who will decide to report it depends on the victims, then children and today adults.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u37	If I could hear from you, where and how will be protected persons, for example. He's gonna want to quit infamy. Let's say somebody says he was molested by Mr. Y as an X, and that was 40 years ago. This is reported to the prosecutor's office, but of course there is a statute of limitations, because those rules did not apply at the time. And the question is, what's next? This person Y can't defend itself anymore because he's dead, for example. 20 years. I'd like to hear about a specific bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u38	As a matter of fact... The reported case is always addressed to the prosecutor. If the prosecutor finds that the defendant is dead, he'll drop the proceedings at all, but not because of the statute of limitations, just because the perpetrator is dead. It's regulated in K.P.K. That's not what the bill's talking about. That's what I'm talking about. Yes? The Act states that in the event of the death of the perpetrator who took place in the course of proceedings before the committee, further proceedings are not conducted.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u39	Okay, thank you very much. If the senator has any further doubts, he'll ask. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska asks a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u40	Thank you very much. I ask you to tell me quickly what powers the people who will be on this committee will have, except... Because I read that there's talk of moral competence, but we're actually dealing with legal matter. Explain how it will be ensured that cases will be settled by competent persons in such cases, competent not only morally, but also competent in the field of legal knowledge, which is needed for this. So tell me what the requirements are for the candidates for this committee. Second thing. To have black and white already, or this... I understand that the Prelate's case from Gdansk will not be dealt with by the committee. Yes? And that's the second question. And the third question. Please tell me: can a person affected by infamy and public accusation related to a pedophilia conviction report to the committee and ask for his good name cleared? How's it look? I understand that it is impossible for the dead. But what's it like with people who turn themselves in because they've been publicly accused somewhere, and they think they're innocent? Suppose the injured person didn't report the case somewhere else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u41	Senator, I'm answering your second question. A defamed person, wrongly accused, already has a legal instrument today to clear his good name. This is an action against the article. 24 Civil Code for the Protection of Personal Goods. Yeah. I'm sorry, I'm asking you what it's like in the bill. Because the fact that you can turn around and... We know how long the procedure for cleaning up in a civil process is, how expensive it is, how good it is to have a lawyer, etc. I'm asking if the committee will take care of it, too. No, it's not the committee's business. It is not the subject of the committee's work to deal with cases that purify wrongly judged persons. That's why there's a penalty rule that says who's been falsely accused... Such a person may turn to the prosecutor by accusing someone of committing such an act, or by using a civil procedure to protect personal property. Thank you very much. The question is, Senator Alexander Bobko... And the question of competence? Oh, yeah. Senator, the powers are listed. In addition to moral qualifications, these persons are to be licensed with legal, medical, psychological knowledge. It is up to the authorities listed in the Act to decide which persons they choose to present or choose. A helpful article to this end is an article that tells the actors who can submit candidates for committee members. After all, it speaks of the Chief Medical Council, there are entities such as prosecutors, such as the Chief Lawyer's Council, etc., etc. This is intended to serve in the decision-making process as to which candidates we submit. And so I imagine, if the Sejm chooses e.g. Three lawyers, maybe the Senate will choose a doctor. Well, that's what it's meant to be.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u42	Thank you very much. Senator Alexander Bobko.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u43	Minister, I have a question... We are talking about setting up a committee, but we are actually setting up an institution, because this committee will have service, etc., etc. I would like to ask what the annual budget of this institution will be, how many jobs will be provided there. Do you have that information? Because I didn't read it in the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u44	Mr Senator, this information was included in the impact assessment accompanying the draft by the Council of Ministers. In writing. I don't have that OSR on me right now. If you don't mind, I'll give you that information in writing. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u45	Senator Konstanta Radziwiłł.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u46	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, these words of doubt have already been cited here. In my opinion, this has not been clarified by the Ombudsman concerning the scope of the cases to be dealt with by the committee. According to the Act, these are matters that... explain cases of action against sexual liberty and decency towards a minor. An interpretation or definition of such acts has already been presented here. It seems that she is very wide, especially in the context of placing these people by a de facto court... He will act without punishment, but it will be a proceeding ending in the resolution to place such a person in the register. So I have this fundamental question: whether all these proven, demonstrated or decided facts by the committee, not only the drastic ones, but also those concerning, for example. Are the customs gonna mean that they're gonna be listed in the register of people whose order has just been issued in the committee? In particular, such a major concern concerns I'm a little afraid of that, and it's already been signaled by the spokesman. The parents, the parents who used non-terrible words, who behaved in a way that maybe deserved some kind of condemnation, but who were in one register with paedophiles or criminals, criminals who did some horrible things... Isn't this going too far? What's the brake, the border? How is this even going to work in practice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u47	Mr. Senator, I'll say it again. The proceedings concerning entries in the register, i.e. the issuing of provisions on these perpetrators, relate only and exclusively to offences of pedophilia. It doesn't involve any other crime, it's just these crimes. That's what the D.A. and the court do, every other crime... The Commission will not deal with offences involving the use of words that are commonly regarded as depraved on the street or against a child. She'll take care of it, it's in the bill. No, no. Well, customs...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u48	Good. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u49	I will admit that I am listening to this discussion and also have serious doubts, because the Ombudsman of the rights of the child has very clearly defined the possibility for the committee to take such threads, including that, paradoxically, even a parental ban on sexual intercourse before the age of 15. That's what the state official says. If we were to interpret the situation in this way, especially those parents who pay attention in the educational process to this issue would simply be incriminated by the state. And from this point I have a question about how this applies to the constitutional principle, let's say art. 41th Constitution, which says that parents have the right to raise their children according to their beliefs. I believe that it is necessary to change this preamble and even to throw it away and to limit itself to the definitions used in the criminal code only in this law. You just have to throw away this preamble, because it is unnecessary and may be the subject of media noise, even if there is news in the media that someone and why the committee doesn't do it should do it, because there is a preamble. Well, the whole story can be built out of it. We know that public opinion is very sensitive in this area. And rightfully, it's very positive. So the point is not to fire the baby with the bath. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u50	Mr. Senator, that's not a question. This is your opinion, your assessment. I'm not going to refer to her, I'm just going to repeat that under the criminal code, you know what a paedophile crime is. And only those cases that the prosecutor or the court sends, the committee will take care of.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u51	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski again. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u52	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! However, there is still one question with me concerning these issues, I would say, transitional, because they are being treated to a very minimal extent here. Well, I found an art. 36 with the following wording: The Commission shall terminate the investigation in the event of the death of the person designated as the perpetrator... Okay, but the question is different. Well, that's the situation. And this isn't a hypothetical situation, because it's probably gonna happen. That the person was... I mean, there was a paedophile case against somebody, and it was terminated due to the passing of time. This person was alive at that time, which was not given up because of the murder of the perpetrator, but because of the statute of limitations. And then that person died. Yeah, it happens. The question is, what about people like that? Are you going to deal with the affairs of people who are, like, formally subject to this law and who are already dead? And where are they excluded: whether here or in the criminal code, or perhaps in the law on this register? Because he is created to simply warn against paedophiles, but the living. All I care about is the infamy of a person who can't defend himself anymore. Convince me that this isn't the kind of case the committee will be taking.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u53	These cases, Mr. Senator, the committee won't take them because the D.A. won't send the case if the perpetrator is dead at the stage of his investigation, he's dead. And if such a person dies in the course of the proceedings, it cannot continue, in general the committee will terminate the proceedings in the event of the death of the person.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u54	Let me ask you a very simple question: how does the prosecutor who dropped the case 20 years ago know that this person is dead or dead? How does he say that? After PESEL...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u55	Well, he says as always, as in every procedure. In every case, he checks... Ma'am, the D.A. is closing the case, handing over the files to the archives. Question: how does he say that this man, against whom a decree was issued 20 years ago, is dead? Perhaps you have a special system? There's a PESEL, and it turns out that this person is dead. Is that really possible? I would like to hear from the Minister that yes, it is possible. Mr. Senator, I'll say it again. The Code of Criminal Procedure does not allow criminal proceedings to be conducted when the defendant is dead. This is not possible and there will always be a decision either to refuse to initiate proceedings or to withdraw. And that's why they won't send the file to the committee. And if, in the course of proceedings before the committee, a person dies, then of course The committee is finishing up. There's no way we can keep going. That's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u56	Thank you very much. Senator Antoni Szymanski again.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u57	Madam President, I would like to ask you to respond to two proposals from the Ombudsman. The first concerns the introduction of a compensation institution for victims, victims when it is not possible to seek compensation or redress from others. He proposes that compensations be paid from the Fund for Hurted Aid and Post-Penitentiary Assistance, the Fund for Justice. That's the first line. Do you think there should be such a possibility in this bill? The second proposal deals with the settlement and explicit regulation of 2 situations: where there is no criminal procedure initiation or after initiation has not been finally terminated and when the proceedings have been definitively terminated or the order to refuse to initiate proceedings has become final. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u58	I answer the first question: we believe that the Ombudsman's proposal does not concern the matter of this law. Of course, it is possible to examine whether people who have been harmed in the past, if the perpetrator is dead and cannot be compensated in a normal way, i.e. in such a way that the person who caused the damage, is required to do so... This fund, which you mentioned, is in a different law and there the proposals of the Ombudsman can be considered. If you could remind me of the second question, because I didn't really understand it... It's about opening proceedings, sacrificing...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u59	Madam President, this is the third proposal concerning the settlement and clear regulation of 2 situations: where there is no criminal procedure initiation or after initiation has not been finally terminated and when the proceedings have been definitively terminated or the order to refuse to initiate proceedings has become final.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u60	If the procedure has not been initiated for what reason? Exactly. Because if it hasn't been initiated, then the victim may come to the committee, report it, and the committee will send it to the prosecutor, so that procedure will have to be initiated. And there are instruments for a committee that can examine the ongoing proceedings and ask why the proceedings have been terminated.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u61	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u62	Thank you very much. I would also ask the Minister to respond to the Ombudsman's opinion, which is on page three... Namely, you write such words, accusing this project of a definitional inconsistency, I quote: The Projector uses the article. 2 (2) Point 2 (1) is the term "actions against sexual liberty and customs" and in point 2 the term "sexual abuse." The interpretation complicates the introduction in point 3 of the term pedophilia offences, which the designer defines as crimes against sexual liberty and morals towards a minor under the age of 15. The compilation in the same editorial unit of the term "sexual abuse" and the term "sexual offences" means that these terms should be treated as divergent meanings. What is your answer to that charge that you have formulated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u63	This allegation concerning the definition used in the Act, often raised, may be due to a misunderstanding until the end of the law. Because the committee is not a law enforcement authority, it is not a judicial system, it is not a criminal procedure and it cannot use the concepts used under the Code of Criminal Procedure. Therefore, we have no defendant, no victim, people are invited, not summoned... The Commission deals not with crimes, but with cases transferred from crimes by the prosecutor, but she no longer investigates crimes because it would violate the constitution and the principles of k.p.k. Thus, the wording used for pedophilia offences refers to the definition in the criminal code, and this concerns the investigation procedure, and only from those offences is the case referred to the prosecutor or the court. Then, under the law, it's already called sexual abuse. But the committee also has other tasks, not just the investigation. He has a report, he has an educational activity and he has a preventive activity, and in all these spheres he uses this broader concept, a broader one, because it is necessary to instruct that there is no crime yet, and there is already a bad touch for parents to pay attention to it, so that teachers pay attention to it... There are educational and promotional activities... I know this may be difficult, but it won't be difficult for specialists if we still read into the bill... The concept of crime concerns the investigation and only those crimes involved in the actions of the prosecutor and the court. But sometimes this crime will also be for other purposes... But then it will be the term "sexual abuse."
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u64	Thank you very much. Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u65	Madam President, I would like to establish some issues and whether I understand the substance of this law correctly. Namely, as I understand it, we can deal with two cases. One case is when the committee takes a message about a sex crime, which is obviously not statute-barred yet. Then he addresses the case to the prosecutor's office, is interested in how it goes there, etc., if it is addressed to the court, he may act as a sue prosecutor, etc. Good. And the second time we're dealing with a fact I don't call it a crime yet. It was the subject of an investigation, but unfortunately it did not end in a consensual way, because there was a statute of limitations. As I understand it, these two cases are the only possible ones here. Is there another one?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u66	Mr. Senator, the committee may have a role in accepting reports of a criminal offence and does not examine whether there is a statute of limitations or not. He'll direct everything to the D.A. Sure. If he gets a notice and clearly... Even if you can see that there is a statute of limitations, it will send it to the prosecutor's office, because the committee's competence in such cases is limited to the transmission of the order and the case file to the prosecutor or the court. Sure. It's not gonna work for the public. Yes, sir. Good. So there's gotta be some kind of notice to the committee about this? Order... But I don't... First, about the fact itself. He doesn't have to, he doesn't have to. Which means the committee can also take... Yes? No. No, no, no. Well, that means there has to be a notification. The order of the prosecutor must be sent together with the case files or from the court. I understand. I just... Well, for example. Today there is some public information about someone who may have committed this kind of crime. Is the public committee... No, no. No. So... One of those public casualties, let's call it short-term, has to come to the D.A. or the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u67	Sure. That's what I'm trying to figure out. Good. And here's the key question. Because... let's take these cases when such a person comes, you're asking questions, and it turns out that the case has been or is being considered, will be considered... But unfortunately, there's a statute of limitations, and the D.A.'s office dies. Yes? And now you're doing it, right now. Right? Commission. Yes, sir. The Commission takes care of this, interrogates and finally takes a specific decision. Yeah, it's a decision. So it works like a court. Well, unfortunately, it is. Because just because they dropped the case because of the statute of limitations doesn't mean that the person was guilty.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u68	There's no blame in front of the committee. I'm sorry, but if you put a man on the pedophile list, you're gonna convict him of civilian death! Mr. Senator, this person is not deprived of protection and of his guaranteed rights. He has the right to apply to the court for verification of that provision.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u69	Madam President, I know he has the right to appear in court. It's just a little bit like that. When the D.A.'s office accuses someone of something. Right? Well, there's still gonna be a court, but... this could be a completely unfounded accusation, but this man has been here for years. He's like, "Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, And after a while, even if he's acquitted, some of them will still think that it doesn't matter if he stole the bike or stole it, he was involved in stealing the bike anyway. Unfortunately, even if there was a waiver, there is no undisputed conviction here. Only the court can tell. But the state will actually put this man in that ledger... [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u70	Good. Sir... Whoa, whoa, Madam President. Has the senator finished his question yet? Yes? Yeah, pretty much. Okay, thank you very much. Well, then, Madam President, I'd like you to take the floor. I'm asking you to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u71	Mr. Senator, well, up to a point, it's your opinion, your evaluation. I can only answer this: there are already cases today where a civil court ordered the victim to apologize for the statute of limitations, without finding fault, to apologize for sexual abuse, and this person in this mode apologized and has not landed yet. Sorry about the colloquialism. It's in the register. Presenting this project, and now the bill, the government took this axiologically. What should be more protected The victims and preventive and educational activities, or those before, perhaps sometimes, in some situations, unjust infamy?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u72	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the president? You're welcome, Senator Antoni Szymanski. Who else?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Madam President, this will be the last question on my part. I'm going to refer a little bit to what Senator Borowski said about the consequences. The effects of being listed from the point of view of parental authority will be far-reaching, because the family court cannot, when it finds that such a fact, i.e. the fact of being included on the list, takes place, treat it as something irrelevant. It's gonna have very serious consequences. Do you know that?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u74	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u75	Yeah, that's why there's protection measures for a person like that. She can go to court to verify such an order. Only the final decision of the court is the basis for entering or not entering in the register.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u76	I'll just complete one sentence, Mrs. Marshal... Good. ...no longer expecting an answer. This will provoke situations such that the court will restrict, for example. Parental authority, and the question of whether this entry was correct or not, will last for a very long time. I see here very serious threats from the point of view of parental authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u77	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the president? I don't see any calls. Madam President, thank you very much. Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that a government representative has committed himself to answering in writing the questions asked by Senator Aleksander Bobka. I'm opening a discussion. I'll ask Senator Aleksander Bobka to speak. Who? Senator Bobko... Senator Bobko, Senator Rulewski and Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. [[Talking in the O.R.]] First the professors, Jackie. But what happened that there wasn't... Mr. Senator, you're welcome. Let me explain. You were booked to the next point, just a friend of Rafał put it on the wrong list. But it's already been prescribed, so it's okay. Attorney Zdrojewska. Quiet, please. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u78	Mrs. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! Today we are looking at such a precedent, a unique law, which concerns very painful issues, because harming children is undoubtedly, one can say, as if the very essence of evil. There is a lot of literature on this subject, e.g. Dostoevsky When it is said that harming children is something that cannot be explained, it is impossible to justify. This is also, incidentally, an interesting argument against the moral relativism that reigns today. Because today it is dominated by the belief that everything is relative, that my moral evaluation and your moral evaluation are equivalent. But at least on this one point, the one about child harm, there's no relativism, no one's relativizing it. Good. The second point is... I mean, I see a paradox here. Nowadays, in a time of peace, because it is the longest, well, very long period of peace in Europe, generally a period of prosperity, cultural development and development of education... Paradoxically, during this period of beautiful Europe, it is a horrible phenomenon of child abuse and pedophilia, and it is probably on an unprecedented scale, or at least the historians of earlier periods of such a phenomenon do not describe it. And it pans out in cultural institutions, in artistic environments, in educational institutions, about horrors, also in churches. What is the reason for this? And how can we prevent that? Because it is indeed a great challenge. You'd have to ask yourself what's causing this. In my opinion, there are two... I have little time here; of course we could talk about it much more, but let's say we have 2 reasons. One of them is the collapse of a traditional model of morality, especially in the area of sexuality. For centuries, sexuality has been surrounded by certain taboos, surrounded by some discretion, but also as if by some rigor and discipline. In the last few decades, however, this extraordinary sphere of human life, which is connected with energy, with force, with vitality, has been left to itself, and is more and more promoted, and is promoted by ideologies that say that man is a being who actually lives to satisfy himself, to unleash his sexual urge without special obligations, in the form of loose, free, without rigor, without obligation. Right? And that's a big problem. This is a big problem. This phenomenon that amazes and shocks us, in my opinion, is the result It is this ideological change that takes place in the last 50 years that dominates such pure, empty hedonism. The second thing, the second element is pathology, undoubtedly surprising and astonishing pathologies, which ensure impunity for the perpetrators of these shameful acts, make it possible to say that some social status, property status, Oscar and purple protect against responsibility, protect against the consequences of such shameful acts. What's the conclusion? In my opinion, first of all, education, return to value-based education, so showing and promoting certain attitudes, showing that certain sexual restraint, self-control, that rigor, sexuality operating in a certain orderly space, and in history such an orderly space is simply family, not free relationships and relationships without obligations... Promoting such attitudes is a concrete means to prevent this phenomenon, to promote the attitude of faithfulness and what the family carries. Although, of course, we know that terrible things can happen in families too, there is no point in pretending otherwise, but nothing better has been invented. It's like they say. I can think of such aphorism that democracy is the worst of the systems, but it was not invented better, well, here I would argue, so to speak, that family is the best space to develop something as beautiful as sexuality, maybe the worst possible, also has its dark sides, but nothing better has been invented. So, first of all, education based on values, which today those who carry the banners of the fight against pedophilia, especially in some institutions, do not notice. Another element is the absolute action of state services, the prosecution and the justice system, yes, the absolute action of the prosecution and the justice system. There's a problem with that, too. This bill... Well, there were some significant words from the Minister that this bill was cited. It corresponds to social needs. I would like to read it in good faith, but unfortunately, in my view, this bill in a facade manner, seemingly responds to some anxiety and social demand, in fact, without solving anything. In my opinion, the committee, or actually the institution... Because the word "commission" is euphemism, right? The committee is some kind of body that gathers and goes home. This is where we set up the institution. I don't know how big, how expensive, but we know from experience that institutions have a thing for each other, that they start at 15 jobs, after a year they have 50, after 2 years 200, etc. So we're calling some A quasi-court-procurator institution, which, in my opinion, distorts the existing structure of the justice system. The prosecution should act as standard here, accept applications and act as appropriate, and should act as courts that will do their job. So I don't really understand what this committee is actually going to bring to our reality a new quality. Except for something that will satisfy a piarowski at the moment... or maybe such a social demand, such a feeling that the rulers care about the cause. But in my opinion, it's kind of a facade act. I would like to be wrong here, but in my opinion, this appointed committee does not bring anything significant and groundbreaking in the fight against this appalling phenomenon that we have been dealing with in recent decades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u79	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u80	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator rapporteur Ambrozik, reporting on the work of the committee, said that the debate at the meeting was turbulent. That is not true. This debate was very substantive. If there was something interesting during this committee's deliberations, it was a rapid change of views and conclusions of the right-wing representatives, which was astonishing and has violated the rhythm of the work of this committee. So that applications for admission, including even proposals for government changes, have been converted into applications for rejection. But let us leave what is undoubtedly history, although this law also speaks about history. I agree with my predecessor's view, perhaps even broadening it, that the issue is much more extensive and, above all, requires other instruments than the appointment of a committee. Well, back in the day of the commune, it was said that the committee was such a body, such a collective of random people, sometimes even good people, but gathered accidentally, to solve a problem that the existing and designated institutions are unable to solve, and that the committee will not solve anything, but will work a lot for the needs of the committee itself. That was the definition of the committee. I quite agree with Senator Bobka here that this committee is a facade. It's worse if it's just facade. Well, unnecessary committees may exist as long as they don't hurt. Well, that's the charge. In particular, please note, on the right hand side, there are few, there are only voices here That the idea of this committee goes across constitutional principles and legislation, because a new judicial and analytical and police institution is being created. It is not true, Minister, that the work of this committee was such an innocent record of perpetrators or crimes, deeds committed in the past, today and in the future. Well, there are other tasks to be assigned to this committee. Yes, it's true, it's about creating a register, but it's also about prevention, education, as well as police and judicial tasks. That's where they say, for example. of this That's a basic plea. That register is valid for the rest of the life of the person concerned. This is a very strict duty. Next, it is also said that disciplinary committees should be notified, and the registered ones themselves should report to the police, and when they get out of prison, even if they... have to notify the police of their whereabouts. Well, it's no longer a preventive action, it's a task. purely police-court-procurator. Of course, there is also talk about the need to refer proposals to disciplinary committees. And the Supreme Court here is making this basic allegation that we are creating a quasi-court institution, which I do not see in the fact that there is no such counter-disciplinaryity of proceedings, here the alleged or actual perpetrator is not able to defend, in this law there is simply no code of conduct. Will this committee call in what mode? It's already much better worked out in the case of another famous commission. The Warsaw Land Commission. At least somebody's got a right to something, to show up. etc. Most of the time, she worked so hard, she put on penalties when someone didn't show up, but it's good, isn't it? Here, in this solution, I do not see it, in other words, it is a bit of a hooded committee. Well, of course it's a matter of course, both our constitution, our laws and the European Convention on Human Rights say that there has to be a procedure in which the parties have their rights, the defender, there's only a proxy, and here we don't talk about it, it just fits in. This convention also states that matters already settled, even if not substantively, but for other reasons, cannot simply be re-sanctioned and re-sanctioned. There are even more reservations. Suffice it to say that the government did not do a good job, because it did not see how similar committees work in the European Union or in other countries that were more focused on conducting the analysis, which is part of it, and recommendations for existing institutions, as I also said at the committee meeting. Indeed, today's priority is to fight what modern culture fills, what is not said at all, especially the visual one, in terms of sexualization of life. And maybe it's not that tragic. The tragic thing is that this sexuality of life affects not only children under the age of 15 years, the Supreme Court also suggests that this limit should be higher. But it affects the weak. I would defend any weak, regardless of age, if he became a slave, an object of conquest, including sexual, generally or often for economic reasons. This is not discussed here and is not countered by the fact that the carrier of all this is not a single case, but a culture. Now I would like to move on to the fact that this proposal, questioned very strongly by many institutions and people, does not solve the problem, is an attempt to drag a rope through a small hole in the needle. What happened in Poland is a profound breakthrough, it is a deep crack. Well, what happened was not about individual cases, because Poland was doing better or worse, I think even better than in the West, where slavery of children, not only children, including women, is still an unresolved problem. I think it happened because it was character, I'm sorry for the definition, environmental, industry, in the Church. I am close to the Church and its values, and it is in my interest as a senator to settle this crack. My proposal to the government in May was to solve the problem where it came from, so that it would be a committee. not as proposed here, of a legal nature, but as a committee of truth and reconciliation. After all, this law is about what to do with the past, which resulted from the negligence of institutions, including the Church and state institutions, which relied on trust. Who are we talking about? About the Church as a model of morality, i.e. the one who should be a prosecutor, a judge and at the same time, that's what I call a key for following these cases. And there is no such thing, dear government, answers. Do you want to keep this conversation going? What else did Mr Morawiecki not take into account from my proposal? All we're talking about is legal aid for victims, and I'm asking, isn't medical assistance and material compensation still needed there? If we say that it is the fault that the cause of the victim is the responsibility of the State for the consequences suffered by that person, the victim. That's not what we're talking about in this bill. Come on. I do. Even though I didn't read Ryan's recommendation or the German commission You have to go to the recommendations. Rather, this committee should issue recommendations to existing legal institutions. Perhaps such a recommendation would aim to extend the limitation period of such crimes, because today he is short. Perhaps it would also have to revise the definition of what is a crime or a criminal offence or a depraved act against morality and morality, exploitation of... In my opinion, these are committee tasks. Even if it's not in this bill, Minister and Minister, think about it. It doesn't have to be in the form of a legal institution, codes... Time. And that's the mistake of trying to push through the codes, through the law, through the various institutions of the law, and through the codes themselves, something that has already slipped through control. One more sentence, it's such a small thing, because I don't want to take any more time. Here it is not specified where its seat is. The important thing is that the seat is in the Supreme Court. And it's important. It's written wide here. Who's going to be president, because it's going to be political institutions, and it's important that the first president... is the president... and I'm sorry that it's the Supreme Court judge elected by the assembly of all the judges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u81	Thank you very much. Please, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u82	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, I'm going to say the formula that we always say in such cases, i.e. I will protest against the procedure for adopting the law, especially one that requires consideration, which requires a very serious approach. Because it is an important law, but also socially expected, concerning also matter, which is very serious, because it concerns the goods of victims of crime and human rights in the case of proceedings. It seems to me that this law is certainly some result of the powerlessness of law enforcement agencies, the powerlessness of our law enforcement authorities, and probably also the powerlessness of the legal system that we have, and which we have already tried in the Senate to improve to improve the situation, but probably not yet enough. I'm a proponent. the appointment of a committee, but I believe that this committee should be limited to such activities as Senator Rulewski referred to, i.e. to activities consisting in examining the cause of pedophilia in ecclesiastical institutions 'Cause that's why we're dealing with it first and foremost. But also educational, educational, also in the family, and to indicate ways out, repair it. This is included in the bill and I appreciate it very positively, because this is the important part. And this is where I think this committee should stop, not go into the jurisdiction of the court, not become a quasi-court, not into the powers of law enforcement, because, as we've heard... I'm sure she won't have the authority to do that no matter who we call her. And because of the method of vocation, she would have excellent powers to diagnose the problem, present it, show it how wide it is and what it concerns, tell about it and point out ideas for solving the problem. And then, I think, none of us here would have any doubt, anyone would have voted in favour of this bill. And the fact that so many people are asking questions today has doubts is not only because of the breach of legislative procedures and the fact that, as usual, we received this law at the last minute. We were also unable to read the opinion of the Legislative Bureau. It's left, I suppose. I don't think I'm wrong. spoken orally. Well, the written opinion wasn't on the shelves in the Senate. And when it comes to... Well, of course, we're not left without any opinions. I, in preparation for the sitting, have served the opinion of the Supreme Court. I do not want to mention all this anymore, but in many points this law really violates not only the Convention on Human Rights, but also the Polish Constitution. Just like that, in a normal way. It is likely illegal, which will cause these people, defending themselves against entering this register, to simply appeal to the highest tribunals. This will take a very long time, and it will eventually turn out that this law will be challenged because it contains such errors that are very negative. This is probably the first institution of this type to become some kind of quasi-court and judge guilty or innocent. Let me remind you about the IPN law, which also concerned a certain social infamy, i.e. a register which causes, apart from other effects, such infamy. But in that case it was simply decided that a collection is being published, a set that is... And then it's kind of appealing. And here we are dealing with a different situation. This quasi-court procedure leads to a situation where a man is entered on this list. And what's he supposed to do then? In fact, this is civilian death, as someone has already said. Just because he's gonna defend himself, that he's gonna appeal against it in a civil trial, it's not gonna help him. He's gonna be blamed, he's gonna lose his job, he's not gonna be able to run for office. If it's written innocently... And something like this can happen because there is no procedure here that gives such a person the right right to defend himself. Well, there are no such procedures guaranteed here. There are also violations of the limitation rules. Someone might, for example. to be tried twice in the same case. Well, this is where we're gonna deal with cases like this. There is also a violation of the principle that doubts are settled in favor of the accused, so as not to make a mistake, so as not to convict an innocent person. So that, legally speaking, this is a terrible solution. But let us also consider the consequences It can trigger and what it's for. Why don't we ask him first? It seems that this law in this form is completely unnecessary. She could only contain what I'm talking about, I mean. We could set up a committee to deal with what such committees dealt with in the West, in Western Europe. And these committees have done their job. I think it might also be possible to... In order to find public acceptance, perhaps we should consider procedures for a faster solution to these issues that we are currently dealing with. Because I think there's a problem here that we're dealing with obvious pedophilia in different places, for example. in ecclesiastical institutions, and these cases are still in the process of prolonged, very long proceedings. This is what we should do first. Next thing you know, this is what I'm talking about. Well, for example. No one can turn to such a committee to exonerate himself if he's been wrongly accused out there. That's bad, too. This committee won't be able to explain things anymore. He's not gonna explain a situation like this, like... On the one hand, some want the case of Father Jankowski to be explained to the end. Whether he was guilty or not. Some say that we would like his acquittal, and others say that we need to brand such cases, because it is impossible for such people to be honorary citizens, to have high state decorations or something like that. But it's not gonna be here because this committee isn't gonna explain things like that. That's what you have to say. Let us remember that we are creating a third register. It doesn't make any sense anymore. We have one public record of pedophiles right now, one private record of pedophiles, and now there will be a third register of pedophiles that this committee will be able to enter. I remind you... I'd like to draw attention to something we've already discussed in the creation of a pedophile registry. Let me remind you that we do not have records of other crimes, i.e. There's no situation that a person who, say, has been in prison for 25 years for cruel crimes is coming out... She can live next door to us, and we don't know that. This is a crime because of the current social standards in some particular way subject to assessment and social pressure, but we as senators should not give up on it. We should think about it. If there is a register where the appeal procedure is that there will be a civil court, a civil trial, a court appeal... It means, as I say, in the case of a list of that type, that a man is convicted in life and he is already losing his health. I'm talking about a possible innocent person. The Supreme Court's view of the Ombudsman's rights on the other hand should be important to us because it concerns human rights in this case. And the most important thing from our point of view is not to condemn to social infamy, to the death of a civilian person who will be innocent, but at the same time try to solve this problem, because here we all agree that the problem is. And there's a general consensus here that it needs to be solved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u83	Thank you. Senator Konstanta Radziwiłł.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u84	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! Maybe I'll start by talking about the last sentence in which we heard that, first of all, we need to settle the case, not act against the possibility of judging an innocent person. This is, in my opinion, a reversal, and that is the whole problem. Why is this bill even necessary? It is simply because we have all failed. There was no failure of an organ, no failure of a social group, no failure of an institution. It's just us who failed. The best proof of that is In fact, the committee's tasks are focused on this, especially in this part of the case-law. That we have a deep conviction that there is a huge number of cases that have not been resolved. And why weren't they taken care of? Because we failed. We've all failed. Pointing a finger at one institution or another, or one body or another, in my opinion, makes no sense when you see it clearly. After all, such reports are well documented. It's a disgusting phenomenon that works. We will start with churches, but it is also in sports, in culture, in education, in educational centres, in health care. Question is, where is he not? We have also failed because there is a double principle in relation to many such cases either environmentally or in general. People whose actions are basically documented, especially in the context of... Sometimes there's not even a special denial. Pedophiles known in the world as simply celebrities from the front page of the newspaper, known from the media, traveling around the world, walking around the world, and everyone knows that. But there are still a lot of people who think that it's okay that in fact artists are allowed more or priests are allowed more. Or maybe there's more to the educators. Maybe somebody else? We failed. We've all failed, and it needs to be fixed quickly. One of the things that fail, in my opinion, in this whole case, is also the principle that must, of course, be observed, but which, in my opinion, has been somewhat distorted in investigations or in various investigations, i.e. the principle of presumption of innocence. Unfortunately, in this case, in a perverted way, it leads to the fact that the perpetrators are more protected than the victims. I think that such a belief, unfortunately, is not only in this area, but this area is special in this respect, because here the victims are people who are completely vulnerable, children who in no way can resist the terrible perpetrator, who often has some formal or informal power over them. For all these reasons, this bill is needed. There is a need for a solution that is unique, different from before. Here was the term "quasi-court." Yes, you need a quasi-court, especially in relation to those cases that have occurred... Well, they've already expired, and no court will ever take care of them, because it's just the rules. Of course, these rules can be changed, but, ladies and gentlemen, we're not going to change them because that would be a really hard violation of the general rules. In relation to what was in the past. You can introduce the principle of non-prevention or longer periods of statute, but only that, so to speak, forwards rather than backwards. If we want to deal with this horrible legacy that we're witnessing, we have to do it extraordinarily. And that's what's happening here. Of course, the case is delicate, because we are creating a kind of court. We're shutting it down. This was very clearly said by the Minister, but the living, however, in some sense, where possible, in quotes, we want to judge. This is a social need, but this is probably also the need for those who see that we must start fighting this phenomenon, starting with this sad, dramatic reality that we are dealing with. I can say this: these types of quasi-court institutions exist. Someone here said there's no such institution. They're here. Some work better, some work worse. There are two coming to mind right now. One concerns the return of property reprivatized in Warsaw or in other cities. She seems to be bearing good fruit. But there are others. In the area of health care, there is a committee that takes care of You could say it's a little quasi-court, too. . compensation for medical damage. And she doesn't work well, everyone criticizes it. We'll see, maybe there'll be more here, so to speak, positives. It is very good that this committee, in addition to quasi-court tasks, also has tasks to think about how to fight this terrible phenomenon at all, with its causes, with its fundamentals. Why is this being born? I share the courts of some who said that it is something civilized, that there is some consent to the fact that sex is everywhere and that every sex is acceptable. The principles that existed before, in some sense closing sex within certain values, caused people to think differently, although this phenomenon probably occurred in the past. This is all good, of course. I hope so. 'Cause I also reported my doubts. However, the Commission's work will focus on really explaining these most horrible phenomena, that they will not go too far, even so as not to get caught up in a number of possible minor cases. I hope that this will not go so far as the Ombudsman is a little bit concerned about the rights of the child, namely that the committee in its research, and in particular the decisions, will interfere too much in family life, especially where it is not appropriate to interfere, namely with shoes, as it is said. Because this isn't about protecting parents who do paedophile acts, it's about not qualifying for the scope of the committee's actions when we're just dealing with some relatively small irregularities, so that we don't throw them, as they say, into one bag. In general, I think this bill is needed in such a version. What's the rush? Why some shortening or simplifying consultation? For obvious reasons - because on the one hand it is the need for a moment, and on the other hand, we are here and now as regards the parliamentary term. If we're gonna start prolonging this right now, it's just gonna turn out we're not gonna. It seems that this would be a contradiction of expectations, but also of the real need that exists in this regard. I will vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u85	Thank you very much, Senator. Mrs. Marshal, I'm checking in. There you go, Mr. Senator, of course. Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u86	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The fact that so many doubts were raised here that there were so many critical voices, both sides of the House, shows that the procedure in which this law was prepared and in which it is presented is simply unacceptable. This law affects a very delicate matter, because it concerns past cases. Because I'm not talking about current cases when someone reports today that they have a suspicion or a conviction about sexual crime, and the committee is gonna refer it to the D.A.'s office. It doesn't raise any doubts. Here, the key issue is those cases that have taken place or have not taken place in the past, and the case, unfortunately, cannot be taken because the limitation period has expired, and the prosecution will rule that this case will not be dealt with. And from that point on, we're starting to discuss what to do with this thing. And if the draft law were properly consulted, publicly consulted - because we all want these issues to be properly regulated - we would not have such a debate today. I am very sorry, Senator Radziwiłł, but just as you disagreed with the last sentence of Senator Zdrojewska, I do not agree with much of your statement. Because you said that the presumption of innocence is, of course, absolutely, but there are situations where the presumption of innocence has to be corrected, it has to be reduced, it has to be shortened, etc. Did I say that? That's what you said. Oh, no. Excuse me? No, I didn't. That's what I figured. Ah... That's how I understood it. But no, I'm not going to insist on my own, because you said the law should protect the victim more than the perpetrator... Yes. You just said that. Well, that's what's so bright about it... Myk. Yeah, that's the kind of thing. Namely, every time you try to limit the presumption of innocence, it is said that the law should protect the victim more than the perpetrator. Now maybe I've made my point. Well, no, no, because the moment we start walking away from this, crimes of paedophilia, very disgusting crimes... I can name 10 more disgusting crimes. And with each one of them, if the right government authority wants to show the public that he's fighting this very hard, he's going to try to use this kind of rhetoric: well, here we have to limit the rights, because the victim needs to be protected more than the perpetrator. Last time we had a bill here, it was completely fatal. She had good parts, but at that point, she was a mess. Namely, that the court can deal with the case without the presence of the defendant and his attorney, both may not be, and the court will examine the case and question witnesses. Why? Well, it's about speeding up the procedure, because the procedures are too long, so we're more protective of procedural issues here, and indirectly of the victim, than of the perpetrator, etc., etc. Mr. Senator, there's no consent, just no consent. We have to look for other solutions, but not like this. Now in this case... Ladies and gentlemen, here we have a contradiction in ourselves. Well, what does that mean? Maybe not everyone noticed that, I noticed that when the committee wanted this culprit, whose case was dismissed due to statute of limitations, to register, and he would complain to the court, this entry would not be made, that is, this entry would not be completed yet. So it can be said that, from this point of view, it is not yet clear whether or not he can be accused of it. First of all, not exactly, because it doesn't say anywhere that this committee is acting in secret. The press will know for sure that the committee on whether or not that citizen was going to sign him up and he canceled. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Oh, no, wait a minute. Okay, let's just remember that the case was statute of limitations and therefore... All I care about is the argument that it's not written yet, so maybe I'll just say it's easy to walk. That's not a good argument, because this case is gonna go away anyway. And if he appeals and the case goes to court, then, ladies and gentlemen, what does this court do? 'Cause nobody thought about it. Well, what does he do? He has to take care of this case, that is, he has to, I don't know, interrogate witnesses, etc., etc., and actually pass judgment. And either it's an acquittal sentence, and the committee won't be able to enter it, or the court will say, "Yes, yes, it has to be written down." But it's a statute of limitations. Then how can he handle this case? It's a contradiction in itself. That's not how you solve these cases. Today, what we're going to do now, today, what we're going to do to make this crime, these crimes, if we don't eliminate them, is to radically reduce them. This is a key issue, and this is something that needs to be discussed. As far as past cases are concerned, I must say that they actually go out in public. They go out publicly, we all know who priests were involved, and today there are also matters concerning non-priests, they are discussed publicly and can be said, from the point of view of the further career of these people, that they still have difficulty. Well, maybe not in the Church, because unfortunately there we see some attempt to protect, defend, move, translate, etc., etc. But this is the case of all the faithful who should simply demand it. And this solution, which is proposed here, is simply a solution that simply cannot be explained logically. Except for all the constitutional reservations that are taking place here. So that unlike Senator Radziwill, I will vote against this bill. I'm asking you kindly... Because I know how things end. Namely, this objection does not mean that I am against exposing such cases to counter... On the contrary, I'm definitely for it. I am only opposed to such laws, such a mode of making these laws, I am against laws which actually lead to the application of a vicious circle. Maybe one more point at the end. Namely, if such a committee... By the way, if such a committee were to be appointed, it should have an absolutely unpolitical character. I would like to point out that even the preliminary decision of this committee on any matter may have some public effect. Well, this committee is called by the Sejm, the Senate, the President, the Prime Minister and someone else. And when it comes to... Yeah, there's a lock pick. The Sejm and the Senate appoint by a majority of 3/5 votes, but immediately after that, there is a point that says that if there is no 3/5, then they call by a simple majority. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is ridiculous simply. This body should be absolutely independent of politicians. Perhaps the members of this committee should, for example, be appointed. judges' and lawyers' organisations, persons outside the political bodies. Because as it is... Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to scare anybody, but after the incident at the Ministry of Justice, after the organized helium that took place there, I would be really very careful in setting up this kind of committee, whose decision may not necessarily be applied to someone who was once an active paedophile. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u87	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on personal income tax and the Act amending the Act on personal income tax and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1291, and the report of the Commission In print No 1291 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u88	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! Today, the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance gave its opinion on this law. This law introduces 2 amendments. The first point is the reduction of PIT from 18% to 17%. We are talking here about a reduction in the tax rate while maintaining the existing tax thresholds. This is the first shift. The second change, which is also important, important and beneficial for taxpayers, is an increase in the cost of employees' income. Today this cost of obtaining income is 111 PLN 25 gr per month. From 1 October it will be 250 PLN, i.e. by more than 100% This cost of obtaining revenue will increase, of course, for an employee who has one place of employment in a given locality. These thresholds are appropriately higher in other situations. We raise this cost from the amount of PLN 1 000 335 to PLN 3 000 per year, which is generally lower taxes because people will earn more net. As these changes occur exceptionally during the tax year, on 1 October, this tax scale will be 17.75% this year. Well, that's because we're down 1%. For three quarters, it was 18%. And in the fourth quarter it's going to be 17%. With an annual average, it's going to be 17.75%. and from next year this rate will be 17%. At the meeting of the committee, colleagues from the Platform asked how this reduction would affect the finances of local governments. The representative of the Ministry of Finance informed that there is no formal opinion of the Joint Government and Local Government Commission on this law, but the reduction of tax revenue in the full tax year, i.e. next year, will be over 4 billion. But at the same time the Minister explained that economic growth and income from CIT and PIT taxes 100% They will compensate for this loss to local governments. The Minister quoted data saying that only this year the increase in income from PIT is within the limits - I think, because I say this from memory - 12% , and with CIT it's probably within 20%. As a result, there are also increased influences of local government units. As we predicted, we are lowering these taxes. This year taxpayers will gain: if they earn a minimum salary, 120 zł; if the national average is 180. Next year it will be for employees who earn a minimum salary, less than 500 PLN - that will remain in their pocket - and for those who earn a national average - over 700 PLN. These are the real consequences of this regulation. As a result of good fiscal and economic situation, we can now reduce taxes for 25 million Poles. Thank you. Thank you... And, of course, the committee unanimously recommends that this law be adopted without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u89	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Do any of you have that question? No. Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Mr Tadeusz Kościński, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, is with us today. Would the Minister like to speak? You're welcome, Minister. I'd like to invite you to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u90	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present a bill for which there are over 25 million PIT taxpayers, including some 13 million employees. The Act provides for a reduction in the lowest tax rate of PIT. The current rate of 18% will be replaced by 17% which will apply to revenue not exceeding PLN 85 000 528. The reduction will benefit all taxpayers who account on a tax scale, namely employees, pensioners, contractors, as well as traders who have not chosen flat-rate taxation either at a preferential rate of 19 percent. In addition, the Act provides for a more than double increase in flat-rate revenue costs for employees. Their application affects the final amount of taxable income, which means that the higher the costs, the lower the tax the employee pays. The current cost of obtaining revenue for employees is the same as 10 years ago. The change in the cost of obtaining income is therefore very desirable from the point of view of people working on the job, because today, a worker who lives in the same village where his workplace is located is entitled to a cost of just PLN 111 per month. Exactly: 111 zł 25. That is a maximum of PLN 1 thousand 335 for the entire tax year. And an employee commuting from another village can deduct costs of less than PLN 140 per month. Exactly: 139 zł 6 gr. This is not more than PLN 1 thousand 668 per year. Not much higher is the annual cost limits for a number of workers. The adoption of the measures contained in the Act will change this situation in favour of the employees. After the change, the basic cost of obtaining income will be PLN 250 per month and PLN 300 for commuters. On a yearly basis, these costs will amount to PLN 3 000 and PLN 3 000 600 respectively. In the case of workers working on several posts, annual limits will increase to PLN 4 000 500, respectively, if the work is carried out in the same village, and to PLN 5 000 400 for commuters. The Act assumes that the proposed amendments will enter into force on 1 October this year, which means that since October this year the PIT advances are to be taken into account for the reduction of the tax rate from 18% to 17%. At the same time, given that the regulations in question are to enter into force on 1 October this year, and thus the old rate will apply for 3/4 of this year, i.e. 18% , and for 1/4 years, the new rate is 17% , a transitional rate of 17,75% is foreseen for the annual accounts of revenue generated in 2019 , i.e. reduced by 1/4 percentage points compared to the current one. For a 1 year transitional rate of 17,75% The free amount has been properly calibrated so that its maximum value is, as at present, 8 thousand zlotys and has decreased with the increase in income, reaching a zero value at revenues of 120 thousand zlotys and higher. The relevant regulation contains transitional provisions, which further regulate the collection of tax advances for the months from October to December of this year. According to these regulations, the paying agent, e.g. Workstations, pension bodies and contractors, calculating the advance for the months from October to December, will be instead of the rate 18% applied a rate of 17% unless the taxpayer asks the payer to collect a higher advance. Rate 17% taxpayers who are not, however, entrepreneurs will also be required to pay the tax advances themselves, e.g. getting paid abroad. On the other hand, persons engaged in economic activities or special agricultural production departments, because the tax advances are calculated on an increasing basis, i.e. taking into account revenue and advances paid from the beginning of the tax year, i.e. revenue for the months from January to September to which the rate of 18% applies , advances for the months from October to December will be calculated by applying a transitional penalty for the current year, i.e. at a rate of 17.7%. This will avoid tax subsidies in the annual accounts. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the benefits of these changes will already be felt by taxpayers during this year. By applying a lower rate of tax to the current and higher cost of income in calculating the advance, more money will remain in their pockets for current expenses, investments or savings. It is estimated that in the case of taxable persons who obtain income from work, the profit for the reduction of the tax rate from 18% to 17% and an increase in the cost of income will be PLN 472 per year, with a salary arising at the level of minimum wage, i.e. PLN 2 000 250 per month, and PLN 732 at the level of the forecast for the current year of the average monthly gross salary in the national economy, i.e. 4,000 765 zlotys. In total, about PLN 9.7 billion will remain in the pocket of beneficiaries of these changes per year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u91	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators can report no longer than a minute's time to the Minister. You're welcome. Mr. Senator... Don't run, Minister. Minister, stay because there are questions for you. Oh, I'm sorry. Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u92	Minister, that amount at the end you mentioned, 9.7 billion, that's the total annual cost of this operation. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u93	Yeah, a year.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u94	Total cost. And it is divided into costs incurred by the state budget and by local governments. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u95	That's right. Good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u96	Thank you very much. Any more questions? I'd like to speak up. Good. Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Marek Borowski signed up for the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u97	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I'll probably be the exception here because I don't support this bill. I do not support this law because of the fact that the tax reductions, although in general they are well received and it can be said that from an economic point of view they can have a positive effect However, it should be undertaken when social needs, especially those which implement the state budget, are met at an approximately equal level, in an appropriate manner. Taxation, after all, covers many different budget expenditures that serve citizens. So it is not that the tax reduction for citizens is good and only good, and the increase is bad and purely bad. We know that if money from increased taxes is earmarked for important social purposes, and so for health care, education, infrastructure, and it will be spent in the right way, without any waste, then the results will, of course, be appreciated by citizens. It also works the other way. In this case the Minister was kind to say that 25 million Poles are waiting for this reduction. I doubt that very much. I doubt that very much. With the amount that the Minister has mentioned, that is PLN 2 000 250 minimum wage - this is what a few million people in Poland currently earn. This monthly benefit is 40 PLN. I very much doubt that this is particularly noticeable, and it is certainly not that everyone is waiting for this. Those who earn PLN 4,000 700 and have an average, relatively high salary will have a benefit of PLN 60. So please do not say that this is something that will really save or satisfy Poles today. However, Poles are definitely not satisfied with the situation in health care, they are definitely not satisfied with the situation in education. In this arrangement, where tens of billions of zlotys are missing A few dozen billion only for these 2 purposes, because I'm already skipping other areas where there is either collapse, or a very dramatic situation of giving money to citizens from the budget means that these areas will continue to be what they are. In my opinion, the 10 billion zlotys, the 9.7 you listed... that 10 billion zlotys could have really very positive effects in one of these two areas if you focused them on specific actions. Well, this action, which is a tax reduction of 1 percentage point and the cost of obtaining income, which very little affects wages, because they are not deducted directly from tax, but are deducted from income... Well, from the point of view of meeting social needs, the effect is far less than if these funds were devoted to the objectives I have said. Therefore, my opposition does not concern a reduction in the tax, but it is an opposition to a specific budget policy, which for four years, with the accompaniment of some self-absorbedness, led to the fact that today in hospital emergency units people are waiting for help after 10 hours, and some people die because of lack of help, because such cases were also. There is also a dramatic situation in education today, and teachers are beginning to run out of teachers, young teachers are not coming to work, older teachers are very happy to retire because they cannot work in this atmosphere. In these two key areas, which determine the state of society, this government does not have a good answer and lowers taxes, gives up the budgetary revenue that should be earmarked for those purposes. And that's why I'm voting against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u98	Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Frost.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u99	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senators and gentlemen of the Senators! I thought, in the case, it would seem, so uncontroversial law, and even, I would say, a law on which, as the Minister noted, There are millions of Poles waiting because we all want to pay lower taxes... Mr. Marshal Borowski very cleverly, so to speak, has launched a topic of health care, teachers. Well, there are many other areas where we have failed to improve the situation significantly over the last four years, because we have taken on what is most urgent. You had your chance, you were the finance minister. I don't remember, but there's something on my mind that I think you were the minister who raised taxes. And there were no gigantic effects of governments then SLD, and there were problems in health care, and unfortunately, Minister, people were dying in hospitals and SORs. I think it was the emergency rooms at the time, because in such a nomenclature... So it's very unfair to say today that someone died somewhere, someone didn't get help because... such cases happen unfortunately. We're trying to eliminate these cases. Second line. The Lord said, but what is it, we're going to lower it by 1%. And somebody gets $40 more... Well, with your income, with our income, 40 zlotys, maybe it's not a real amount, but for people who make 2,000 250 zlotys... ...brutto. ...brutto This is, I don't know, 1 thousand 700 PLN, 1 thousand 800 PLN, 40 PLN matters, I assure you, Minister and Senator, and Mr. It matters to these people. Marshal... And Mr. Marshal, yes. So I wouldn't do that. What does that mean? This money and this tax reduction... 10 years Poles waited to increase the cost... Exactly. In 2008 this amount of PLN 1 thousand 335... Today it is skyrocketed to PLN 3 000. And now, in general... I know that the Civic Platform, which had a tax reduction in its program, and it increased these taxes, said even: 3 times 15... Well, today no one from the Civic Platform is present here, but they have exposed Marek Borowski, a senator supported by the Civic Platform: well, let a little bit of this PiS and this government criticize even in the event of a tax reduction. Even in a situation where we take action, it would seem that non-controversial and pro-social actions are reduced taxes. And, Mr. Marshal, let me tell you something else, more as Minister of Finance, next year will be a balanced budget. Do you remember the deficit when you were Minister of Finance? Yes. And your mentor or, I don't know... Leszek Balcerowicz... About such economic indicators as the government of Mateusz Morawiecki, Balcerowicz probably read or wrote about them that they can be achieved. And we're doing it today. We're giving social transfers today, we're fulfilling basic... what we're doing... Today we are praised by the United States for meeting NATO-based requirements in terms of defence budget indicators. And we were also able to balance the budget. And we were able to do it in 2019. In the full year it will continue to reduce taxes in 2020. We have economic growth, German newspapers write about a small economic miracle in Poland. These are the effects of four years of these governments, macroeconomic policy, which is led by Mateusz Morawiecki. As a result of driving, among others. Today, these 25 million taxpayers can be reduced by this good economic policy. And I assure you, Marshal Borowski: yes, Poles are waiting for tax cuts. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u100	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Konstanta Radziwiłł.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u101	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I must say that I thought that in this slightly sleepy atmosphere, in a situation where there is almost no one on this side of the Senate, there would be no discussion at all, and that it would actually be as obvious as raising the cost of income and tax reduction, it is difficult to discuss. But it turns out there are opponents. There are opponents not only in this room, but also outside of it, because they volunteered for example. some local government officials say that they will have less taxes and less to spend. Well, I'd like to express not only the amazement that there might be anyone at all who says no, no, tax cuts are bad... Because raising the cost of income, ladies and gentlemen, is not a favor from the state. The cost of obtaining income is somehow calculated there and it is quite obvious that since 2008 these costs have simply increased, it is clear, and that it should be reflected in the calculation of income to tax should actually happen, you can say, on the basis of some indexation, right? If this has not happened in more than 10 years, it is high time it happened now, no matter how it translates in absolute numbers into benefits for citizens. It is simply a matter of the fact that since it is assumed that there is such a thing as the cost of obtaining income, it must be referred to reality rather than to some reality from many years ago. And it seems that discussing it at all, discussing it is some kind of indecency. And when it comes to taxes, well, I'm not an economist, but I've heard somewhere that when taxes are reduced, it doesn't necessarily have to be negative when it comes to the budget. It really does not need to be an economic specialist to know that there is also a rule that when taxes are lower, people pay them more widely, do not hide income, etc., etc., and the final effect can be beneficial for the budget, and certainly beneficial for the economic activity of people and for the economy in general. So it seems that it really... Well, I'm really gonna be surprised and surprised if there are votes against in the vote on this bill. It would be good for all voters to see those who vote against tax reduction in Poland, against something that some have announced and have failed to implement, others have announced and implemented, but in general everyone's agreement is around it. Really, this atmosphere of some reluctance to do so simply surprises me and amazes me. Of course, I would be very pleased to cast my vote in favour of this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]] Mrs. Marshal, may I?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u102	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u103	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Well, Senator Froze's personal tours kind of amused me, I'll be honest with you. You're the young man. You don't remember certain things. But, sir, when I was Minister of Finance, inflation was 100%. We had to deal with a very serious situation, with serious foreign debt and all the measures that were being taken at the time, which led to a positive result, economic growth and an increase of 7% in 1995 and 1996. So I would suggest that you formulate these historical considerations more carefully. As for the fundamental matter referred to here, I would really ask you not to use such demagogic arguments that everyone is waiting, enjoying and so on. Well, let's lower it even further. Why only 1% ? Maybe 5%. ? Ladies and gentlemen, after all... The time will come, the time will come. Yeah, well, sure, sure. In four years, it didn't come... Senator Frost or Senator Radziwiłł talked about the fact that there are cases that, after all, in health care... I don't suspect Senator Radziwilla knows what's going on in health care, but... I didn't say that. Mr. Marshal! Don't put what I didn't say in my mouth. Well, it was Senator Frost who said so. It was Senator Frost who said that there were cases of what was going on and so on. Senator, you're just insulting and mocking the millions of people who are using health care today. You don't know what's going on out there, you just live in a bubble. And Minister Szumowski cheats residents. We all remember exactly what the deal was. The agreement was that the share of health expenditure vis-à-vis GDP would grow annually, in relation to each GDP, and not to the 2017 GDP, as Minister Szumowski said, which actually meant a decrease rather than an increase. Then don't say such things. I mean, tax policy... Why collect taxes? Well, you have to ask yourself this question: why do you collect taxes? That's why he collects to finance all those activities that individual people can't finance. For this. Yeah, rich people can do a lot, they can even put their own police in front of the house, but 70, 80%. Poles cannot finance certain things themselves, especially when they have a sudden need for it. And that's why you collect taxes. And if these needs are not properly met, tax reduction is a wrong policy. When they were properly realized Yes, it is. But health care is made up of health contributions. Quiet, please. Health care is funded by contributions... Well, there you go, then, either you have to raise the premium, or you have to finance it from the budget. It's one of two. But if you don't do it, we have a situation like today, and 10 billion zlotys, yes, will go into the pocket of citizens, but they won't buy health for it, and they won't buy good education either. And that's the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u104	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm announcing a recess until 13.10. Which one? Till 13.10. Votes. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 53 to 13 minutes 11]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u105	I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators! I would like to inform you that the next eighty-fifth meeting is scheduled to be held on 25, 26 and 27 September 2019. The order of business of this meeting will be provided to you by electronic means. We return to the second agenda: the law on the national census of population and housing in 2021. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration has presented a draft resolution in which it proposes the adoption of this law without amendment. Senatski Print No 1285 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 64 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 8]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the Act on the National census of Population and Housing in 2021. We are returning to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Personal Income Tax Act. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances and the Committee on Infrastructure have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendment. Senatski Print No 1284 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 64 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 9]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on personal income tax. We are returning to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Investment Act for External Ports. The Infrastructure Commission has presented a draft resolution requesting the adoption of this law without amendment. Senatski Print No 1283 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 64 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 10]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Investment Act for External Ports. We are returning to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws to improve the process of spending funds under direct support schemes and the activities covered by the integrated management and control system. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of this law without amendment. Senatski Print No 1289 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 64 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 11]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending certain laws in order to improve the process of spending funds under direct support schemes and within the framework of activities covered by the integrated management and control system. We would like to refer to item 9 of the agenda: the Law on the State Commission on the investigation of acts against sexual liberty and morals against a minor under the age of 15. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions presented a draft resolution in which it proposed that this law be adopted without amendment. Senatski Print No 1290 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 62 senators voted, 53 votes against, 3 against, 6 abstentions. [[Voting No 12]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the State Commission on the investigation of acts against sexual liberty and customs towards a minor under the age of 15. We return to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on personal income tax and the Act amending the Act on personal income tax and certain other laws. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of a law without amendment. Senatski Print No 1291 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 63 senators voted against, 62 for, 1 against. [[Voting No 13]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on personal income tax and the Act amending the Act on personal income tax and certain other laws. I would like to inform you that the agenda of the 80th Senate meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Would any of your senators like to speak? Is anybody checking in? Senator Antoni Szymanski. You're welcome. One person, right? Yes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u106	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to make a statement concerning Fr. Felix Bolt, the clergyman, the senator, the steadfast Kociewiak. As a senator representing Kociewa in the Senate of the Republic of Poland, I would like to remind the character of Felix Bolt: a clergyman, a senator, a steadfast Kociewiak. Felix Bolt was born on 7 January 1864 in Barłożno, Kociewi. His parents, Joseph and Catherine, were wealthy farmers. Taking care of his son's education, they sent him to the prestigious Collegium Marianum in Pelplin, followed by the Chelmian High School. From his early years, Felix displayed leadership qualities. As a student of middle school, he became president of a secret Philomac organization, for which he was expelled from school and placed under police supervision. In the high school of Chojnice on 26 February 1887 he gave an external exam of maturity. He then studied in Münster and Munich. Felix Bolt completed his theological studies at the seminary in Pelplina. After receiving priestly ordinations, he began a pastoral mission in several parishes in Pomerania. In Gliwice, Many and Brusa. In Srebrniki near Kowalew Pomorski, after 29 years, he received the nomination and the title of parish priest. In every facility where he was allowed to work, he conducted lively national activity among Poles. In Pomerania he became famous especially as a activist of Polish cooperatives. In Brusa he established cooperation with well-known socialists and landowners, Stanisław and Anna Sikorski, owners of the Great Chełma goods. Based on the Bruno folk bank Sikorski and Fr. Bolt organized a company "Buyer" whose primary purpose was to eliminate the German textile trade. Soon another branch was formed in Śliwice, Many and Zbrew. Fr. Bolt as Vice President of the Buyer was a co-creator of his power. After the success of Fr. Bolt and Sikorski decided to set up another company in Brusa On the basis of a joint stock company with the decisive participation of the buyer under the name "Bazar." In a short time, she had a few branches, including one of them. in Pelplin, Skarszewy, Kartuza and Bytów. Fr. Felix Bolt as the main inventor and organizer of this activity began to be called by the contemporary father of Polish merchantry in Pomerania. At the same time, the priest was involved in the activities of the Society of Scientific Assistance in Chełmno, the Society of People's Readers in Poznań, local folk associations and in the Polish electoral movement. Among the many aspects of the clergy activity is also participation in the uprising in 1912 of companies involved in publishing the Polish press, i.e. the Gazeta Gdańskiej, the Gazeta Chojnicka, as well as the pelpińskie Pilgrim. Fr. Felix Bolt, in addition to socio-economic and journalistic activity, also carried out political activities. In 1913, he was nominated as a Member. During that time he was involved in the activities of the Polish National Council, which was established in Poznań. At the end of World War I Fr. Felix Bolt is politically involved with the enddecia. As one of the leading activists in Pomerania, he worked closely with Roman Dmowski. The cleric's parliamentary activity, not only in regional terms, began with the appointment of a Member of the Legislative Sejm on 8 June 1920. A respectful priest from Pomerania was a member of the Pomeranian Commission and then of the Maritime Commission, as well as a deputy Commissioner in the Polish-Gdansk border committee. During that time, he contributed significantly to the construction of the Bydgoszcz railway line .Gdynia. During the reign of sanation he remained a member of the Pomeranian Sejm of Voivodeship. Between 1922 and 1927 he was a senator for the People's National Union and a member of the Tax and Budget Committee, and in 1930 and 1935 a senator for the National Party. From 11 December 1930 he served as Vice-Marshal of the Senate. After the outbreak of World War II, 24 October 1939, the aged Fr. Felix Bolt was arrested by the Gestapo and imprisoned in Dębie Łaź, where he was sent to the German concentration camp Stutthof by the camp in Chełmno on 21 March 1940. Fr. Felix Bolt, camp number 9234, died on April 7, 1940. He was buried in a cemetery in Gdansk Zaspie. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u107	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's statement is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Mateusz Morawiecki. Dear Prime Minister, Tomorrow will be the 80th anniversary of the outbreak of World War II, the most horrible conflict in human history, which has consumed the greatest number of victims. Unfortunately, the perpetrators of this conflict, Nazi Germany and the Communist Soviet Union, are trying to reinterpret history. From their national memory, as well as from memory and universal history, they try to erase the obvious facts and forget their role as aggressor. At the same time they are brazenly trying to burden at least part of the victim's guilt, share responsibility with the victims, and especially with Poland The first and greatest victim of war. Poland, which suffered proportionally the greatest biological, material and cultural losses. Dear Prime Minister, Poland should fight its attempts to cover its infamy not only passively, by making the lies that appear in the public opinion, e.g. about the alleged Polish concentration camps, but also actively, offensively through the corresponding pro-Polish national historical policy. It is not enough for partial, resorting activities: separately the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, separately the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Ministry of National Education, and for this Institute of National Remembrance, social organizations or foundations, e.g. Polish National Foundation. Occasionality, reactivity of actions affects their low effectiveness. Their effectiveness would significantly improve the formulation of a comprehensive programme of Polish historical policy including the identification of objectives, tasks, means, contractors, methods of checking the results during implementation. And in order for this programme to be implemented effectively, I ask the Prime Minister to consider setting up a special representative for the historical policy of the state at least in the rank of Secretary of State under the direct authority of the Prime Minister and implementing the recommendations and guidelines of the Council of Ministers. With respect, Senator of the Republic of Poland, Jerzy Czerwiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-31-senat-84-2.u109	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the eighty-fourth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The fourth sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of the IXth term of office is closed. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[Meeting adjourned at 13 minutes 26]]
