ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u1	Resume session. I would like to call on Mr Marta Kubiak, Ms Monika Wielichowska, Mr Krystian Jarubas and Mr Sylvester Tulayev to be the secretaries of today's proceedings. The first part of the session will be Mr Marta Kubiak and Mr Sylvester Tulaev. The minutes and the list of speakers will be led by Marta Kubiak and Monika Wielichowska. The group of Members submitted a draft resolution amending the resolution on the appointment and selection of the personal composition of the Extraordinary Commission for the examination of draft electoral laws, print No 3282. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the first reading of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees, print No 3291. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] May I have your attention, please? We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft resolution on amending the resolution on the appointment and selection of the personal composition of the Extraordinary Commission for the examination of draft electoral laws (print No 3282). I ask Mrs Lydia Burzyńska to provide the reasons for the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the applicants a draft resolution amending the resolution on the appointment and selection of the personal composition of the Extraordinary Commission for the examination of draft electoral laws, print No 3282. The draft resolution aims to extend the Commission's action to the possibility of considering the draft law on the rules for determining the order of filling seats of Members of the European Parliament elected in the Republic of Poland for the term of office of 2019.2024, print no 3272. The proposed amendments to the draft resolution boils down to extending the scope of the activities set up by the Extraordinary Commission on 24 November 2017 to consider draft electoral law laws for arrangements for establishing and indicating which of the 52 elected Members of the European Parliament in the Republic of Poland for the 2019 and 2024 term of office would not cover the mandate if the United Kingdom were still a Member State of the Union at the beginning of the term of office. At that time, the number of Members with this function would be 51. Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the applicants, please vote in favour of extending the scope of the activities of the committee mentioned by me. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u3	Thank you, Member. Would any of you like to speak on the proposal? No one's checking in. I propose that the Sejm proceed immediately to the second reading of the draft resolution. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to the second reading of the draft resolution. Would any of you like to speak at this moment? No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft resolution in print 3282 in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 388 Members voted. There were 340 votes against, 46 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution amending the resolution on the appointment and selection of the personal composition of the Extraordinary Commission for the examination of draft electoral laws. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Quiet!]] Quiet, please. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (print No 3291). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 148a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) Would any of you like to take the floor on this? No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print no. 3291, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 393 Members voted. For - 386, against - 1 6 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u4	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Public Finance - hour. 9, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 9.30 a.m., - Infrastructure - hour 9.30 a.m., - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 10, - Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs - hour. 10.30, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 10, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 11, - Extraordinary for the examination of draft electoral law laws - hour. 11, - Health-- hour. 13, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 14, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 15, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 16, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 17, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 20. The following parliamentary teams will also be held today: - Parliamentary Team - break up with plastic - hour 10, - National Democratic Parliamentary Team - h.m. 10.30, - Parliamentary Group for: Children - hour 11, - Parliamentary Group for: County Hospitals - hour 12, - Parliamentary Team for Supporting Entrepreneurship and Economic Patriotism - h.m. 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Organisation for Health Protection - h.m. 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Three Seas - hour 16, - Parliamentary Group for: Public Debates - 3 p.m. 6:30.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u5	Thank you very much. High Izbo! Welcome to the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Andrzej Duda. [[Applause]] Welcome to the Senate of the Republic of Poland, Mr Stanisław Karczewski. [[Applause]] I welcome the President of the Council of Ministers of Mr Mateusz Morawiecki and the members of the Council of Ministers. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] I welcome the members of the diplomatic corps who have come to hear the information of the Foreign Minister. [[Applause]] We proceed to the examination of item 17 of the agenda: Information of the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the tasks of Polish foreign policy in 2019. Please take the floor of the Foreign Minister, Mr Jack Chaputowicz, to present the information. [[Applause]] And your fellow Members, please take your seats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! Mr. President! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! High Izbo! Dear members of the Diplomat Corps! Your Excellency! Ladies and gentlemen! For the second time, I took part in the honour of speaking before the High Chamber to present, as Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Poland, information on foreign policy to the Sejm, gathered guests and citizens of the Republic of Poland. The Exposé of the Minister for Foreign Affairs must meet two conditions: be a report on the previous achievements of the government and be an indication of plans for the future, of the defined challenges and the ways in which they will be faced. I submit to the High House and the citizens of the Republic of Poland a report on the achievements of the Government of the United Right in the international arena after the elections in 2015, including the activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in times where I have the honour to direct it, and during the period of responsibility of my predecessor, Mr Witold Waszczykowski. I would also like to emphasise the role of President Andrzej Duda, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and all ministers as co-creators of foreign policy. I also express my gratitude to the Sejm and the Senate of the Republic of Poland for their extremely important and effective activity in parliamentary diplomacy. The cooperation of all institutions involved in foreign policy, the combination of visions, objectives and actions of people who have the most important offices in the country has made Poland an active and listening country, which is increasingly respected by foreign partners. [[Applause]] High Izbo! Today's speech is the 30th speech of the Foreign Minister after the turn of 1980, when the Poles defeated the communist system. It was the Solidarity movement and the result of the parliamentary elections of 4 June 1989 that launched a chain of events that caused the walls to fall between the East and the West. We remember, and let us be proud of it, that it was us Poles who started our march, and basically the march of all Central and Eastern Europe, towards the desired freedom. Without victory, Solidarity would not fall the Berlin Wall and overcome the division of the continent. [[Applause]] June -89 also started the process of restoring Poland's rightful place in the world. Polish diplomacy could begin to pursue deep-rooted European and Atlantic aspirations in our society. We have come a long way from a country dependent on the Soviet Union to one of the pillars of NATO and the co-host of the European project. We would like this year's celebration of the 30th anniversary of June to be an opportunity to show Poland's place in the democratization of Europe. Parliament has a particular role to play, especially the Senate, which was elected in a fully democratic manner on 4 June 1989, and the overwhelming victory of the candidates for Solidarity has shown real social aspirations. We believe that diplomacy is a service to citizens who also actively co-create it. They do so indirectly by choosing the President from among themselves and political representation in Parliament, which sets out the Prime Minister and gives a vote of confidence to the Council of Ministers, and by participating directly in a public debate on foreign policy or, as was the case last year, in a civil consultation on the future of Europe. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Poland's accession to the European Union was the culmination of the efforts of all governments created after the victory of Solidarity in 1989. On 1 May we will celebrate the fifteenth anniversary of this event. Membership in the European Union has become a permanent platform for modernising our country, our economy and our foreign policy. Our citizens and our companies benefit from open borders and the common market. From the budget of the European Union, we receive funds for investments contributing to the country's competitiveness and prosperity. In 2004, our gross domestic product per person accounted for 47% the EU average, and today it is 70%. The government's objective is to match the Union's most developed countries in terms of living standards in the near future, which is conducive to 5% economic growth. 2019 is an extremely important year for the Union. The elections to the European Parliament will start a new institutional cycle in May. This creates the opportunity and the need to reflect on the priorities that we need to pursue. The next week's European Council will launch a discussion on key internal market policy objectives. On 9 May, we will have an informal meeting of Heads of State and Government in Sibiu on the future of the European Union, and in June the European Council will be devoted to the adoption of a new strategic agenda for the European Union. Polish diplomacy will be active in discussions on the future shape of the European Union. On 1 May, the 15th anniversary of the accession of Poland and other countries of the region to the European Union, at the invitation of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, leaders of the Member States that have joined the European Union since 2004 will meet in Warsaw. We want to celebrate together this important anniversary for the citizens of Central Europe and at the same time express the region's opinion on the desirable directions for further development of the European Union. We want to participate actively in the discussion in Sibiu. We are in favour of a strong Union, which is supported by its states and peoples, a Union that contributes to the growth and prosperity of its societies, a Union that supports the levelling of living standards for citizens of all Member States, a Union that fully exploits the potential of the common market and respects the four freedoms - all four freedoms: the movement of goods, capital, people, but also services. Poland will work to build citizens' confidence in the institutions of the European Union. The primary objective must be to restore the Union's full, undoubtedly legitimacy, to regain the confidence of voters in the European institutions and their ability to solve people's real problems. The reform of the EU system should be accompanied by a real democratic mandate under the national electoral process. National parliaments should play a key role, reflecting the wishes of the citizens of our community. The threats to the European project today are also coming from populist movements, both on the left and on the right. We treat these threats as a symptom of the crisis faced by the Union, not as a cause of it. The Union institutions should act on the basis of the competences set out in the Treaties and pursue the objectives which serve all members of the Union. In our view, the controversy is also raised by proposals to extend the scope of cases in which EU decisions are taken on the basis of a majority vote. Firstly, they show that there is no action to seek compromise and that unity should be the basis for the European Union's action. Many Member States believe that not all of them are given equal attention on key issues. The thought of a large part of the British people who were in favour of leaving the European Union was probably based on the belief that the decisions taken in Brussels were not affected. Secondly, the EU's voting system favours the largest Member States and, after the brexite, the weight of the largest countries will increase even more. At the time of the implementation of this system, it was not foreseen that a large Member State such as the United Kingdom would leave the Union, which would in principle affect the possibility of building coalitions in the Council. As a result, Brexit will weaken the Community's decision-making method and make it difficult for the European Commission to balance the interests of large and smaller countries. High Seym! The European Union is not only a platform for cooperation between the Member States, but also a forum for absolving their interests. The ability to pursue its interests is a measure of the maturity of the state. Taking care of Europe's future, we are also seeking Poland's rations. We are actively working to strengthen the global competitiveness of the European economy. Together with 16 other Member States, we are calling for the strengthening of the single market and European digital policy, among others. by deepening the integration of the services sector and removing barriers in the common market. We also propose building an environment that supports digital transformation, including the strong position of the European Union in the area of artificial intelligence, intelligence and the data-based economy. We will seek to implement these demands. The threat to the European Union is protectionism, which hits businesses and workers in the EU labour market. Our vision of the European Union also envisages an effective fight against tax fraud, which is a serious challenge for many Member States. Our partners appreciate the Polish government's efforts to reduce the VAT gap. Recognizing the scale and challenges of this phenomenon, we are happy to share our experience and solutions with the Member States and institutions of the European Union, including. through expert seminars. The last seminars were held in Paris and Brussels. A major challenge for the European Union and its Member States is Brexit. The negotiated exit agreement of the United Kingdom from the European Union guarantees citizens' rights, British contributions to the budget of the European Union and provides certainty to businesses in the form of a transitional period. Thanks to the active attitude of Poland, the European Union has adopted solutions allowing Polish road and air guides to access the British market. In the case of brexitu without agreement, the British Government presented a plan to protect the citizens of the European Union, including Poles, while the Polish government adopted a package of legislative solutions protecting the rights of the British people living in our country. However, we are in the position that brexit without a contract is the worst case scenario, so we will be looking for solutions that will allow us to gain acceptance for the negotiated agreement. The shape of the future EU budget will be determined in a new political agreement in the European Parliament and in the new composition of the European Commission. We are opposed to a reduction in the EU budget and to maintaining a high level of funding for cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy. We would like to remind you that the transfer of EU funds is compensation for opening up weaker economies to competition in stronger economies, from which the latter have serious benefits. The lack of resources after the brexite should be compensated by the abandonment of the budget discounts and the increase in the contributions of the other Member States. Poland declares its willingness to increase our contribution accordingly. The Commission's proposal to make the payment of funds from the budget of the Communities conditional on the state of the rule of law currently under review in the countries to which they are allocated is unacceptable. The payment of these funds is a treaty commitment. The Commission's proposal strikes a lack of precision in the criteria for assessing the rule of law, a strongly reduced threshold for blocking decisions and, above all, a lack of legal basis for such action. Member States have not given the European Commission or the strict body to the political body, the Council, the right to judge, but only the power to refer cases to the Court of Justice of the European Union. It should also be stressed that our reservations are largely shared by the Council's lawyers who are watching over the Brussels legislative process. This position was reflected in the legal opinion of the Council Legal Service of 25 October. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Today's world faces unprecedented challenges that make it more unstable and unpredictable than in the past decades. The order of the world based on the prevailing belief that democracy is the best form of governance, human rights are universal and natural, and international law should form the basis of international relations, it is being systematically eradicated. The use of military force has once again become a tool for changing national borders. In this situation, the strong and consistently modernised Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland are an essential instrument for defending our borders and building our allied credibility, while diplomacy is designed to develop the most advantageous international architecture for Polish security. This month we celebrate the 20th anniversary of Poland's NATO membership. Pulling the Polish flag to the mast at the headquarters of the Alliance symbolized Poland's return to its rightful place in Europe and opened a new era with regard to our security. The strengthening of NATO's military presence on the eastern flank of the North Atlantic Alliance, including particularly the strengthening of military cooperation between Poland and the United States, remains our priority. We cooperate in this respect with a group of nine countries of our region in the Bucharest format. The final example of the joint coordinated vote of the countries of the region on risk assessment and strengthening the security of the eastern flank is the fourth. already meeting the heads of state of the Bucharest format on 28 February this year. in Košice. We particularly want to strengthen the capabilities of the Alliance's deterrent and defence. Our quest to become the core of NATO and US military presence in our region is real. NATO troops, American soldiers, but also British, Romanian and Croatian troops are stationed in our country. In Elbląg, a multinational command was established to coordinate the Alliance's operations on its eastern flank. The American armored crew is stationed in a rotating and continuous manner in western Poland. Another year is underway, coordinated by the Ministry of National Defence, work on the creation of an anti-missile base in Redzików as a permanent base of U.S. troops of strategic importance. The project of strengthening the military presence of the United States in Poland is taking shape in the ongoing bilateral negotiations. Increasing military mobility remains an important task. Mass Russian maneuvers at the eastern borders of NATO require rapid formation of allied troops that can ensure balance of forces in the region. This also requires the credibility of military reprisals. Poland has already made a significant reduction in the procedures for granting military transit permits and expects the same from allies. We are in favour of creating within NATO, to say the least, military Schengen. We support NATO's cooperation - the European Union on this issue. Like other members of the North Atlantic Alliance, we believe that the United States' decision to increase its obligations under the Treaty on the Total Elimination of Missiles and Indirect Missiles and the Medium Range, known as the INF Treaty, is a reasonable response to Russia's long-term violation. Poland is in favour of the North Atlantic Alliance maintaining open door policy. The recent signature of the Protocol on the accession of the Republic of North Macedonia is evidence of NATO's credibility in this area. We want to deepen cooperation with NATO partner countries, especially from our immediate environment: Finland, Sweden, Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia, with which we have a far-reaching convergence of assessment of the nature of the threat to international security. We seek the support of the Alliance for our eastern neighbours. The Polish-Lithuanian-Ukrainian brigade is stationed in Lublin. In February this year. It was visited by the presidents of three countries. Together with our allies, we are implementing proposals for the development of NATO-Ukraine Platform. combating hybrid threats, which also aim to strengthen resilience in areas such as critical infrastructure protection, cyber-defense or the fight against terrorism. Last year, from this stand at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, I stressed the need to meet the commitments concerning expenditure on attendance, in accordance with the Natov criteria. Poland already spends 2% on defence GDP. We plan to gradually raise this expenditure to 2.5% in 2030, perhaps earlier. Our efforts in this area are recognised by NATO authorities and allies, as I had the opportunity to see during recent visits to Poland by NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg and US Secretary of State Michael Pompeo. Poland is placed different by these leaders, as well as others, for example to follow. At the same time, we are pragmatic about the development of defence cooperation in the European Union. We want to support the interoperability and compatibility of the armed forces of the European countries and increase the mobility of the army and military equipment. We believe that the European Defence Fund is an opportunity for the Polish arms industry to stimulate innovation and consolidate the presence of the home defence sector in the European R &amp; D cooperation chain. However, the construction of the so-called. The European Union's strategic autonomy cannot, in our view, be at the expense of NATO and the weakening of transatlantic ties. Poland is ready to share responsibility for peace and security both in Europe and beyond in the spirit of 360 degree approach. In order to defend the territory of the North Atlantic Alliance, Polish troops are present within NATO forces in Latvia and Romania, and Polish aircraft patrol the airspace of Lithuania. Poland also helps to combat terrorism, to address the causes of migration outside NATO through actions in Eastern Europe and the Balkans, Iraq and Afghanistan, the Mediterranean and Africa. Due to geographical proximity, training activities of the European Union mission in Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine are essential for us. Since the 1990s Poland has been present in NATO and European Union missions in Kosovo and Bosnia and Herzegovina. We are also engaged in the military activities of the Global Coalition to fight against the so-called. Islamic State and NATO training missions in Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait and Qatar. In Afghanistan, the Polish Armed Forces help to build local security structures. We are also returning to UN peacekeeping operations. In November this year we expect to deploy the Polish contingent in UN UNIFIL operation in Lebanon. We are participating in the EU Operation Sophia in the Mediterranean. Single Polish civilian experts, observers and military staff also work on EU missions in Libya, Mali, Central African Republic, Somalia and off the coast of the Horn of Africa. In doing so, Poland supports the strengthening of the capacity of the Sahel States to combat organised crime and terrorism and to protect borders, including by setting up joint branches, so-called. Joint forces G9 Sahel. To this end, we have provided support in the form of ammunition for the armed forces of the Republic of Chad worth 600 000. Euros. We have also offered G5 Sahel countries training in the fight against improvised explosives. In total, about 1500 Polish soldiers are currently stationed outside the country. I give them from this place my thanks for their difficult service, which is an example of solidarity with our allies, which contributes to maintaining world peace and enhancing the security of our country. [[Applause]] One of the important foreign policy objectives is to ensure energy security, which can only happen by becoming independent of Russian gas supply. We consistently oppose the implementation of the project Nord Stream 2 and we support the European Commission's critical position on this issue. The purpose of the revision of the so-called The gas directive is to include gas pipelines from third countries under European Union law. In 2018, we built a coalition of dozens of countries, which resulted in agreement on the text of the revision of the Directive, which will make it difficult for Gazprom to use its privileged position on the European market. This does not change our negative assessment of Nord Stream 2. A key project for security of supply in the region is the construction of the Baltic Pipe pipeline linking Poland through Denmark, followed by Norway with gas deposits in the North Sea. In December 2018, a bilateral agreement regulating the legal framework for the operation of the pipeline was signed. After completion in October 2022, Baltic Pipe together with LNG Terminal im. President Lech Kaczyński in Świnoujście will provide Poland with real energy independence and will also support the countries of our region. High Izbo! Poland has consistently strengthened its strategic partnership with the United States, a key ally in NATO. We have successfully developed a high-level political dialogue over the last period, which has been illustrated, among others. Visit of US President Donald Trump in Warsaw in July 2017, visit of the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda in Washington in September 2018 and a number of other meetings, including the visit of Vice President Michael Pence and Secretary of State Michael Pompeo in Poland in February this year. The prospects for the development of Polish-American cooperation are outlined in September ub. r. by the presidents of the Republic of Poland and the United States of America the declaration of the protection of freedom and the building of prosperity through the Polish-American strategic partnership. It extends the possibilities of supporting the US administration to deliver our security priorities, including strengthening the US military presence in Poland, cooperation in the energy sector and deepening trade and mutual investment. This will be served by the planned economic visits to the United States even this year, both the President and the Prime Minister of the Republic. Our priorities in relations with the US include extending the presence of US forces in Poland as part of strengthening the Eastern NATO flank, joint projects in the field of security and defence, such as the installation of the US missile defence system in Redzików and cooperation between the air forces of both countries, and the systematic expansion of cooperation both in the area of energy security and in the economic, investment and human interaction. Last year, we launched a strategic energy dialogue with the US to improve the diversification of raw materials supply. New perspectives for the Polish research and innovation sector are opened last year by the Ministry of Science and Higher Education agreement between Poland and the United States on scientific and technical cooperation. This agreement facilitates closer cooperation between scientists of both countries and Polish and American government agencies financing research. Poland's strategic partnership with the United States is a significant part of the transatlantic community. We are convinced that maintaining strong transatlantic ties is in everyone's interest on both sides of the Atlantic. Poland is a strong advocate of dialogue in the context of the different positions of the transatlantic community partners arising from different circumstances, assessments or experiences. In this context also cooperation between Poland and Canada has recently been systematically strengthened in both political and economic relations. Traditionally, security remains at the heart of our dialogue. Polish and Canadian soldiers successfully cooperate in the battalion battle group NATO in Latvia. High Seym! Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Our most important neighbour and partner in the European Union is the Federal Republic of Germany. [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] Germany is the dominant partner in trade for Poland, taking about 28% Polish export. The strong and stable German economy is therefore an essential prerequisite for the economic success of our country and, more broadly, of our region. The total turnover of the Visegrad Group countries with Germany is higher than in the case of similar statistics on the United States, Russia and China respectively. We are therefore a significant market for Germany, which maintains a significant number of jobs in the German economy and, at the same time, a valuable source of labour emigration, which makes a significant contribution to GDP growth behind the Oder. Last year was marked by a lively dialogue with the Germans. There have been meetings of the presidents of both countries and intergovernmental consultations with Heads of Government. My German friend and I have met five times. In a joint statement of 2 November 2018, we set out a framework for cooperation between our countries. Germany is an important country of the European Union and their decisions are crucial to the direction of reform of this organisation. In many areas we have a convergent position, among others. we are in favour of fully respecting the four freedoms in the common market, including the deepening of its digital dimension. In the debate on the future of the Union, we hope for further intensive dialogue. We note with satisfaction that Germany's efforts to transform the euro area show that they do not contribute to increasing the division within the European Union. We also welcome Germany's attitude towards maintaining sanctions imposed on Russia in connection with its aggression in Crimea and Donbass. However, we have different approaches to the project Nord Stream II, which we believe is not intended to ensure the energy security of the European Union. Other challenges in Polish-German relations remain issues related to the rights of Polish and Polish people living in Germany. The positive signal is that this year there will be a meeting, a Polish-German round table dedicated, among others. the situation of the Polish community in Germany. We also see the need to discuss historical issues, which will be promoted by the 80th anniversary of the outbreak of World War II. The issue of reparations for World War II also remains an important topic for discussion between our countries. [[Applause]] France is an important reference point for us in European, political and military and economic matters. The historical picture of friendly France is part of the Polish collective memory still from the era of partitions and the struggle to regain independence. The image of France as a swordsman of the freedom of peoples against absolute monarchies is deeply rooted in Polish culture. In our relationship, we have a great deal in common and we can achieve new goals together. For example, this year we will celebrate the Polish-French year of science, which we hope will contribute to further deepening cooperation between the societies of both countries. However, our visions of the future of the European Union are at present divergent at many points. Our doubts arise from the concept of a multi-speed Europe, protectionist action or the application of double standards to the Member States of the European Union. On the other hand, we welcome France's participation in strengthening the eastern NATO flank, e.g. in Estonia and since last year also in Lithuania. Given the importance of France in Europe and the upcoming elections to the European Parliament, developments in this country will have a significant impact on the future of the European Union, which of course is of vital interest to Poland. In addition to developing bilateral relations with France and Germany, we also want to renew cooperation with both countries within the Weimar Triangle. Our relations with Great Britain are very intense and multifaceted. These are due to close cooperation in the field of security, a strong pro-Atlanticism common to both our countries and a realistic assessment of Russia's policies. The United Kingdom has been one of the three key trading partners of Poland for years and maintaining this state is our goal. We have established various formats of cooperation, which will be maintained after the United Kingdom's withdrawal from the European Union, such as: annual intergovernmental consultations, the last one took place in December. in London, and dialogue in the square of foreign ministers and defence ministers. In turn the Polish-British Belvedere Forum, the third edition of which took place last year, contributes to a better understanding of Polish and British political, non-governmental and expert circles. We have a vision with Italy of the place of sovereign Member States in the future reformed European Union and a firm will to defend the Union's external borders against illegal immigration. This Decision shall enter Italy was Poland's fifth largest trading partner, while the trade in goods is characterised by a negative trade balance. In January Poland was visited by Italian Deputy Prime Minister Matteo Salvini, while Italian Foreign Minister took part in the Middle East conference in Warsaw. Spain and I share a far-reaching convergence of positions with regard to the European Union in terms of two speeds, an ambitious budget and the shape of the common agricultural policy and cohesion policy. Next week a visit of the Spanish Foreign Minister is planned in Warsaw Josep Borrell. We are also counting on the resumption of Polish-Spanish intergovernmental consultations. With the Netherlands, we continue constructive cooperation within the Utrecht Conference, an important forum for discussion on bilateral and EU issues. We have also been in intensive dialogue with Belgium since January this year. also within the framework of the UN Security Council. In both of these countries, President Andrzej Duda will pay a visit to celebrate the 75th anniversary of the liberation of these areas by the Polish army. The relations between Poland and the Holy See are special. This week's visit of the Secretary of State of the Holy See connected with the 100th anniversary of the restoration of diplomatic relations between the Holy See and Poland and the 6th anniversary of the pontificate of His Holiness Pope Francis provides an opportunity to summarize the common achievements and to set new directions for cooperation in the future. Mr. Marshal! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, The development of regional cooperation in Central and Eastern Europe is an important component of the European integration process. The Community of historical experiences, cultural proximity, similar paths of socio-economic development or similar priorities in the European Union are factors that bring the countries of our region closer together. Working together, speaking in a common voice, we're just stronger. The most important regional cooperation forums are the Visegrad Group, the Tri-marriage Initiative and the Bucharest Nine. The Visegrad Group is an important framework for Poland to conduct regional policy and to realise the interests of the Central European region on the international stage. The EU agenda remains broadly understood as the core of V4 political cooperation. In January and June Ub. We have reached a common position on the future of the European Union as set out in the declarations adopted by the Prime Ministers. Our position on migration has been reflected in the decisions of the European Union as a whole. At the same time, we remain open to pragmatic cooperation in V4+ format, in particular with European neighbours. We have reactivated a group of cohesion policy's friends in which we work towards the best possible shape of the multiannual financial framework. The November Summit of the Cohesion Group in Bratislava adopted a joint declaration by 14 countries on the maintenance of existing priorities, i.e. cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy. The Trimar Initiative, a political cooperation mechanism between 12 Central European countries of the European Union in the transport, energy and the digital agenda, launched by the presidents of Poland and Croatia in 2015. We hope that the development of transport and communication links in the Northwest and South will contribute to the deepening of regional cooperation in this part of Europe and the strengthening of the European Union as a whole. The Warsaw Tri-Morza Summit in 2017 provided support to the United States, while the Bucharest Summit last year supported the European institutions and Germany, and also launched the project from the political and conceptual stage to intergovernmental budgetary decisions. The establishment of the Tri-marine Fund, the network of chambers of commerce and industry and the business forum has been initiated. We hope that along with the fourth summit already planned for June this year. In Slovenia, the initiative will gain even greater momentum. Our bilateral relations with the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Hungary are developing dynamically. Close political cooperation at the level of presidents, prime ministers and foreign ministers is complemented by rich business and civil society contacts. Growth in economic turnover and trade are a source of optimism. We will make efforts to keep this positive trend for all of us. Our cooperation with Romania is developing very well. Last year we launched a bilateral intergovernmental consultation, which we will continue this year too. The confirmation of friendly, very good relations with Bulgaria was the February visit of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of this country in Warsaw. We are also deepening the dialogue with the Baltic States. In 2018, President Andrzej Duda visited Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia, while Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki met with his counterparts from these countries twice. With the Baltic countries, we share the assessment of the risks arising from the East. We aim to strengthen transatlantic links and synchronise energy infrastructure. The conditions for the operation of Orlen's investment in Lithuania have also improved. Many expressions of mutual sympathy were accompanied by celebrations of the 100th anniversary of independence of Poland, Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia. In June Ub. The presidents of these countries took part in anniversary celebrations in Warsaw. We also work intensively with Denmark, Sweden, Norway and Finland. Denmark and I have signed an agreement on the delimitation of the sea border and the construction of the Baltic Pipe pipeline, which will enable the transmission of gas from Norwegian deposits. We will work with Sweden to develop the Eastern Partnership on the 10th anniversary of its creation. In two weeks' time, I will be hosting a Swedish Foreign Minister in Warsaw, with whom we will be taking part in a meeting with the Heads of Delegation of the European Union from the region, to begin reflection on the future of this initiative, the Eastern Partnership. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, in turn, will host 10 in June this year. The European Union Strategy Forum for the Baltic Sea Region, to be held - at the level of the prime ministers of these countries - in Gdansk. Poland actively supports the European integration of the Western Balkans. Last year, I visited Northern Macedonia, Albania and Serbia, taking part in the opening of the conference: Kopijski, Tiranska and Belgrad, which aims to pass on Polish experiences from the accession process to the European Union. In May this year. President Andrzej Duda will meet with the presidents of the Western Balkan countries at a conference in Tirana. This year we are chairing the Berlin Process, an initiative aimed at supporting Balkan countries in their efforts to join the European Union. The meeting of Foreign Ministers of the Berlin Process will take place in April this year. in Warsaw, a forum of cities and regions with the participation of development ministers - in June this year in Rzeszów, while the summit of the Western Balkans with the participation of several Heads of Government, Foreign Ministers, Home Affairs and Economy Ministers and representatives of business and civil society - in early July in Poznań. This will be another opportunity to confirm our commitment to stability in Europe and to establish new business contacts by Polish companies. Ladies and gentlemen! The situation in the East is a big challenge for Poland. Russia continues its aggressive policy towards Ukraine, the last sign of which is the conflict in the Kerch Strait area. This is accompanied by an intense information-propagandation war, attempts to destabilise the situation in the Balkans, the maintenance of frozen conflicts in the Caucasus and Transnistria, and acts of terror carried out in the territory of NATO and the European Union Member States. Poland is in favour of a strong response to these actions. Any dialogue with the Russian Federation within the framework of the Euro-Atlantic and European structures should be subject to compliance with the demands of the international community. In particular, we call for the release of Ukrainian seafarers imprisoned by Russia, the return of Ukrainian ships and the restoration of full freedom of navigation between the Azov Sea and the right part of the Black Sea. We also call for the implementation of the resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, adopted also thanks to the involvement of Polish parliamentarians, which calls on Russia to hand over to Poland the wreckage of the government aircraft TU-154. [[Applause]] In Polish-Russian relations we are also looking for areas where joint engagement can help to rebuild the conditions of cooperation. Last year, Polish and Russian experts prepared teaching aids for history teachers. An agreement was reached on the number of transport permits. We've started important talks about diplomatic property. We organized a study visit for representatives of the Russian media. The regions of north-eastern Poland and the Kaliningrad region can count on funding under a cross-border cooperation programme worth almost EUR 60 million. Poland continues to support the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine throughout the country within its internationally recognised borders. [[Applause]] Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine Pawlo Klimkina accepted as part of an official visit to Warsaw in October ub.r. I was the first foreign minister to visit Kiev after the incident in the Kerch Strait. We also recall the humanitarian situation in Crimea and Donbas in the UN by holding open UN Security Council meetings. The state of Polish-Ukrainian relations in practical cooperation is good, and in the field of military cooperation, security policy and energy - even very good. Trade between the two countries increased by 9% in 2018 compared to 2017. Many Ukrainians work in Poland. Our consuls spent nearly 850 thousand last year. visas. Nearly 40 thousand are also educated in Poland. Ukrainian students. We still need to work on the historical dialogue with Ukraine. The condition of the Polish party is to withdraw the ban on the exhumation of the remains of the Polish population, which is incomprehensible to us in the light of civilization standards. We are counting on the right decisions of the Ukrainian party in this regard. The existence of independent Belarus is recognised as the basis for international governance in Central and Eastern Europe, or more widely in Europe. In the current circumstances, our bilateral relations focus on practical neighbourly cooperation. As part of the readiness presented by the Belarusian partners last year, an interministerial agreement was signed on the maintenance of road bridges at the Polish-Belarusian border and a tourist visa-free movement was introduced in the Augustów Canal area, Brest and Grodna and at the Minsk airport. We hope that the Belarusian authorities will return to the issue of a small border traffic agreement which would positively open border regions to even more intensive contacts between local communities. On a regional level, Poland is the leader in the implementation of the European Neighbourhood Instrument programmes. According to the budget criterion, the Polish-Belarus-Ukraine programme 2014-2020 is the largest cross-border programme in the European Union. Poland continues to support the territorial integrity and European and Atlantic ambitions of Georgia. Last year and at the beginning of this year, President Andrzej Duda and the Marshals of the Sejm and Senate, Marek Kuchciński and Stanisław Karczewski visited Tbilisi. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Poland and Georgia was also established. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs organized a joint visit of foreign ministers of Poland, Lithuania, Latvia and the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine in Georgia on the 10th anniversary of the historic visit of President Lech Kaczyński and the leaders of other countries in the region. It is also worth mentioning that since 1 January this year the Polish embassy in Tbilisi serves as NATO contact point. For Poland, the European and Euro-Atlantic integration of Georgia and other countries of the region, which have such ambitions, guarantees long-term stability and economic, political and social development of our partners. In the first half of the year we expect the President of Georgia to visit Warsaw. We support Moldova's pro-European orientation. We declare support for the European Union's greater involvement in political dialogue with Chisinau, leading to the resolution of the frozen conflict in Transnistria. We are also working on further development of dialogue with Azerbaijan and Armenia, carefully observing the political developments in these countries. In addition, Poland has consistently developed contacts with the countries of the South Caucasus and Central Asia, while respecting the principle of respect for territorial integrity and sovereign equality of states and freedom of choice for political and social development. With our partners in this region, we want to build good political relations and develop economic cooperation, among others. by participating in the construction of transport corridors linking the West to the East and expanding the economic presence of our companies in these countries. This will also be served by the planned visit of President Andrzej Duda to Azerbaijan. An effective Eastern policy implemented within the European Union is our strategic objective. As part of this policy, Poland focuses on maintaining a firm and uniform position towards Russia and as ambitious as possible agenda in relations with the Eastern Partnership countries. In 2019 we will engage in the celebration of the 10th anniversary of the Eastern Partnership. We want this year to be the time for your partner's intensive implementation of the commitments made in association agreements and the time for reflection on the future of the Eastern Partnership. We will show the citizens of the European Union that strengthening relations with the East is an investment in the stable future of the whole united Europe. Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! Asia and the Pacific are areas of great opportunity, but also challenges for our diplomacy. Polish policy towards the region and our growing presence in it serve the economic development of the country by acquiring new markets and investments. We highly value Poland's strategic partnerships with Japan, the Republic of Korea and the People's Republic of China. This year there are round anniversaries of Poland's establishment of diplomatic relations with these countries. The celebrations of the 100th anniversary of establishing relations with Japan were inaugurated last year during the visit of the Japanese Minister of Foreign Affairs in Warsaw. This visit was also an opportunity to strengthen economic relations on trade and investment. Japan remains a key Asian investor in Poland. We appreciate the presence of Japanese companies on the Polish market for almost 30 years. Thanks to the entry into force of 1 February this year. The economic partnership between the European Union and Japan has opened up new investment and trade opportunities, including for Polish entrepreneurs. Traditionally, we attach great importance to relations with the Republic of Korea, the largest Asian investor in Poland. The direct investment of this country in our country exceeded 1 billion dollars. The Middle East conference in Warsaw was also an opportunity to conduct bilateral talks with the Korean Minister of Foreign Affairs. We are looking forward to discussions aimed at stabilising the situation in the Korean Peninsula, among others. as a member of the Supervisory Committee of Neutral States. One of our most important partners on the Asian continent remains the People's Republic of China. Trade is a key element of cooperation between Poland and the country. We hope that the activity of Polish economic diplomacy and the activities of the Polish Investment and Trade Agency, which opened its second representative office in China in Chengdu in November 2018, will contribute to improving trade balance in bilateral relations. Development of economic cooperation is also a priority in relations with India. Poland is the largest recipient of Indian investments in Central and Eastern Europe and one of the largest in the European Union. We also work with Southeast Asian countries grouped in ASEAN. Last November, I paid a visit to Indonesia, which is now, since January of this year, a permanent member - together with Poland - the UN Security Council. ASEAN countries express interest in Polish technologies, among others. in the field of agriculture. The first official visit of the President of the Republic to Australia and New Zealand in August last year was connected with the Polish-Australian Economic Forum in Sidney and business talks in Oakland. It is worth mentioning that in 2018. Polish Airlines LOT opened a direct cruise connection on the Warsaw - Singapore route. This year LOT is also expected to launch flights to South Asia, including Delhi. This is conducive to the development of business contacts and increased tourist traffic. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The Middle East and North Africa have been an inflammatory region on the map of the world for many years, a source of threats to international terrorism and uncontrolled migration. However, this area should not only be seen in the context of security challenges but also in the context of potential opportunities, especially in terms of economic cooperation. Since the 2015 parliamentary elections Poland has dynamicised relations with countries in the Middle East and North Africa. High-level visits to Lebanon, Jordan, Israel, Libya, Sudan and the Maghreb have taken place for many years. As a non-permanent member of the Security Council We are actively working to ensure world peace. Our commitment in this area was expressed by a conference on the possibilities of security and stability in the Middle East organised jointly with the United States in February this year in Warsaw. For the first time in many years, the meeting was attended by the Foreign Ministers of the major Arab countries and the Prime Minister of Israel. At the conference we initiated the so-called. Warsaw trial. We hope that this will be the beginning of international dialogue at expert level. [[Voice in the room: You can't see it yet.]] The working groups set up in this process will be able to discuss issues such as counter terrorism, ballistic missile proliferation, maritime and aviation security, energy security, cybersecurity, humanitarian issues and refugee and human rights issues. We also support the efforts of the United States and the international community to resume the peace process in the Middle East. We are in favour of solutions to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict based on the two-state model of an independent and democratic Palestine, while guaranteeing Israel's security interests. As regards relations with Israel, we believe that the signing of the Joint Declaration of Prime Ministers in June 2018 closes last year's dispute about the amendment of the IPN Act. In this context, with sadness, we note with confusion that some Israeli politicians still face unfair accusations against Poland and Poles. Unfortunately, this is also the result of many years of neglect in the field of historical policy and the lack of adequate responses to slandering the image of our country in the world, which led to the strengthening of false stereotypes. The adoption by Polish state institutions and diplomacy of energetic steps, energetic actions in the field of dissemination of knowledge about Poland's history already brings the first tangible results. We are pleased that in the face of these accusations our position was supported by influential Jewish environments and high representatives of American diplomacy, and the American and Israeli media presented the problem of Polish-Jewish relations during World War II in a more balanced way, much more balanced than last year. With regard to the future of Polish-Israeli relations, I would like to stress at the same time that we are ready to continue our cooperation with Israel, including discussions on difficult topics related to our common history. However, we do not accept statements that duplicate false stereotypes, using a simplified vision of the fate of both nations. Our dialogue should be based on openness, mutual understanding and respect for the right of the other party. [[Applause]] High Seym! The Warsaw conference helped to strengthen our relations with the Arab Peninsula countries. We will continue and use this cooperation in a bilateral political and economic dimension as well as in the context of regional and global security efforts. In the face of a conflict in Syria, Poland supports actions aimed at real political change, in line with UN Security Council Resolution 2254, under the so-called "Secretary'. the Geneva Process, including the UN Special Envoy to set up a Constitutional Commission and conduct free and democratic elections in Syria. We also support international efforts to return to Yemen's peace talks. A good signal is the agreement on the suspension of fire adopted in December Ub. r. in Swedish Rimbo. At the same time, we declare humanitarian support, practical humanitarian and financial support to the Yemeni civilian population. It is in the interest of the international community to prevent proliferation of nuclear weapons in the Middle East region. In a situation of divergence between the United States and the European Union on how to deal with threats in the Middle East, we are invariably in favour of maintaining transatlantic unity. At the same time Poland's relations with Iran should be built on principles of friendship and mutual respect. Poland is actively involved in stabilization of so-called. the southern neighbourhood of the European Union. The government of the Republic of Poland has allocated, among others, EUR 10 million to finance together with partners from the Visegrad Group of the second phase of the Integrated Border Management Project of Libya. We also maintain our support for the reconstruction, reconstruction and democratisation of Iraq. We are planning to intensify political dialogue and economic relations with the Maghreb countries and Egypt, which also includes migration policy and the exchange of experience in the fight against terrorism and radicalism. Sub-Saharan Africa is a region with great potential, so we are increasing the number of Polish diplomatic posts there. Last year I officially opened two of them in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania and Dakar, Senegal. On the other hand, a visiting ambassador was appointed in Khartoum, Sudan. The Polish Investment and Trade Agency opens other foreign trade offices in the region, among others. Kenya, Nigeria and Senegal. We will also develop cooperation in the field of mining, agriculture and services. This year's visits to Cameroon, Nigeria, Rwanda, Uganda and Senegal with members of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' management will include a significant economic component. The flagship development project of Poland on the African continent is to help create a maritime academy in Namibia, Angola. High Seym! In relations with Latin America, the challenge of the last three years has been to create favourable conditions for a comprehensive development of cooperation, particularly in the economic sphere. The basis for optimism is the stable economic and social situation in the leading countries of this continent, the progressive liberalisation of trade with the European Union and the strong and well-established presence of Polonia. We reversed the earlier trend when it comes to closing Polish delegations in the region. The opening in January 2018 of Panama facilities was positive, among others. Polish pilgrims present in this country on World Youth Day. We strive to develop relations with Mexico on the basis of a declaration signed by the presidents in April 2017. PAIH's first foreign sales office was opened in the capital city of Mexico. We have also ensured a Polish presence in the Pacific Alliance: Mexico, Colombia, Peru and Chile, currently the most dynamicly developing block in the region, aiming to strengthen our cooperation in the field of trade and investment. We have restored the political and economic dialogue between Polish and Brazilian foreign affairs. On 1 January of this year, I attended the ceremony of the oath of President Jaira Bolsonaro, which was also an opportunity for bilateral talks. In turn, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Brazil participated in the Middle East conference in Warsaw. There is a good and even very good climate for strengthening cooperation between our countries. We have been actively involved in shaping the EU's policy towards Latin America and the Caribbean, including on such difficult issues as the worsening political, economic and humanitarian crisis in Venezuela. Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, This Decision shall enter Poland has been engaged effectively in multilateral cooperation, particularly within the UN Security Council and as part of the Human Rights Council election campaign. The priority of Poland in the Security Council, which is the promotion of international law, was implemented in the framework of an open high-level debate chaired by President Andrzej Duda, in the framework of meetings in the Aria formula on relations between the International Criminal Tribunal and the Security Council and on increasing the effectiveness of preventing international crimes. In 2018 and early 2019 we organised or co-organised a series of meetings devoted to the situation of civilians in armed conflicts, the consequences of climate change for international peace and security and situations in different countries, including. Ukraine and Syria. In 2018, we chaired a preparatory committee for a future review conference on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons - so-called. the NPT. We also directed the work of the Hague Code of Conduct against ballistic missile proliferation. We are in favour of strengthening the effectiveness of both these regimes by increasing transparency and strengthening dialogue between nuclear weapons countries and their allies. In December Ub. Poland hosted the COP24 climate conference for the third time. Thanks to the accepted so-called. The Katowice package, which is a set of guidelines for the implementation of the Paris Agreement, the capital of Upper Silesia has permanently entered into the dictionary of global climate policy. Katowice hosted 30,000. delegates from all over the world, which was an opportunity to promote Silesia and Poland as an open and modern country, which cultivates historical and natural heritage, as well as to promote Polish solutions in terms of energy consumption and pollutant emissions. [[Applause]] I would like to thank President Andrzej Duda, Minister Henryk Kowalczyk, Chairman of the COP24 Summit for Michael Kurtyka and all those involved in the organisation of this event. Thanks to you, we have achieved a substantive and organizational success, which has been recognised and appreciated in the world. [[Applause]] Poland supports human rights defenders and contacts between people working for democratic change in the world. During the 7th Warsaw Dialogue for Democracy we hosted dozens of representatives of civil society from around the world. The Minister of Foreign Affairs Pro Dignitate Humana was awarded last year to Ukrainian director Ołeh Senkow in recognition of his merits in the field of human rights protection. [[Applause]] In March of this year, this month, Poland was admitted to the International Group for Freedom of Religion and Confession, which aims to strengthen cooperation and coordination on promoting freedom of religion. We regard this as a recognition for our active efforts to protect the rights of persons belonging to religious minorities, including Christians. Poland was also elected to the Intergovernmental Committee. Protection of Unesco's Inmaterial Cultural Heritage for the term of 2018.202022 and for the third time in a row to the Council of the International Telecommunications Union for the years 2019 to 2022. In addition, a representative of Poland became a member of the UN International Civil Service Commission for the term of 2019.202022. In turn the Minister of Sport and Tourism Witold Bianka is a candidate for the whole of Europe as president of the World Anti-Doping Agency - WADA. The Ministry shall coordinate diplomatic efforts to obtain the support of non-European electors in the WADA elections which will take place in May this year. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Since November 2015, since the United Right, Poland has signed 215 bilateral agreements with more than 60 countries and 14 multilateral agreements. At the same time 223 bilateral agreements concluded with more than 70 countries entered into force. Poland has also become a party to 50 multilateral agreements. Noteworthy is the signed November 19th Ub. r. Polish-Danish delimitation agreement located south of Bornholm so-called. The gray area. The aim of the agreement is to put an end to more than 40 years of dispute and ensure legal certainty in the Baltic Sea region. As a result of the negotiations, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs achieved significantly better results than in the case of similar solutions from other countries in the region. In agreement with the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology, we conclude investment protection agreements, so-called. BIT agreements which have been declared incompatible with Union law by the Court of Justice of the European Union. A noticeable trend is also the decrease in the number of complaints against Poland to the European Court of Human Rights. In 2018, 1941 new complaints were submitted, 120 less than the year before. In comparison, 5768 new complaints were brought before the Court in Strasbourg in 2010. As a result of these trends, the number of new complaints against Poland in relation to the number of inhabitants remained below the European average last year. At the same time, we take care to enforce the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. At the end of last year, a record low level of 100 judgments suspended in the enforcement procedure was reached. In comparison, 313 decisions were not executed in 2015 and 924 in 2011. We will be actively involved in the celebration of the 70th anniversary of the Council of Europe. The General Secretary of this organization Thorbjörn Jagland will pay a visit to Warsaw next week. The public is concerned about the JUST Act and the post-war restitution of property. It should be made clear that this law, as part of the internal American legislation, does not give rise to any obligations for other countries, in particular it does not constitute a legal basis for making legal claims on property in Poland which was taken away by Nazi Germany or by Soviet Russia during World War II and by the communist authorities after it was completed. Potential claims of entitled persons, irrespective of their nationality, shall be dealt with in court or administrative proceedings in accordance with the rules and procedures provided for in the Polish legal system on general principles. High Seym! Another important goal of diplomacy is to support the economic development of Poland. The reason for its satisfaction is that according to the World Bank ranking Poland is currently the 23rd largest economy in the world, and our above average economic growth can result in a promotion of up to two positions in the next edition of the compilation. Through an extensive network of facilities, we provide our companies with information on the specificities of individual markets and their legal and financial conditions. In 2018, our embassies and consulates provided information or intervened in favour of 4,000. Polish companies, mostly in Europe, where 80% are located Polish export. There is also increasing activity in other regions, in Asia. More than 500 companies, 490 in the Commonwealth of Independent States, 480 in the African and Middle East, and 340 in the Americas, benefited from our help. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs also offers permanent support for the Polish defence industry. We encourage companies in this sector to participate in multinational research projects, development programmes and initiatives to acquire military capabilities using the European Defence Fund. The Polish Investment and Trade Agency opens up other foreign trade offices. By the end of this year, the number will reach 70, 22 of which will be in Asia, 13 in America, 9 in Africa, remaining in Europe. A significant part of these offices have already achieved full operational capacity. We also strive to increase the participation of Polish companies in tenders and projects of international organizations. In June 2019 we will organize the first International Trade Fair for Humanitarian Aid and Development in Central and Eastern Europe Warsaw Humanitarian Expo. We would like them to be an opportunity to present Polish products and services used in humanitarian activities and development projects, ranging from food through medical equipment to IT services and renewable energy sources. The Warsaw Humanitarian Fair will also be a platform for discussion on the relations of the Polish community of NGOs with business in order to develop a better synergy of activities. In turn, the initiative to set up a Polish technology hub is aimed mainly at Asian and Middle East markets in response to the challenges faced by technologically advanced companies, especially IT companies. We will continue our involvement in the work of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, supporting its extension to include further European countries and activities in Asian and African countries with which Poland is developing economic cooperation. This year's 120th anniversary of the birth of the most outstanding Polish economist Michał Kalecki will be used according to our plans to remind Polish economic thought on the theory of economic cycles, economic growth models and economic problems of developing countries. Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! Development cooperation is an expression of our solidarity with developing countries. Remembering the solidarity we experienced in difficult times, today we want to share this solidarity with others. It is also an investment in the stability and security of the world, through it and Poland. Development cooperation also involves fulfilling the obligations arising from Poland's membership of international organisations. We are committed to the efforts of the international community to implement the Sustainable Development Goals as part of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, to combat poverty, to social development and to help communities affected by armed conflicts. This Decision shall enter Poland has committed to official development aid according to preliminary estimates - estimates are still ongoing, but we can already say - 2800 million PLN. Our eastern neighbours, especially Belarus, Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine, remain a key direction of activity. In our opinion, the only way to stabilise the area of the former Soviet Union in the long term is through deep reforms and Polish modernisation. In these countries we are involved, among others. to support the construction of professional civil service, leading the Eastern Partnership Academy of Public Administration. We also support the development of a safe border management system. Five African countries remain an important geographical priority for Polish development cooperation: Ethiopia, Kenya, Senegal, Tanzania and Uganda, as well as three countries Asia and the Middle East: Myanmar, Lebanon and Palestine. Development aid includes projects developing human capital, entrepreneurship and environmental standards, as well as scholarships for studies in Poland. A good example of development activities is the project implemented for 4 years in Kenya by Polish firefighters and the Polish Centre for International Aid. It includes specialized training for fire services there, which increase their professionalism and effectiveness. Thanks to Polish aid in the suburbs of Nairobi, the first training center in Kenya and the Horn of Africa is created. 40% have already been trained Kenyan firefighters, about 450 people, who were equipped with modern rescue equipment at the same time. Humanitarian aid to victims of wars and conflicts is also an integral part of Polish foreign policy. We are active in Iraq, Lebanon, Jordan, Syria and Ukraine. Last year we took medical care and rehabilitation of 30,000. people, mostly women and children. We have provided first aid and shelter of over 35 thousand. refugees. We are in favour of a systemic vision of action that involves helping and responding effectively to the challenges closest to humanitarian and migration conflicts, rather than the unconditional automatic reception of all migrants. We are the biggest donor of the European Investment Bank's economic strengthening initiative, with the allocation of EUR 50 million, among others. to support the economic development of Lebanon and Jordan as countries affected by the refugee crisis. Together with the Visegrad Group countries, we also finance actions for better border management of Libya. We are consistently increasing funding for humanitarian aid. In 2015, it was PLN 24 million, while last year it was PLN 135 million. Our contributions support the priorities of the Polish development cooperation programme and, in the case of the UN contribution, also the priorities of the Polish Presidency of the Security Council. At the same time, we are strengthening relations with the most important partners of the global humanitarian aid system. In 2018 I signed an agreement on cooperation with the International Committee of the Red Cross on behalf of Poland. High Seym! The position of the country depends to a large extent on the assessments made by the world public on it. Good associations with Poland, knowledge and respect for its culture and history are crucial for the success of our projects in the international arena. The promotion of Polish culture and Poland abroad has a special role for Polish institutes, which operate in 25 countries. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has signed an agreement with the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, which aims to ensure better coordination of projects implemented by Polish institutes and other diplomatic and consulary institutions and to exploit the potential of all national cultural institutions and promote Polish culture abroad. In 2018, our diplomats in cooperation with the Adam Mickiewicz Institute and Polish representatives commemorated 100 years of independent Poland, carrying out over 1200 exhibitions, publications, conferences, films and other forms of promotion. The most famous moment of international celebrations was the highlight of the white-red tones of several dozen prestigious objects scattered on five continents, so we arrived with information about this unique anniversary to millions of customers around the world. We disseminate knowledge about Polish history and heroic attitudes of Poles. In Brussels, General Maczek's actions are reminiscent of the "Armoured wings" exhibition dedicated to the Polish liberators of Flanders. In January this year, I was honored to inaugurate this exhibition together with my Belgian counterpart. Thanks to the enormous work and efforts of the Embassy of the Republic of Poland in Bern, the whole world learned about members of the so-called. Berne's group, Polish diplomats in Switzerland under the direction of Alexander Ładoś, who during the Holocaust rescued Jews, giving them massively false passports of Latin American countries. As a result of the joint activities of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Krakow's raccoons were considered valuable enough to be included in the representative list of intangible cultural heritage of UNESCO humanity. This list is a list of practices and phenomena from around the world that show the diversity of intangible heritage... [[It's a success, actually...]] ...and raise awareness of its significance. The 550th anniversary of Polish parliamentarianism, celebrated both in Poland and abroad, was used by the dissemination of knowledge about our country's participation in the development of representative democracy. in Strasbourg and Vilnius. Thank you from this place, the High House, for conducting active parliamentary diplomacy at the level of the Presidents of the Chambers, committees, several dozen bilateral groups and permanent parliamentary delegations, thank you for the work of Members of Parliament and Members in foreign affairs. It is an invaluable complement to the efforts of the President of the Republic of Poland and the Government. I look forward to a fruitful cooperation in this area. There will be an opportunity for this, because 2019 is full of important anniversaries. It is about the 20th anniversary of Poland's membership in NATO, the 15th anniversary of Poland's accession to the European Union, the 30th anniversary of the victory of the "Solidarity" election on 4 June 1989. We will also celebrate the 450th anniversary of the Polish-Lithuanian Union, the 75th anniversary of the Warsaw Uprising and the 80th anniversary of the outbreak of the Second World War. [[And government changes.]] These anniversaries provide an excellent opportunity to present the role of Poland and its contribution to world-breaking events. We hope that our Polish story about these exceptional events will sound particularly loud and effective in 2019. We also want international awareness to be as broad as possible in our society. The dissemination of knowledge and debate on this subject are supported by regional centres of international debate. Since July 2016, the total number of participants in projects such as conferences, workshops, trainings, debates organised by RODMs has exceeded 100,000. persons. Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! Outside Poland, 20 million of our compatriots or people with Polish roots live today. Some of them are Poles remaining in the East after moving the borders of Poland, some are emigrants consisting of contemporary Polonia. Both of these groups, far from uniform, face different problems and require a different approach. In 2017, an amendment to the Repatriation Act adopted by the High House entered into force. On the basis of it, the Ministry continues its efforts to make the widest possible use of its instrumentary with the intention of increasing the repatriation scale of all Poles and Polish people willing to do so from the areas of the Asian part of the former Soviet Union, especially Kazakhstan. [[Applause]] In 2017, 298 visas were issued for repatriation, while in 2018 717. At a high level there is an interest in the Polish Charter. More than 22,000 were spent last year. Cards were extended to over 13,000. cases. We are consistently improving the functioning of consular offices. The Consular Information Centre and the Integrated Business Phone allow our compatriots to obtain help outside official working hours. Since the launch of both services on 30 January 2017, operators have already handled more than 170 thousand. telephone calls. The public's attention has recently drawn attention to the activities of our institution in Norway to protect the parental rights of Polish citizens and the rights of children themselves. Polish consuls contact Norwegian social services, verify their actions and intervene, if necessary, to protect the family life of our citizens. Protecting the rights of Poles is one of the foundations of our diplomacy. We also seek to improve bilateral cooperation with Norway in the protection of minors. At the beginning of March, a study visit took place a few days ago from the Norwegian Children's Protection Offices, during which we discussed issues that were the biggest challenge for cross-border cooperation. The increase in the emigration of Poles is of course not in the Polish national interest and its inspiration is not our intention, it is not the intention of the government. The economic growth of Poland, the improvement of the standard of living of its citizens and the decline of unemployment have a chance to induce many Poles to return to the country. We're counting on it, and we're talking about it. At the same time, the presence of such a large Polish community outside the country is an opportunity to actively promote Polish interests. It is particularly important to support Poland in further strengthening Poland's security, to realise the image of reforms implemented by our government and to promote the truth about Polish history. We would like our compatriots to become an important ally of the government in promoting the Polish state, Polish culture and national memory, the Polish historical narrative. An example of success in this dimension was the effective defence of the Katyn monument in New Jersey with the key participation of the Polish community. In turn, the choice in the plebiscite in Great Britain of Poles, Col. pilot Francis... [[Ha, ha, ha.]] ... Kornicki, a symbol of the RAF pilot from World War II would not have been possible without a mass vote for this candidacy settled in the Isles of our compatriots. I would like to express my gratitude to all those involved in both cases. [[Applause]] [[Tusk for the premiere.]] High Izbo! Polish policy, in order to bear the desired fruit, must be implemented not only for Polonia but, above all, with its participation. We will continue to develop Polish consultative councils at Polish institutions abroad and support Polish organizations, Polish media and education as curators of culture and national tradition. This last task is of particular importance to our fellow countrymen in the East. We support the efforts of the Ministry of National Education to increase the number of teachers directed to Polish communities in this area, as well as civic activities in the field of helping the people living there. We will ask for the rights of Poles wherever they are not properly protected, also using multilateral forums if necessary. Our unchangeable goal is to ensure that Poles living abroad get all the rights that result from bilateral agreements and from European standards. The subject of our special treatments will be to increase the availability of Polish language teaching, especially for children of school age. We address education issues with the Belarusian side during all bilateral talks. We expect a treaty commitment to create the conditions for the development of education of the Polish minority. There are some positives, too. During my visit to Belarus, I opened a renovated military cemetery in Duniłowicz, where soldiers of the Polish-Bolshevik war are buried, with the permission of the authorities. The Ministry of National Education talks with Lithuania about improving the conditions of the Polish educational system in the country. Since May 2018, the programme of five channels of Polish Television has been received in Vilnius, which contributes to strengthening Polishness, but also to the resistance of our compatriots to Russian disinformation. An important event will be planned to launch TVP Vilnius. Thanks to the cooperation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Polish Television and the involvement of the local Polish journalistic environment, it will be possible to reach out with a message about contemporary Poland, its culture and history directly to Poles in Lithuania. The Polish-German Treaty gave bilateral relations a special dimension and the Polish community in Germany a special status guaranteeing equal rights of German minorities in Poland and Polonia in Germany. During discussions with the federal government, we consistently address the issues of improving conditions for developing and deepening cultural and linguistic identity by people of Polish origin in Germany. We hope that the Polish-German round table with the participation of representatives of the Polish government and the Polish community in Germany and Germany in Poland will achieve tangible results, especially in the field of teaching Polish as a native language, the renovation and operation of the Polish Association in Bochum in Germany and the commemoration of Polish victims of the Second World War in Germany, including the pre-war Polish minority. High Izbo! Today's world requires an effective translation of our rights, an explanation of our position and a decision to build a favourable image of our country. There is a need to properly identify and respond to emerging threats. The diplomatic service is a beautiful and honorable service, but it is not easy either. We are consistently modernising Polish foreign service in both human, legal and infrastructure terms. We are fully aware that the human resource of Polish diplomacy is crucial for the implementation of the priorities of Polish foreign policy. We adapt the development policy of competences in the foreign service to the new challenges. The traditional diplomatic workshop remains essential in a situation where international relations are becoming increasingly complex. Consequently, we employ young, well-educated people. We are very interested in working at the Ministry. More than 400 candidates apply to the Diplomat Academy every time. The past year was also the first year in which we decided to act on the basis of a double recruitment system for diplomatic and consular applications. At the initiative of Parliament and with the support of the overwhelming majority of ladies and gentlemen of Members, the Foreign Service Act was amended, resulting in the removal from this service of persons associated with the special services of the Polish People's Republic. We must also have a proper diplomatic representation. In the last 3 years we have reopened offices in Panama, Tanzania, Senegal and the Philippines, consulates in Houston, Belfast, Poland Institute in Tbilisi. Analyses show that we have too thin a staff in facilities in both Americas, Asia and Africa, while excessive in Europe, both western and eastern. We will gradually change these proportions, strengthen non-European institutions, because that is where the focus of the world economy is moving, and there we have more and more interests. Employees working at the MFA Centre are currently deployed in various, often remote locations in Warsaw, which makes coordination more difficult and cost-effective. So we decided to start building a building on our property, which adheres to the main building of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This investment will allow the transfer of employees to one place, improve management, reduce the costs of running the resort by limiting the rental. Investments are also carried out abroad. Last year we put into use the combined headquarters of the embassy and Polish Institute in the renovated palace of Pacs in Vilnius. There are also intensive preparations for the construction of the new embassy headquarters in Berlin and Minsk. Mr. Marshal! Mr. President! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The foreign policy of the state is a national matter, not a party matter. The role of the Foreign Minister is to gain her cross-party support. I trust that the main areas of foreign policy, concern for security and development of the state, support for building an efficient, effective, coherent European Union with a strong democratic mandate, regional cooperation in Central Europe, support for independence, territorial integrity of our neighbours are issues that are inter-partyly linked to us. This does not mean that foreign policy should not be critically assessed. I hope that the information presented by me about the tasks of Polish foreign policy in 2019 will be the subject of an in-depth debate. Thanking once again for the attention and presence of the President of the Republic of Poland, Prime Minister, Members and Members of Parliament, I ask the Sejm of the Republic of Poland to accept information from the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the tasks of Polish foreign policy in 2019. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u7	Thank you, Minister. I'm ordering a 40-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 minutes 01 hours 11 min 40]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 17 of the agenda. The Sejm established in the discussion on this item the distribution of time between clubs and circles, depending on their size, between 114 and 5 minutes, i.e. the mid-term debate. I'm opening a discussion. Małgorzata Gosievska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will speak first.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u8	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We have listened attentively to the information presented by Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Czaputowicz, about the government's plans for 2019 in the field of foreign policy. It was a comprehensive, multifaceted and very detailed presentation. Every country's foreign policy today is full of bureaucratic rhetoric filled with hundreds of acronyms and various formats, triangles, squares and tandems. However, for us Poles are the most important in all this. The most important are their prosperity, safety and the best conditions to multiply the welfare of Polish families. We are pleased to note that this objective is clearly visible in the information on Polish foreign policy presented by the Minister this year. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Law and Justice have always believed that the aim of the government's foreign policy should be the best place for Poland among other national countries, corresponding to our population and economic potential. Thanks to our government's policies, including Europe's record-breaking effectiveness in reducing tax fraud, the economic potential of Poland is growing. This potential needs to be properly exploited in foreign policy. Poland is getting stronger. It is high time to reject the complexes of inferiority, servitude and blackness that our political opponents are famous for. The basic criterion for assessing the attitude of other countries towards Poland should be respect for Poles and representing their political choices of authorities, to our tradition, history and culture. It is high time we rejected our foreign policy's right-to-right attitude to projects, views or attitudes just because they are preached abroad. The only criterion that we should follow is our national interest, security and prosperity of Poles. Today, service in Polish diplomacy cannot be reduced to wearing elegant suits, jackets, meaningless smiles and smiles to our partners, regardless of what policies they lead towards Poland, how they treat Poles and their traditions. Nor can we rely on putting our backs on patting and trading Polish interests in exchange for positions in international institutions or lucrative contracts for foreign companies in Poland. It's time for a brave, active and complex-free policy. The Poles entrusted state affairs to the hands of the Law and Justice 3 years ago because they wanted to break the doctrine of hiding from the world in the closet proclaimed by the Prime Minister of the Civic Platform. It was the doctrine of craftsmanship, fear of exposing ourselves to the European establishment, apologizing to everyone around us for surviving hundreds of years between Germany and Russia, that we continue to live, shame for our own history, tradition and culture, for the fact that Poland is Poland, not some kind of counterfeit sovereign state ape patterns of other people. Poles want to be proud of their diplomats, seeing their effectiveness in building the image of Poland as a state of sovereign, modern, rapidly developing, effective in defending historical truth and remembering our ancestors, who did not hesitate to defend not only our freedom and yours, but often simply human dignity. The government's strong response to the Israeli foreign minister's racist speech certainly gave Poles cause for satisfaction. We particularly appreciate the determined response of organizations representing the Jewish diaspora in the United States. It's a ray of hope for future cooperation. Together, we should strive to do so in the spirit of solidarity between the victims' peoples against attempts to manipulate and forge our common history for ad hoc political or ideological purposes. On the nations that Germany and the Austrians decided to murder 80 years ago, there is a special responsibility. The password never again needs to be preached together. For the Law and Justice, the welfare of citizens, their safety, their prosperity, their sense of pride in their own country are the most important commitments. We are pleased that these values have been properly reflected in the government's plans for foreign policy for 2019. The Law and Justice Club supports and will support these plans in the Sejm. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This year there are a number of important anniversaries for Poles. Minister Chaputowicz rightly mentioned this. However, you should not think of them as opportunities for the organisation of festivals and occasional academys. In foreign policy, each of these anniversaries should become a symbol of the values that guide our fellow countrymen, the things they have fought for in the past, a political message for all our partners. We should remind ourselves of the commitment to democratic values, remembering both the anniversary of the Lublin Union, which initiated the first democratic integration of nations in Europe, as well as the elections on 4 June 1989, which have signalled the democratic aspirations of the Polish society for the whole world. They were a symbol of Poles' rejection of the concept of zones of influence, totalitarian systems and fraudulent elections introduced by Hitler and Stalin in our part of the world. This spirit, these values then enabled Polish membership of NATO and the European Union. This is our legacy. This is our contribution to the present and future of Europe. This is what we should remind all our partners about in our policy. This is a good change in foreign policy. Dear Members, Minister Chaputowicz spoke little about the achievements of our government. It is probably because of innate academic modesty, but in politics what is not called does not exist, which the opposition will remind us of in a moment. Therefore, we need to say a few words about the activity of Polish diplomacy recently, so that we will not be told here stories about isolation. Poland will remain an honorable member of the UN Security Council for another year. It is worth recalling that the Government of Law and Justice received record support for the Polish candidacy among all countries. It's a fact. In a moment, the opposition will ignore this fact and make their stories from the land of moss and ferns, saying that no one backs us, no one votes for us, no one votes for us and no one... [[Oh, Gosh...]] [[Voice from the O.R.: You don't have to take care of us.]] [[Rydzyk supports you.]] ...doesn't support us. Another fact. Last year Poland assumed responsibility for global climate negotiations and at the summit in Katowice led to a historic agreement with the European Union, China, the United States and Brazil. This success was achieved thanks to the formula of fair climate change proposed by Poland. This approach is very close to us. Law and Justice put the interests of the gray man first, who ultimately pays the highest bills for all the light and increasingly progressive ideas for climate protection. The rich know no moderation in inventing more ambitious ways to protect it - not eat, not breathe, not travel, not have children. These ideas then try to impose on others, including the poor, those who often cannot afford to do so, and who must have more time to implement the changes. And this isn't about the division that we've been told for years, the rich North, the poor South. The protest of yellow vests in France has shown that too radical climate policy... [[In Warsaw yesterday.]] ...calls protests even in the French province... [[Member Paulina Hennig-Kloska: Warsaw.]] ...which is much richer than the Polish province. Our advantage is that thanks to our voters, we know about these moods. This is a good change that we bring to Polish politics and European politics. We have constant contact with our voters, hence no one should be surprised by the success of our negotiators in Katowice. It was Katowice that became a global symbol of skillful diplomacy and negotiating efficiency. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] The words of recognition belong to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and Minister Michael Kurtyka. Congratulations on your success. [[Where are the flowers?]] Honourable ladies and gentlemen, Success brings success. Today Poland is seen as a good place to solve the most difficult political problems of the modern world, in this peace in the Middle East. Therefore, just a few weeks ago Warsaw was the meeting place of foreign ministers of several dozen countries of the world interested in peace in the region. It was in Warsaw, at the initiative of the United States and Poland, that the Warsaw peace process was launched, in which both Arab countries and Israel participate. Under the patronage of Poland and the United States, for the first time in decades, the heads of diplomacy of Arab states discussed the situation in the region with the Prime Minister of Israel. The task facing Polish diplomacy is to ensure that the Warsaw Process is an open process for all who declare their work for peace, stability and security. This should be a Polish contribution to world policy and in favour of such participation of Poland in this process we are in favour. Cooperation with the United States in the Warsaw Process in a matter as important to the world as peace in the Middle East opens a unique channel of communication with the American administration. This door opens to each other at a time when America signals the will to reduce its own commitment in the world. The United States will withdraw from many regions of the world where their presence has so far been a guarantee of peace and security. It is worth appreciating that the Polish government keeps its hand on the pulse. This means that it is past time in Polish diplomacy when the only well-known interlocutor of the Polish Foreign Minister must have been his father-in-law. It is worth recalling that the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the PO-PSL Government went to Washington in 2009 to speak with the Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, who, however, resigned from this meeting shortly after his arrival. The issues of the Middle East have been more important since the meeting with the Polish minister. Today the U.S. Secretary of State himself comes to Warsaw to ask for help in the Middle East peace process. I Poland, and the United States jointly provide patronage to peace talks. This particular nature of relations with the United States should be used in the interests of Polish citizens, increasing their security and creating conditions for them to increase prosperity. The Law and Justice Club will support the government's efforts to increase US military presence in Poland. We believe that this will serve not only Poland's security, but also NATO as a whole, but will also stabilise the situation in our region. A deterrent policy is only effective if it is credible. We must maintain this credibility constantly. Our government is very effective in this matter because there is no more credible political force in Poland than the Law and Justice. The international credibility of Poland is a consequence of our credibility. And this is the success of all our constituents. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Under the Civic Platform and PSL, we lost 8 years to adapt to Russia's new aggressive policy. In 2008, the Council Russia aggressively attacked Georgia for the first time and attacked its neighbours in arms. But the Polish government did not notice this fact at all. He made love to Putin, walking with him on the pier in Sopot, resigned from the system of universal military collection, thus limiting the Polish defence potential. That's how he wanted to present himself in Europe... [[So you're gonna bring the draft back?]] ...as a very modern government, such a very rational one, adapted to the fashionable in Germany, then and today, the spirit of disarmament. At the same time, Russia was accelerating the reinforcements, launching a project for the North Gas pipeline, which will enable it to increase... [[How's the coal from Russia?]] ...pressure on Ukraine and gain funds for further reinforcements. Congratulations on your foresight, gentlemen. That is why a good change in foreign policy was needed. Finally, Poland can pursue a policy that responds to reality and not ignores it. That is why we are fighting against Europe's harmful North Gas pipeline, supporting Ukraine and Georgia's aspirations for membership of the European Union and NATO and the fight against these nations for their independence and territorial integrity. Russia has no right to any sphere of influence, and democracy and the right to self-determination mean that each country can decide for itself what alliance it wants to belong to. No one who is close to democratic values can take that right away from anyone. The international link around Poland is deteriorating. Russia is breaking further international commitments - recently a treaty to reduce missile weapons - and will continue to arm itself. Therefore, our policy towards the United States must take into account the Polish strategic interests, i.e. linking the interests of the United States with Europe, strengthening transatlantic relations, strengthening Europe's alliance with America. We will support the efforts of Polish diplomacy to achieve these objectives. We firmly believe that defending world peace, including in our immediate neighbourhood, is only possible through good cooperation between Europe and the United States. The more misunderstandings there are in these relationships, and recently they are not missing, the more important the task is facing Poland. This Polish diplomacy should actively seek to ensure that misunderstandings do not lead to the breaking of the fundamental thread of agreement and transatlantic cooperation for our security. If America ever withdraws from the world, let us do everything we can to get it to withdraw from Europe, and especially from the eastern flank of NATO, at the very end. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister Chaputowicz mentioned in his speech the 20th anniversary of Polish NATO membership this year. We are proud of this and feel the continuation of this independence tradition, which has always opposed the Yalta division of Europe and fought actively against the Iron Curtain. That's why we're restoring the memory of Major. Jeronomie Dekutowskim Zaporze, rotmister Witold Pilecki, Danuta Sidzikównie, Zygmunt Szendzielarz These are our symbols of a steadfast struggle for independence despite adversity and unfavorable international prosperity. [[Applause]] [[Not the National Army?]] These should be models of patriotism and a firm struggle for Poland for our diplomats as well. Our memory of these heroes is to show our allies and enemies guiding the Polish policy of values and our determination to defend Poland's independence and territorial integrity. [[Not the Grey Ranks? Not the National Army?]] Part of this tradition was the government of the dead. Prime Minister Jan Olszewski, who set our way to NATO and strongly opposed extending the presence of the Soviet troops in our territory. We do not take credit for Poland's NATO membership. It was a joint effort of all Poles and our joint success. However, it must be remembered that at the beginning the election of Prime Minister Olszewski, who was in favour of Poland's membership in NATO, did not meet with popular enthusiasm. Many were frightened by the reaction of Russia or by the deterioration of our relations with the West. Let us remember that there were ideas of establishing Polish-Russian economic companies, i.e. joint business initiatives with Russian special services. We'd be nice on these companies. There were also those who offered an alternative concept to our NATO membership: NATO-bis. We have always fought and fought against false ideas of independence. Historical experience has taught us that in the struggle for independence and strengthening... [[It didn't teach you anything, it didn't teach you anything.]] ...sovereignty must not be guided by the voices of weak-willed people who care about the rumors of foreign politicians. They may not like Poland's policy, they may not need Poland's policy. For us, only the interests of Poles are important, and Poles are clearly in favour of strong and independent Poland working to strengthen the alliance of Europe and America and to increase the US military presence in Poland. That's why we're investing in our defense potential. We will support the programme of modernization of the Polish army. We are ready to support the gradual increase in expenditure to 2.5% GDP. The credibility of Poland's allies is an important element of our policy. It is needed to convince other European partners to fulfil the voluntary commitment made at the NATO Summit in Wales to allocate 2% GDP in joint defence. Poland is fulfilling its obligations, so we can and should support the United States in its efforts to convince all our allies to follow our example. We are not disturbed by their aspirations to improve Europe's defence capabilities in parallel to strengthening NATO. The more defence potential in Europe, the better. Therefore, we will support the cooperation of the European defence industries of PESCO as long as it will benefit the Polish industry, Polish workers and the Polish army. However, the reality is that European defence independence is a vision of a distant future. Europe without the United States is vulnerable today. Therefore, in our foreign policy we should strive to strengthen cooperation with them in all possible areas, while always taking into account the priority of Polish national interests. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Poland belongs to the European Union and the European Union belongs to Poland. These are the words of Prime Minister Beata Szydło, who expresses our attitude towards European integration. We are in favour of an active European policy because we are not indifferent to what Europe Poles will live in. We are ready to support government policy in order to ensure that the European Union is adequately financed, but we must be convinced that we are funding a Union that cannot be drawn into political competition and cannot be politicised on one side of the political scene. We must also be sure that the way in which decisions are taken in the European Union will take into account the voice of all countries participating in integration in a balanced and fair manner. Mr Chaputowicz rightly drew attention to the disadvantage of the weighing system in the European Union, which will lead to the fact that, after the brexit, small and medium-sized countries will lose their ability to influence Community decisions so far. Indeed, when we agreed in the Lisbon Treaty to a new system of decision-making in the Union, no one assumed that one of the largest European countries would leave the Union. However, if it comes to brexitu, the new situation will have to be taken into account. The Law and Justice Club will support government action in this direction. At the same time, I would like to remind us all of the traditional democratic principle: as much contributions as participation in decisions, and in the Polish version: nothing about us without us, or rather without increasing our contribution. We're not going anywhere from Europe. That is why we need to shape it so that it provides a comfortable development environment for all the national countries involved in European integration. The final vote on the future of the Union, its shape, competences and policies must belong to the societies of the Member States. If the European Union starts to fear the voice of its own citizens, the reference to the values on which it is based will become an empty bureaucratic ritual. We want a living union. We want a Union listening to the voice of societies and democratically elected governments. President Macron recently admitted that if a referendum were to be held in France today on leaving the European Union, it would produce the same result as in the United Kingdom. This is said by the President of the State, who, together with the Germans, wants to dominate the European Union by using the method of voting over other nations, as was the case during the migration crisis. We oppose a Europe that is equal and equal. We want a Europe equal with equals, free with free. There is talk of the fight against Eurosceptics. We believe that true Eurosceptics are those who do not want to give citizens of the Union the right to decide on the future of the Community. This dislike of voters is a threat to the Union, it is voters who are real Eurosceptics. And indeed, such Eurosceptics, the Law and Justice, want to stand up to them. The phobia of Europeans and their views on the future of Europe today suffers those who fear that the vision of a nationalised Europe would not convince voters. They are the ones who are trying to reform the Union without asking Europeans for their consent, creating tandems, locomotives, proposing ideas to strengthen integration in such a way as to avoid the need to obtain for their own ideas of social democratic ratification. We're not afraid of voters. [[It's worse that you're not afraid of God.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In Poland, thanks to the policy of our government, which takes care of Polish national interests, which takes care of the proper relations between EU institutions in the deficit of democracy and democratic Member States, we have record social support for integration across the Union. This is particularly important when we are dealing with an opposition which, for its own particular political interests, does everything possible to use the institutions of the European Union to fight its own country to make the European Union an instrument for an internal political game to instigate EU officials against Poles. [[A little intellectual integrity, please.]] Our opposition is far from the class of Winston Churchill, who said bad or good, but it is my homeland. It is due to Law and Justice that we would not have to fear, like the President of France, the decision of Poles to join the Union. Our policy for this membership is against the excesses of the opposition and against the anti-European policies of some EU Commissioners. [[27:1.]] We therefore call on the government to combat the democratic deficit in Europe, to oppose undemocratic visions of division and to discriminate against any Member State. We must not accept the dictatorship of real Eurosceptics who are afraid of their own voters. We do not agree with Europe's divisions. To this end, we support the policy of the Polish authorities initiating cooperation between Central European countries in order to make up for the level and quality of life that divides Central European society from Western European standards. This is what the Tri-marine initiative is for, which is gradually thawing, which is an example of the establishment of the Tri-marine Fund. The opposition made fun of this project. She tried to present him as a project based on historical dreams, called him the Imperial Intermarine to discourage regional partners from cooperating with Poland. She said it was an anti-EU project. Everything until Germany applied for participation in the Tri-marriage initiative. The criticism of the opposition bench immediately stopped. In the eyes of the opposition, the position of the German Government is more important in the perception of this initiative than the Polish national interests. Our strength is democracy. We encourage the government to create a coalition in Europe with countries that are betting sovereign nations on Europe. We need a strong voice from democratic national states in Europe. Our policy has had important achievements. The pro-European attitude of Poles is the success of our policy, which was achieved in spite of the opposition's efforts. It's really a paradox. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Various types of oppositional ambassadors' canapés, self-proclaimed experts in international politics, diplomacy and Poland's place in the world have escaped the success of the climate summit in Katowice, government activity in the European Union and the UN to support Russia's attack by Ukraine, declarations on the annex of Crimea or Russia's maritime piracy in the Kerchen Strait. This tells us a lot about the political agenda of our competitors and their real sponsors. No wonder, then, that the opposition took on water in the mouth in the case of the Northern Gas pipeline, so absolutely, against the interests of the European Union, pushed by the German Government. [[Who's Orbán with?]] The Civic Platform and PSL belong to the same political family in Europe, to which Mrs Merkel belongs, but the criticism of her and her policy on Nord Stream was surprisingly weak. The president of the Civic Platform said after meetings with the German Chancellor that he was pleased with the conversation and that the construction of the North Gas pipeline could no longer be stopped. This is the pro-Europeanity of the Civic Platform in practice. [[Is this an exposé about Platform or foreign policy?]] Yes, it is pro-Europeanity, but without pro-police, ladies and gentlemen. It's such a lame Donald: it's supposed to be European and it's not Polish. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[Voice from the room: What is it?]] [[Voice from the courtroom: It's embarrassing!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The opposition of effective actions of the Polish government does not see not only because they contradict its thesis about political isolation of Poland, but also because their recognition would be contrary to the habits of the opposition. The opposition must be dissatisfied with Polish successes. For the opposition, the more failures, the better. The focus on failure has entered our opposition into blood so much that it cannot support Polish interests. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[27:1.]] Political competition prevents our opposition from cooperating with the government in the name of Poland. Therefore, there is doubt that the opposition has not lost its ability to act in defence of Polish affairs for good, all the more so because it costs to expose external enemies to Poland. For these favors you will have to pay your allies in Europe - contracts for foreign companies, services made at the expense of Polish interests, at the expense of the interests of Polish workers and Polish industry. As you pay off your debts, we already see in Warsaw, after its president was the leading expert of the Civic Platform for Foreign Policy, its former MEP Rafał Trzaskowski, the last leader of rainbow transformations. [[Applause]] Suddenly it turned out that in Poland it is impossible to buy good trams - although all Polish cities use them. Isn't there a Polish company... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[And what trams do they drive in Bydgoszcz?]] ...which order for Warsaw trams would help develop and give work to Polish workers? But favors have to be paid. Therefore, Warsawers will drive Korean trams, not those produced in Bydgoszcz. or Poznan. [[Do you have a Polish iPhone?]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] You have given Poland a pledge, bringing political debts to your European allies. Poland cannot afford to pay them back. You'd better declare bankruptcy. Your winnings would be a failure of Polish workers and Polish companies... [[But this is an exposé on foreign policy.]] ...because they will have to pay for your success in foreign and European policy. But, ladies and gentlemen, we won't let that happen. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u9	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Margaret Gosievska, for speaking on behalf of the club. I invite you to the speaker of Mr Andrzej Halicki, who will perform on behalf of the Civic Platform-Citizen Coalition Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u10	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! First of all: Minister! I would like to be serious because the situation is really serious and the pinchy, quite funny - I saw that the Minister himself turned red With some congratulations, let's put our attention aside. I'd like to start with what's visible to the naked eye, Minister. With some hope, we greeted you in Parliament when you gave your first exposé, at least I, maybe because of your sentiments about the old days, the NZS, the WiP and everything that was in the past. [[Voice from the room: Greetings, Minister.]] I'm talking about it because you realized if you had a chance to make amends to what your predecessor ruined, and it ruined it so disastrously that that's why it was a change. If you were so close to ministers Bartoszewski, Skubiszewski, Geremek, you knew and felt how they were building a Polish position, how they successfully pursue the national interest, how to act in the European and international arena in matters of security and interests of the Polish people, society - you are referring to the sovereign. That was the expectation: repair. And what did you do with that? What have you accomplished? How will you be written on history cards? As the minister who had these tools in his hand and had this chance. You did not take advantage of this opportunity, but I have good news, especially for President Gosievska: this was your last exposé because we are coming back. [[Applause]] This is what the Poles expect. This is also what Europe expects, because it also faces very difficult challenges. In fact, you didn't refer to them. You didn't address the Macron appeal, you didn't address the debates that serve to build a more efficient community, which also offers a chance for faster development. You didn't mention it at all. You did propaganda. In fact, you read it without much conviction, unfortunately, I have to say, because you could see it, too. If you don't believe in your power, the question is what you want to achieve and what balance you want to be. I think you can use the patterns we know from history, too. Stefan Meller, in 2006, if he didn't believe what the party was dictating to him, then he just resigned, left. [[Applause]] This should be a debate about Polish foreign policy, but it is a speech about propaganda rhetoric of the ruling party, which presented the party interest over the interests of the nation. I'm talking about this for one time with regret, because you can't call yourself a patriot who puts the party business above the interests of society, the nation, above our national interests. I'm also saying this in terms of security, which you've been talking about a lot, but it's not true. Finally tell the Poles the truth that there is no strengthening of the eastern flank, that Fort Trump is an illusion - it is not your fault anymore, but such an infantile term, calling this undertaking really discredits it - but worse still, that there are no permanent bases, and the base in Radzików is a contract and achievements of predecessors - the government of the Civic Platform and PSL. This is not your achievement. [[Applause]] There's a delay on your side. Were you talking about the concern for cohesion policy, the common agricultural policy built on the basis of dialogue, but where is this dialogue? After all, in the new, larger budget - 1200 billion - there will be a new perspective. There will be 200 billion more than in the previous one, but as Poland we will get much less, also as part of the implementation of these policies. You say you fight for it effectively, but you don't sit at this decision-making table because you brought yourself out into the hallway and into the elevator. [[Applause]] That way we'll never succeed. We had to go back to those formats that gave us at least the chance to build an effective argument. Meanwhile, you rejected the Weimar Triangle for principle. No, because I don't. You have rejected any form of constructive cooperation, because, of course, there is a conflict with the European Commission for the rule of law. Yet you yourself spoke about Europe of values, about 1989, about values, democracy, freedom. This is the symbol of Poland that we should be proud of. Of course we should be proud, you're the only ones who deny it. You've ruined this value system. [[Applause]] You must tell and tell the Poles the truth. Even those EU measures that I mentioned earlier are at risk because of the Article procedure. 7 is not only theoretical, it is a practically operational procedure, the application of which can deprive us of these measures. It's your fault, your responsibility. I understand that the Minister of Justice is someone else, but you are responsible for Polish-European relations. You can say: stop, you can say: enough, you can say that you do not agree, because the interests of Poland, the interests of Polish farmers, the interests of Polish local governments, us Poles, citizens are at risk. You have such a duty. 1 to 27. Here, a colleague of Gosievska spoke about diplomatic successes and voting for your candidates. Am I really supposed to remind you of that? [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] 1 to 27 is the trademark of your incompetence, your unnecessary intrigue, disputes that shouldn't be at all, because the national interest is one common, chairman of the National Council... [[Voice from the Chamber: European.]] ...fortunately there is a Pole and dialogue could be easier. European. What did I say? [[Voice from the National Hall.]] [[It won't come back.]] I've been thinking about the national foundation. It's a beautiful thing to remind you of. President Gosiewska was delighted by the reaction of the Polish government to the slandering of Poles and the anti-Polish statements of the Prime Minister of Israel here in Warsaw. Later, there was a statement by the Israeli Foreign Minister - the first public statement so defaming Poles - who told us to suck anti-Semitism with mother's milk. Minister, after all, what the President has said is cartoonism, it is ridiculous. You say you received the word "sorry," but it did not fall at all, moreover, another arrogant and very arrogant accusation of Poles came. Minister, there is a national foundation, you are, and you have abdicated on what is due to Poles, and Poles owe an apology on this matter. [[Applause]] And do you recall that when we were running politics on our knees, President Barack Obama apologized to us? Besides, it was a much smaller mess, although it was a terrible performance. We Poles apologized loudly, also in the press, the President of the United States himself. We are talking about very important tasks for diplomacy, for you as a minister, also in the context of the anniversary and the way we have gone. Just don't take credit for anyone else's. The European Union is out of your way. You have a conflict with the European Commission. What's going on with NATO? It was the 20th anniversary of our entry into NATO, this great success of Polish diplomacy. And where was it celebrated? Prague. And it should be celebrated over the Vistula. This signal came from the country on the Vistula River, the breeze of freedom you mentioned. [[Applause]] You're the only ones who don't even care. Finally, however, I would like to say that there is a good signal and hope for Europeans, this breeze of freedom, democracy, tolerance of Europeanity, solidarity. Europeans see this and hope that it will really change in Poland, that we are coming back, that we are responding to the demand for what has so far been a symbol of Polishness in a very concrete way. Poles, we will return to the first most important table, not only in Europe. You will be represented with dignity because our proud country deserves it with a beautiful story. We will do this as the Civic Platform - the Civic Coalition, as a broad block of the European Coalition. We will do this because we do not accept this marginalization and the taking of Poland outside. We're gonna do this because we have to do this because it's our duty, and if you guys can't... If you accept this marginalization, make friends among nationalists, among Putin's friends, I don't know where else. This is the donkey bench of Polish diplomacy. I would like to end by saying, in particular areas, that we cannot accept the information of the Minister, on behalf of the Civic Platform and the Civic Coalition Club. I'm filing a motion to reject it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u11	Thank you, sir. I would like to invite you to the speaker of Mr Grzegorz Długi, who will present his speech on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u12	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First, a little attention to my previous speaker. Mr Halicki, I would like to say that you do not use the words "Macron's apel," because Peter Appeal is our Member and not Macron's, so I would very much like to be precise here. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Okay. Second line. I'll get started. As for the substance itself, Minister, I am not going to catch on to these easy methods, which means I am going to throw myself at this Krakow raccoon because it is asked to say what is a raccoon and what is not. I don't know if the Krakow Nativity scene... As a Silesian associated with Krakow, I love Krakow's Nativity scenes, but I am not sure that this is really an important thing in our international policy. What's important is... In addition, in your speech at the beginning, you said that there should be a summary of the last period, the past and the outline of the vision of the future. And the question is: Was the last year or the last period a breakthrough in our foreign policy, in our international relations? During this period, has our international position, our country's position, our nation's position been strengthened? Have relations with neighbors improved during this period? Has economic expansion been facilitated? We would like to hear the answers to that question in your speech, but to be honest, I haven't heard it. I've heard of a position in the European Union. This position - we will all agree - is becoming increasingly difficult and somehow it is not apparent that the Government of Law and Justice is able on the one hand to defeat or convince European bureaucracy. We're in a dead end on so-called issues. conflict with the bureaucracy itself. Appreciate it, Art. 7 is a little stuck, okay, but if we think that the whole of our relationship should be based on the fight against the article. 7 or supporting it, that is probably not what relations with the European Union are about. We're in a dead end in an accident. Nord Stream 2, where we are a little hostage of our own ideology, where we fight for Ukraine, and Ukraine with our consent is responsible for not even being able to bury the murdered Poles with dignity. This really isn't a smart politician. This is a dead end. We have shown a clear lack of opportunity to block the protectionist behaviour of some countries. I am referring, of course, mainly to France, because it is the engine of the protectionism of modern Europe, and I am surprised that we could not build a coalition in the European Union, which would simply be able to block it, because these French drives hit not only Poland, but also other countries, especially countries on the acquis. The lack of this possibility indicates that we are either in bad politics or we are wrong. I'd like us to hear it clearly. The next question is the Tri-Moor. Okay, the positive aspect is that we've already come out of the heads of state and it's gone into the ministerial stage, but it still doesn't show that the concept of the Tri-marine is somehow turbulently developing. And this is very simple. There are no common interests and there is no support for the Tri-Moor on some locomotive. Let me remind you that Polish GDP in the European Union is about 5%. So how can we be a locomotive for a dozen countries, how can we be this reference point if we are, let's face it, not quite a significant country in Europe? So this very romantic vision of the Tri-marine, in which Poland somehow organizes countries with a similar history, with a similar position in development, is simply beautiful, romantic, but probably doomed to failure. Perhaps it would be worth remembering. Visegrad Group. I guess there's no cooperation. That's the truth. Sometimes we have a common voice with the Visegrad Group, but if there is a broken clock, he also shows a good hour twice a day, so sometimes it happens to us to say something together with the Visegrad Group, but the unity of the Visegrad Group is best borne out by a photograph of Prime Minister Netanjah sitting with representatives of the Visegrad Group. Incidentally, at least two of them were representatives of the states that were officially collaborating with the Nazi Germans, and we, who were as foolish as it turns out that we resisted, turned out to be Zabłocki on soap. [[Applause]] I'm glad Mr. Cezary saw it. Another point: the Warsaw conference. The fact that we agreed... Perhaps it was a good idea for us to agree to hold a conference at which Prime Minister Netanyahu would enter Kneset, that we agreed to support Prime Minister Netanyahu in his internal struggle in Israel. In some sense I understand that for the government of PiS Prime Minister Netanyahu is certainly closer than other power centers in Israel, so I could understand that, but help does not mean at my expense. ♪ We're far away ♪ All in return for Mr. Netanyahu having scored some points in anti-polonism. I don't know, the classics are something that when a conference is being prepared, the opening speeches, the opening speeches are in some sense known before the conference, they are sort of agreed. Does this mean that we have accepted the statement of the Secretary of State of the United States and agree with what he said? This conference -- I'm sorry for the colloquial words -- it kind of looked like a setup. If we add to that the statements of prominent American journalists, etc., it looked like a setup, where we went out again like Zabłocki on soap. In Arab countries, by the way, Arab politicians, who were accused by their internal opposition, for example. Were they sitting next to Prime Minister Netanyahu or something they were explaining? Because Poland set them up like this. We, too, are being criticised for this conference at this time. I would very much like the Minister to show us the positives of authentic, real, not propaganda, for our internal propaganda, but the real advantages of this conference, which, incidentally, we have been waiting for. I'm sure the Minister has indicated another positive side. It turned out that the positive effect of our foreign policy is that we send workers to Germany. I think Hans Frank would... Oh, no, I don't want to say much. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] We don't send workers to Germany, Minister. This indicates that our policy, not only foreign but also internal, is weak, that Poles must look for a better paid job abroad. It's not a success. [[Applause]] Now let's say a little bit about the future plans that the Minister has outlined. I didn't see them, but I saw no idea for the European Union at the time of the breakthrough. The times of breakthrough require a concept so that we can together - probably the whole room or the whole political spectrum - fight for this new European Union, which will suit all of us, at least to a large extent. I didn't see any idea. There is no idea to implement a policy on the United States, especially the United States after President Trump. Trump won't rule forever, and we've put everything on one political option in the United States right now. Even the American ambassador in Poland supports e.g. all anti-Trump publishing companies, etc. Therefore, it may be appropriate to set an example and pursue a broader policy as regards the American centers. Besides, our policy is to... We were talking about the emigration of our workers to Germany. Our armored workers should also be granted the right to emigrate to the United States, because our weapons are all produced there now, and our bets, with apologies... [[They're raining.]] ...they die one at a time. That's the truth. See what's going on with Bumar the Swan, other than the one I care about. That's another line. There is no idea for ever stronger forceps Russia - Germany. No idea at all. As long as you're Chancellor Merkel, we're gonna get through this, but if anyone is the successor, it's really gonna be hard, it's gonna be really hard. There's no idea for Ukraine. It's very painful. Ukraine is close to us ethnically, culturally, it is close to our heart, but we do not have an idea for Ukraine, our internal disputes are transferred to Ukrainian issues. We sacrifice a lot for Ukraine, Ukraine thinks it's hers and that nothing has to give its way, and we just accept it. No public diplomacy. This is a very painful thing that my previous speaker has already said about it. That's what money is for, among other things. Polish National Foundation, e.g. That's what they were meant for, and I don't see any. I'd have such a... No climate policy, a very serious problem for our industry. We will all pay out of our pocket for the lack of climate policy, for the fact that we could not fight out the right periods, the right methods of electricity production in Poland. I think the best method of our foreign policy right now would be... Or else, I ask you to stop conducting foreign policy. It'll only improve our relationship with everyone, with our neighbors. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u13	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Michał Kaminski, who will speak on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u14	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! When we raise them, we can judge by their intentions. Politicians, especially on such a vital issue as foreign policy, are judged by the consequences of their actions. From the evaluation of intentions is God or history, but it is not enough to comfort the living here and now witnesses of these actions. Too often in our history the destructive, paid with the blood of Poles and the independence of their homeland the actions of our leaders were accompanied by the highest intentions. Too often our policy was based on wishful thinking, fantasmagories, phobias and unrealistic plans. Too often fanaticism mixed with false idealism has led to lost opportunities, prospects, to disasters simply. Władysław Warneńczyk paid with his life in unnecessary Poland, and needed by strangers, and above all by Rome, the war with Turkey. Zygmunt III Vasa, led by religious fanaticism, ruined the chances for Poland for the Moscow throne, and the result of our two largest uprisings in the 19th century, which was caused by the lack of any realism, were not only countless victims, but also the real withdrawal of the Polish element first from Kievszczyzna and later from a large part of the rest of the so-called. Governor of the West. Not without a Cossack, Minister, such an important part of our national celebrity and our national memory is built around the memory of truly dramatic disasters and failures. Surprisingly, it does not bother the celebrities every time to thank God for the special exaltation of our nation. Unfortunately, Minister, formally directed by you, and actually by someone completely different, Polish foreign policy follows this rough, though bad path. At the current state ideology level, the destruction of the capital in the uprising and later the fratricidal civil war are considered the greatest reason for pride, while the round table, the bloodless return to freedom, European integration, reconciliation with neighbours and the unprecedented economic success of our homeland are in the eyes of decision makers disgrace, betrayal and ruin. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] From such a philosophy, in which there is a complete reversal of concepts, when failure and noble, but nevertheless stupidity are virtues, while realism and exploitation of opportunities - treachery, nothing good can come. And it doesn't. Foreign policy cannot serve psychotherapy of self-proclaimed saviors of Poland, [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] and it must serve a real nation, living in a real world, not an imaginary world. Minister! There is one fundamental determinant of the Polish national interest, growing above ad hoc international legal solutions and necessarily variable diplomacy and politics games. This determinant is to make up for the civilizational distance that separates us from the West. The fact of the loneliness and defeat of Poland in 1939 had of course many reasons. Among them were uncoverable national fanfares, repulsing the Western public opinion of an undemocratic and xenophobic state, a country that had barely used Hitler's policy against the Czech brothers a year before and took part in the partition of the Czech lands by which we became part of the West, from which we accepted Christianity. [[Well, take it easy with the Czech...]] Yes, this West, which for all, except dictators and fanatics of various ointments, is a symbol of success, prosperity and security, not corruption of moral and fornication. Today, after several centuries, which have not been gracious to us, catching up for several hundred years has served and serves to integrate with the West, military, economic and cultural integration. Unfortunately, we have a problem in this fundamental matter. And this is not about conflicting signals, whether the flag of the European Union is a proverbial rag or Poland in the heart of Europe. They're just words in the end. This is about the real consequences of the current policy of your camp, measured by our image and our influences, measured finally by the real willingness of our partners to take risks in the name of these Polish interests. This risk was taken 20 years ago by Bill Clinton and the rest of his allies when, contrary to Moscow's threats, we were admitted to NATO. Today, after 20 years, the Middle East conference organized by the Americans in Warsaw has not only become a source of humiliation for us, but unfortunately has proved to everyone how little we are today under your rule. And the consolation here is a kind of world record, which is the simultaneous conflict between us and Israel and Iran, two mortal enemies. That's really not the kind of miracle we're looking for. Minister! From the activities of your ambassadors we will remember the unscrewing of the plaque with the name Donald Tusk in the representative office in Brussels and the psychic speech of our representative in Berlin, who was amazed by the Germans about the ruin to which the Polish government supposedly led the PO-PSL government. Minister! Today's speech - although sometimes rhetorical, it is difficult to call it lapidar and spectacular - is unfortunately a fundamental flaw, a drawback of political schizophrenia, which is the participation of a political camp, with which to the detriment of your undoubted diplomatic talents and moral qualifications you have been graciously bound. Well, what a finer one of you is perfectly aware of the ruin of our credibility and image in the international arena today. And either for the reasons of the low, i.e. the desire to squint the eyes of the dark people, or perhaps for the reasons of the high, to simply save what is possible, and to make a good face for the wrong game before Poland and the world, they pretend that everything is basically normal. And yet, Minister, everything is not normal. And it perfectly shows this pathetic picture when humiliated in front of the whole Europe after the 27:1 vote in which she acted against her own countryman, the former Polish Prime Minister, Mrs Beata Szydło was greeted with flowers in Okęc. Of course, it's not in your day, it's in your predecessor's day. Minister! Tell us honestly: Did the number of unfavorable materials for Poland, including those most painful, talking about supposed Polish extermination camps, increase in the world's media, or decrease? Of course, it's gone up. And it's not because of anti-national conspiracies, it's simply because of an idiotic, harmful amendment to the IPN Act. [[Applause]] Minister! However, your time of dexterous rhetorical speech was largely a fairy tale speech. It talked about foreign policy from a fairy tale in which, as you have said beautifully, foreign policy is made up of government, chambers of parliament, president and citizens. Minister! A fairy tale is a description that is the softest of terms, because we all know exactly where your dispositions and orders come from. Only in some places, speaking of real problems, did you face reality, as you did when you were concerned about the right principle, in our view, that the financial benefits associated with membership in the Union should be linked to respect for the principles in force in the Union. It's nothing wrong, Minister, it's a guarantee that no dictator or dictator will use European money to build authoritarian satrapia. [[Applause]] Because the Union is not an ATM, Minister, it is a community of values, a community in which there are no states, nations, and citizens of a better and worse sort. Minister! You have expressed concern about the impact on Poland of the Lisbon majority building system. Talk to the leader of your group about this. I'm sure he'll calm you down because it's his government that's agreed to move away from the Nice vote counting system. It is his government, the government of Jarosław Kaczyński, which, in the name of deepening European integration, agreed, and I stress - rightly - to Poland's greatest treaty concession for Germany after 1989. Minister! To conclude, I would like to thank you for the gallant gesture that was earlier to send your speech to the heads of the clubs. It's a sign of respect for the opponents as well. [[Applause]] And it's not your personal life, it's the opponents of a wretched policy that you're not an architect. Unfortunately, this noble gesture of yours merely highlights how much we are moving away from European standards of parliamentary democracy everywhere else. I would like to express my hope that next year from this tribune we will hear a report and an announcement of a return to the path of security, respect and success, which will serve the policy of the new government, the government of cleaning up after you, but also the government of reconciliation after you, reconciliation between us, Poles, and reconciliation between us, Poles, with the world. [[Applause]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Sorry, but also with concern the club of the Polish People's Party and the European Union of Democrats will not vote for the information of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u15	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Adam Szłapka, who will perform on behalf of the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u16	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Hardly, Minister, who would have thought we'd miss Witold Waszczykowski? Who'd have thought? [[Speak for yourself.]] Last year, during my speech, I said I felt sorry for you, Minister, because you are responsible for a policy department that is not actually there, because what you call foreign policy is just a reflection of internal policy. I told you that you have no political significance in Law and Justice, and that shows how PiS treats foreign policy. It hasn't really changed. During your speech there was still no Jarosław Kaczyński and there was only 1/3 of the Law and Justice Club. I didn't think your political weight in the law and justice environment was so low. Now, Minister, after a year, I do not feel sorry for you because you have done the impossible by taking responsibility for the policy department that does not exist, you have managed to compromise Poland a few times. You said, Minister, in one of the interviews that Donald Tusk was a German candidate for President of the European Council. How small it is, how weak it is, how it exposes our weakness in the European Union. You said, Minister, that Donald Tusk's choice was legal, but ethically questionable. With your words, I would say this: Minister, your choice was legal, but questionable in substance. [[Applause]] This actually sums up what you started with, which is our European policy. Minister, the position of Head of the European Council is not the position of a permanent representative in the UN Security Council, it must be fought. If you can't do that, at least don't interfere with it. You didn't say a word about the article. 7, which is what determines our position in Europe. Is the government against linking European measures with compliance with the rule of law? I'm not surprised at all, but it shows you have a problem with the rule of law. It is in your governments that we are at the margins of European policy. With such legislation as you are now proposing, we would not have entered the European Union in 2004. This is a clear signal that you are treating the European Union as a treasury, and your slogans about Europe of homelands are euphemism, the definition of Europe only national interests, national egoisms, and this is just a step towards a very dangerous concert of powers for us. You have absolutely no vision of European policy. [[Applause]] You've talked a lot about safety. It's hard to disagree with those slogans. It is good that you have not changed at least the vision of our security policy, which we have been implementing consistently for 30 years, but you are doing it quite badly and this is seen in the case of modernization of the army or permanent American installations in Poland. Energy policy is an example of such a poor timing. Baltic Pipe? Well done, but you haven't mentioned that, just as our dependence on Russian gas is falling in proportion, our dependence on coal is growing in proportion. In security policy, relations with the United States are crucial. They've never been so weak before. We waited a very long time for President Duda to visit the United States, and then he signed the so-called. A standing declaration, otherwise you can't call it. Regional cooperation. Some interesting initiatives, such as the Tri-marine initiative, remain slogans. The world championship, Minister, is the Visegrad Group - a great initiative and your eyeball in the head. What happened? Poland has cancelled the Visegrad Group Summit (V4) in Israel, all countries have not jointly and severally arrived at the summit. No, wait, the V3 summit took place. The measure of the embarrassment of the Polish government is a photo of the amused, pursuing their policy leaders of the countries of Central Europe. Minister, the Middle East is this year's hit. The Anglo-Saxons say, "We do things impossible right away, and we need a moment for miracles. Impossible corruption of your own initiative with Israel and with the United States has been settled by the IPN Act. A miracle, which is at one conference, organized by us, ruining our relationship with Israel and Iran, it's black... Congratulations, Minister, bravo. What was the role of Poland? We've organized catering. What goals has Poland achieved? [[Applause]] Minister, jokes should be short. Eastern politics, relations with Ukraine are strategically important to us, and you frozen them and put them on the altar of the fight for extreme electorate. Talking, whispering reality isn't gonna change that. Your speech should contain a vision. Your speech contained no vision, your speech was merely words that could be defined by the word "guide," nothing else. What you said, Minister, is a new literary species. What you said is a chat without an idea. I'm not even gonna get you to resign. Just get the Ministry ready to take over the new Foreign Minister in November, who will implement foreign policy. On behalf of the Modern Club, I apply to reject the information of the Foreign Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u17	Welcome to speak on behalf of the wheel now! Mr Richard Petru. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u18	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Since 1989 Polish foreign policy has been one of the most important elements of raising the strength and importance of the Polish state. Unfortunately, since 2015 we have only a downward curve, and the last year is indeed a disaster in terms of our position in the European Union. Notice that since 2015 Polish foreign policy has been a source of problems to solve. This is a reason to compromise the Polish state in the international arena, and within the country it is a reason to shame millions of Poles. Our country is being ignored, attacked and ignored in the most important processes in Europe. It is naive of you to believe that the exchange of a minister from unpleasant to more pleasant will change our position in the European Union. The construction of the European Union is based on fundamental values such as the rule of law, tolerance, democracy. And these values are alien to you. As long as the policy of the PiS governments is to violate constitutional principles or the principles of the rule of law, relations with the European Union will be very bad. Ladies and gentlemen, there's an art hanging over us all the time. 7. Yesterday, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Minister was willing to say that we won this case. Congratulations on your sense of humor. It is a similar win as 27:1 of its time in Brussels. Ladies and gentlemen, you know very well that you are losers in the European Union, and you think that you are weak in your position. You'll make up for your relationship with the United States. But it is that the United States will respect us when we have a strong position in the European Union. And our importance in the European Union is unfortunately none. I'll say it again, none at all. There is no way that Poland has a good relationship with the US with such a weak position in the European Union. That is why, unfortunately, we are treated per leg by the United States. That's why there was no chair for President Andrzej Duda to sign a declaration at the White House. Therefore, in this stupid conflict, which triggered the IPN Act, the United States voted against Poland without a thought, and on the side of Israel. Therefore, last month the Secretary of State of the United States disrespectfully referred to Poland, demanding compensation for the Jewish estates left in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, our importance in the Visegrad Group has weakened. When Prime Minister Morawiecki refused to go to Israel, the group leaders ignored you and went to this meeting themselves. The Weimar Triangle is gone. Minister, why aren't there any meetings with German and French foreign ministers? Ladies and gentlemen, in fact, our policy is that we are still on our knees before the United States. They won't respect us until we get off our knees, Minister. And then there's a chair for President Andrzej Duda. Instead of effective action on posted workers - I ask - what actions have been taken? Have you taken any action on the budgetary perspective, which, all indications, will be much worse than the previous one? In fact, all your energy is going to move the moment of difficult decisions on the rule of law in Brussels. You have a mouth full of phrases about Polish industry, but when it comes to buying equipment for the Polish army, there is no offset. Such shopping is the best way to finish off Polish industry. Did you know that, as a result of the confusion around IPN, the wording "Polish death camp" appeared 25 million times on the Internet and only 1 million times for comparison? This is the effect of the confusion you've created. This is a mess, not a foreign policy. We held a conference in Warsaw against Iran de facto and played the role of a hotel boy who introduces guests to the salons. And it was the United States that made Iran's deal, and they should have had that beer themselves. Minister, a few questions. First of all, where's the wreckage? What did you do to get him down? [[Applause]] What did Poland receive in exchange for the anti-Iran conference? Ladies and gentlemen, question about offset: Why are the actions that are being taken by the Polish government really aimed at eliminating the Polish industry? How can you buy equipment from Americans without providing production in Poland? Why is the Ministry so generously supporting Fr.Rydzyk? Is it in line with the Polish state rhyme to support such radical and extreme universities? I have a question: Is the action of Minister Ziobra in line with the policy of the Polish government, namely the request to the Constitutional Tribunal to examine the compatibility with the Constitution of the EU Treaty? Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, you're rewriting history. Names such as Skubiszewski, Olechowski, Bartoszewski and Geremek were the names we could be proud of. Unfortunately, we cannot be proud of your politics, we must be ashamed of it. And isn't it humiliating, Minister, that Jarosław Kaczyński called you an experiment? And isn't our entire policy of the past few years an experiment? I'm sorry to say that this is embarrassment, ignorance and infantilism. We're gonna have to undo this as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u19	Thank you very much. I invite you to address Mr Michael Jach, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u20	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In my capacity as Chairman of the Parliamentary Committee on National Defence, my main concern is security policy within the framework of foreign policy. Minister... [[There's no minister.]] ...I would like to stress strongly that security policy is one of the greatest successes of foreign policy in recent years. As a country that was treated as a member of NATO in the second league four years ago, we have acquired the status of one of the most important links of the Alliance, and on the eastern flank we are a country that introduces security standards. Through active politics, together with our neighbours, we have led to the situation that within the framework of the eFP - an extended presence - allied troops are stationed in the region in the strength of three battalion battle groups, and in Poland there is an American armored brigade, which serves, which is constantly trained together not only with the Polish Armed Forces. In Szczecin, the Northern-East Multinational Corps has increased its readiness to VJTF level, which is very high combat readiness, and is now responsible for the security of the entire Baltic Sea region as the largest NATO-Russian command in the region. Poland also feels responsible for security throughout Europe, as well as on other continents. Currently, about 1500 Polish soldiers take part in many missions in various parts of the world. Our ships participate in NATO's permanent maritime groups in the North Sea, the Mediterranean and the Black Sea. And most importantly, we have stepped up and continue to strengthen bilateral political-military cooperation with our most important ally, the United States. Prospects for the development of Polish-American cooperation are outlined in September 2018 by the President of the Republic of Poland and the President of the United States of America, the declaration "Defending freedom and building prosperity through the Polish-American strategic partnership." It extends the possibilities of supporting US administration to deliver security priorities, including strengthening the US military presence in Poland. Our priorities in these relations include, first of all, the extension of the presence of allied forces, including the US, in Poland and in the region in the framework of strengthening the eastern NATO flank, second, joint projects in the field of security and defence, such as the installation of the Aegis Ashore missile defence system in Redzików and the cooperation of aviation forces. Now we're talking to the United States not about whether there's going to be a further extension, but about how big this extension will be and how detailed it's going to look. The strategic partnership between Poland and the United States has become a significant component of the transatlantic community, and maintaining strong transatlantic ties is in the interests of all on both sides of the Atlantic. This is not only the interest of Poland - the United States also benefits from these relationships. We are actively involved in security in regional relations: within the Visegrad Group (V4), the Bucharest format (B9) or the countries of the Baltic Sea region, from the level of the President of the Republic, through the government, to the interparliamental relations mentioned earlier by Minister Chaputowicz. Within these contacts We have repeatedly heard opinions that Poland is a responsible ally, which should play a significant role in our region in the field of security. We have very good military cooperation with our neighbours from behind the Oder. Our troops regularly train on the ground on both sides of the border, and the Multinational North-East Corps, thanks to the joint efforts of the Framework States, Poland, Germany and Denmark, receives increasingly serious NATO-Russian tasks and its role is growing. Poland is actively involved in the European Union's common defence and security policy. We are particularly interested in participating in the European Defence Fund (EDF) and permanent presence in PESCO. The capabilities of the European Defence Fund should increase the level of technology and equipment of the armed forces of the Republic of Poland, and within the framework of the PESCO we participate in the Military Mobility programme, which aims to facilitate the regrouping of troops, improve their mobility when regrouping between different countries. Poland's security in foreign policy has already achieved a great deal. This is, as I said at the beginning, the great success of all the institutions that have taken part in this. As chairman of the Parliament's Committee on National Defence, I would like to thank all those institutions that have proven so effective over the last 3.5 years in creating one of the foundations of our strategic security. Minister! I also wish on your hands that this work on external security should continue in the current way, because with internal defence capabilities, we cannot think of complete security without maintaining a strong pillar of allied cooperation. Our alliances at the moment guarantee us that in a situation of threat, but also in the current policy we can count on support, we can count on our security to grow and guarantee sovereignty and independence of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u21	Thank you. I invite Mrs Joanna Mucha, who will present the next part of the speech on behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u22	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The absence of Jarosław Kaczyński during your exposé is probably the best summary of rank... [[And so is Grzegorz Schetin.]] Foreign policy, for you, for the PiS. And as for the summary... [[And so is Grzegorz Schetin.]] ...you said yourself that your exposé is a summary of your nearly four years. So let's get this straight. This has been the worst foreign policy in the last 30 years. Since 1989, we have been trying to integrate with international structures in different structures, in different formats. We have gained a stronger position than the one that would result from our economic and international position. You've ruined everything. [[Applause]] But I will focus on what concerns the European Union. Let's take a look, Minister, your European allies. This will be helped by Prof. Ryszard Legutko, I would remind you, Vice-President of the Party of European Conservatives and Reformists, who a few days ago was kind to give an interview for the Financial Times. The whole text is about how to bring together a batch of EU skeptics. It mentions, in this text, Debout la France, the Rise of France. In February 2019 the party declared its intention to join the European Conservatives and Reformists faction. We have a Dutch Forum for Democracy that wants to bring Holland out of the European Union. In recent weeks, they have announced that they want to cooperate with your faction after the election. And there's the Italian League. Mr. Salvini. Let's stay with him for a while. He was in favour of the disintegration of the Union and the return of Europe of national states. It's a slogan that also appears very often in your statements. He has repeatedly criticised sanctions imposed on Russia following the annexation of Crimea. He spoke of them as economic madness, remember? His party was the first party in Europe to publicly accept the results of the illegal referendum which incorporated the Crimea into the Russian Federation. In 2017, he signed a cooperation agreement with One Russia, Putin's party. He also cooperates with others. with the National Unification of Marine Le Pen and the Freedom Party of Geert Wilders. And a cherry on the cake: Salvini supported the initiative of Steve Bannon, former advisor to Donald Trump, who is trying to persuade European populists to cooperate before the May elections. Anyone in this room know who's financing Steve Bannon? [[Putin.]] Or maybe one more question: Who financed Matteo Salvini's party? [[Voices from the courtroom: Putin.]] How comforting it was for you to meet President Kaczyński. Just a meeting with the Deputy Prime Minister of a large European country. [[The question is who's funding you.]] But you, Professor Legutko, solves any doubts. He says he hopes to be in the alliance with the League and Mr. Salvini. [[Bravo, this is your place.]] The Salvini - Kaczyński meeting was very successful - meeting Salvini and Kaczyński was very successful. Mr Legutko clearly states that the differences between EU policies towards Russia and Salvini's policies do not prevent them from being part of a single faction. You don't mind. It doesn't bother these parties to be natural allies - that's what you say, Mr. Legutko, Minister. But let's get back to your faction. There are still British Conservatives there. I quote Mr Waszczykowski during the debate in January 2016: The most important European partners, first of all the UK, with which we not only understand many important elements of the European agenda. Now let's look at your allies, your natural allies. Leaving the Netherlands from the Union is wanted by the Dutch working with you. The Italians working with you wanted Italy out of the euro area. The British are moving their country out of the Union right now. Is this the European agenda that you have in common? [[Applause]] Is your true agenda for cooperation the disintegration of the Union? Let us quote Mr Krasnodębski: if the politicians of the European Union continue to act with such political talent and knowledge of things, soon and in Poland we will face the necessity of a referendum - it was about polexit, ladies and gentlemen. [[Yes, sir.]] This is how you explain to your constituents how to get Poland out of the European Union? [[Applause]] You're gonna explain this to me? No, politicians like Matteo Salvini no longer call for the disintegration of the Union, but for a change from the inside. President Kaczyński also announced the writing of a new European treaty. You and Salvini are gonna write this treaty? What about Marine Le Pen? Wilders? Bannon? [[Keep your voice down. Keep it down, don't have to be so loud, calm.]] [[Don't bother.]] Whose money will you write this treaty for? The Treaty to change the Union from the centre or the Treaty to scatter the Union from the inside, Minister? You know, there's a very simple question, Minister. Lacmus paper of your intentions towards the Union. Emmanuel Macron recently proposed a ban on financing European parties from foreign sources. Your natural allies will not be delighted. I have a simple question: will you support this proposal? [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] Will you be in favour of banning the financing of European parties from abroad? [[Outside of Europe.]] Or do you think Vladimir Vladimir Putin should continue to influence European politics? [[Applause]] To say that you lack a constructive voice in the European Union is not to say anything. You do not speak, you do not express your opinion on the important issues that are happening today in the European Union. The debate is currently underway between Emmanuel Macron and Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer. Grzegorz Schetyna replied, took part in this debate. Today, its text was published in 12 European newspapers. [[Where is he?]] Where is your voice in this debate? [[Applause]] Where is the Polish voice in this debate? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Nobody wants to listen.]] Topics literally from the last few days: EU monitoring of foreign investment. What is Poland's position on the Huawei case? Fighting the European Union against misinformation. What impact will the ECB have on Polish banks? Finally, the euro area budget, which is an incredibly important topic for us. No commitment on your part. No commitment on your part. You treat the Union like an ATM: they give money, so you have to be there. But the Union is a community of values, those values that are culturally alien to you - the rule of law, the rule of law, the three divisions of power, human rights, individual freedom. The European Union is the greatest success in the last century. The Union is the only area where citizens get rich under conditions of external and internal security. Internal security, that is, the protection from evil power, from its perversions. You don't get it: it's an inseparable value package. One element cannot be removed from it. There would be no EU prosperity without the rule of law, and there would be no EU prosperity without guaranteeing the rights of the individual. Poles dreamed of Europe for decades, hundreds of years. Today you bring us out of this Europe - crawling polyxit is a fact. The Poles won't forgive you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u23	Thank you, Member. And I invite Mr Piotr Apel, Kukiz15, to present the position of this club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u24	Thank you very much. It is a pity that the Minister is leaving, but I hope that this will be passed on to him, because in his speech the Minister spoke about such things that we all agree on: that Poland must be strong, Poland must be powerful, Poland has plenty of opportunities. On the other hand, I wanted to tell the Minister and I hope that this will be passed on, that with good intentions this hell is paved. I listened to that speech, and I'm sure it's up to the seventh circle. Until the seventh circle, this road is already ready, because we have dealt only with wishful thinking, some story, some story - we want everything to be, and no concrete, no concrete achievements. Because we're not gonna call it the achievement of Kraków raccoons or the launch of additional airlines, because that's - for God's sake! - it's not the foreign minister's case. I missed one more very important thing, one very important thing, one very important word. I'm sorry. Sorry about the Middle East conference. I apologize for not being an effective minister in enforcing what the United States should do for us. Because of what we're doing for the United States. I am sorry that instead of taking care of Polish business, I am doing this to continue to build internal policy at the expense of our external policy. That's what's missing, that's the one word I'm sorry about. This is where the young people sit. Such a foreign policy undermines their future, hinders their good functioning in the future. Because how should Poland be a respected country if we agree to be platooned in our faces? So we're platooned in our faces, and we're still happy, and we're still announcing that this is a success. What's the difference? What happened to us after that unfortunate Middle Eastern conference? The next thing you know, it's a question of shopping, miserable shopping without an offset. I understand that the plan of the Ministry is that offset is unnecessary, employment for Polish workers in Poland is unnecessary, because in a moment the visas will be abolished and these workers will be able to work in factories in the United States and build equipment for us in the United States, not in Poland. Because that's what it looks like. Offset is that we give the opportunity to earn our weapons industry. When we talk about security, one of the key safety elements is a well-functioning, efficient and rich system that allows us to build weapons, military equipment, and this was neglected, among others. It's because of such terrible deals. I have one question here: Is there any one point where you disagreed with the United States? Just for a rule, even for a healthy balance? And the second question is, Is there at least one point -- apart from promises, apart from stories, except for some future-stained Trump fort -- is there anything we've got from the United States? Because I have doubts that this deal is paying off, and foreign policy is not and should not be based solely on the hope of gratitude, that someday someone will give us something out of gratitude for being okay. Politics is a tough trade. Foreign policy is the hard negotiation of Polish interests, Polish interests - not the current interests of the political party, so as to win the next elections, not building a story that will make it possible to make enemies in the European Commission, in other European countries. Really, if someone thinks that by insulting, creating some fictional intellectual creation, which is called an enemy in the European Union, they will win elections and will still want to be called a patriot, they make a mistake, because patriotism is a hard fight for our interests, for our Polish interests, for our future. I am sure that it is not easy in the European Union that there are countries that have their interests and they are often contrary to our interests. Yes, sir. On the other hand, the wisdom of foreign policy is to search for and interact with those countries that have a common interest in this particular case. Looking for allies. And how are we to be taken seriously by any country when our closest friends from V4 so far seem to be doing the same thing to us as in Israel? This is a scene that should be shown to all young diplomats as an example of a disaster that should not be allowed in life. The scene in which we give up, we try to force something in this way upon Israel, the word: I apologize for all these slanders, but in fact we show our weakness and our powerlessness. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u25	Thank you very much. I invite you to present the position of Mr Paweł Pudłowski's Modern Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u26	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We want Poland free, safe and developing, compatible with its neighbours. Poland, of which we are proud of foreign policy. Unfortunately, Poland under the rule of Law and Justice has become a country with a small and decreasing influence, which has been the first time in history to start the Article procedure. 7. This is particularly evident in the financial perspective of the Union. The biggest cuts are in the areas Poland needs most. Isolation, dominating nationalism, populism and xenophobia make the prospect of polexit no longer a hidden strategy of the PiS, and it becomes a fact. [[Applause]] Europe's opponents can get up to 1/3 seats in the European Parliament. The PiS is among them. He's fresh out of meetings with Viktor Orbán and Matteo Salvini. Guess who's happy. Vladimir Vladimir Putin, a friend of your closest friends. [[Applause]] In addition, there has been a significant deterioration of Polish-German relations... [[German? German?]] ...the cooperation of the Weimar Triangle has been interrupted, but the electorate must be mobilized, preferably by creating an external enemy, and the Germans fit the most. The Visegrad Group - you have heard a lot about it today - does not work, has no initiative ability. Its consistency has fallen in votes on posted workers. No Visegrad military and industrial cooperation strategy. Mr Andrzej Duda, when he was running for president, said that Poland should not be in the main trend of the European Union. You have fulfilled that promise. [[Applause]] Only the United States is left with serious allies. But how different these accounts are today. Despite the beautiful words, it is fair to say that Poland has ceased to be a partner of the United States and has become a sub-contractor willing to overpay for military equipment, raw materials and so buy the attention of American politicians. [[Applause]] The symbol of these relations is a photograph of the Polish President standing at Trump's desk at the time of signing a political declaration or conference on which you had no influence, which concerned an area where Poland has no strategic interests, which antagonized our allies, on which there were no major players and from which not even the smallest peace plan for the Middle East came out. The result, ladies and gentlemen, was the accusations of the Israeli Prime Minister against Poland and Poles, the anti-Iranian tirades of the Vice President of the United States, the demand for restitution of property and the cancellation of the Visegrad Group summit and its subsequent deliberations with Israel, but without Poland. Another example is Ukraine. It's the closest and, it would seem, strategic neighbor. Instead of building a strong relationship, you'd rather fight for history. We have had the worst relations with Ukraine for many years, and you promised that Poland would be part of the Normandian format. Instead, Marshal Terlecki travels to armed conflict areas and shoots himself a picture in a helmet, a bulletproof vest and a cigarette in his mouth. Instead of foreign policy, you're kidding yourselves. You promised to retrieve the wreckage of the plane from Russia. Did something happen in this case besides spending $20 million on the Smolensk commission? Oops! Unfortunately, we haven't found anything - says the MON website. Relations with Russia do not exist at all. You write that the isolation of the Eastern Neighbor is not and will not be your goal, that you support the idea of maintaining dialogue with Russia. Really? Who? When? Where? I do not expect miracles, but I see no reason to block a small border traffic in the Kaliningrad circuit. Your foreign policy can be defined in one word - a fall. Poland needs a strong and modern defence industry linked to allies. Meanwhile, the Polish Army still does not have modern helicopters, submarines. There's nothing really, not even enough uniforms. You are showing how to disregard European Union law, because it is easier than an effective fight for Polish interests, for the interests of entrepreneurs, drivers, farmers, consumers and all those who believe that we have the right to breathe clean air. But you people don't respect nature. You don't like Europe, and for those who think or feel differently, you have great contempt. Minister! You're a highly valued professor. You're a dorm and you should stay that way. For the last 25 years, we have never witnessed such an extreme marginalisation of the importance of the Minister and the Foreign Ministry. You're the company now. 20th anniversary of Poland's accession to NATO, 15th anniversary of membership of the European Union. Poland needs Europe. Europe needs Poland. That's what John Paul said. II. You're throwing away this legacy. The Union is a mortal organism, and we must all take care of it. A Europe that has weak institutions without common values, which means little more than the market, is contrary to the Polish interest and our justification of the state. In such a Europe, Minister, Poland will lose the most. If you don't understand that, go away. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u27	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Robert Winnicki, a non-associated Member. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u28	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I must first congratulate Minister Chaputowicz, because talking for two hours about something that doesn't exist is really a feat. 2 hours of stories about foreign policy, which the Polish state does not conduct, i.e. 2 hours of confabulation, it is a feat, it is something. Because, of course, instead of Minister Chaputowicz, a much more credible figure, which here should refer to Polish foreign policy today, would be Ambassador Mosbacher. She would stand here and say yes, yes, she will, and we know that then the entire PiS would stand on guard and salute, and that's what she does. Because that was the case with the IPN Act, that was the case with the withholding tax Act, that was the case with the media recolonization, that was the case with the compromise with the Middle East conference. There is no Polish sovereign foreign policy. There is simply vassalism pushed to the limits, pushed to the absolute limits, towards the United States of America. And this Middle Eastern conference today is announced as a success. I really don't know how much champagne it took to drink from the moment of this Middle East conference to announce success, since this conference was dictated to us by strangers against our interests, which they tried badly, among others. Mr. President, somehow disguised, sending his representatives to the Iranian embassy, making all kinds of gestures, pretending that something isn't what it is. After all, this conference was a diplomatic disaster of the century. We have been dictated to a conference in our capital against our interests in the Middle East, which should primarily relate to energy diversification and the search for markets, the largest of which is the Iranian market. We were dictated to a conference in a foreign interest, and those who dictated it to us, the Secretary of State of the United States and the Prime Minister of Israel, came and insulted the hosts. You want me to remind you of that? Really? It was embarrassing. It was embarrassing. [[Yes, you do.]] No one really humiliated Poland after 1989 like you, crawling before the United States and Israel. Nobody humiliated me like that. Please countries, what is the origin of the problem of lack of foreign policy, Polish foreign policy? Genesis is that they just don't care about it in Novgorod. In Novgorodska, they don't care, and there's a rule: the flood is after us. They don't care, and there's only one vector: to subdue everything to Washington, and it's gonna be okay. Well, that's not what's happening. But it's not just stupid, it's not just that we're losing our position, it's not just that we're serious. Visegrad Group. What are we talking about? Is the Visegrad Group blocking Nord Stream II with us? It's not blocking. Does the Visegrad Group vote with us in the European Union? No, I'm not voting. But Orbán is honest. He talked about his strategic partners a year ago in his exposé on foreign policy. [[Russia.]] About Russia, Germany and Turkey. About Russia, Germany and Turkey, not about Poland. Because he knows that Poland is a playable element in this part of the world and in this part of Europe. Just come to Warsaw, pat on who needs to be in Nowogrodzka, remind, I don't know, General Bem, make amends to historical sentiments... [[Monument bet.]] ...and great, everybody's gonna be convinced, a couple of monuments and it's gonna be great, right? Ladies and gentlemen, we are at a very dangerous moment. It's not just weakness, embarrassment, inability. We are at a dangerous moment because the state's policy in the era of shifts to the geopolitical map of the world makes us a front country towards China, against Iran, against all those facing today the United States globally. We are not engaged in any of our interests, and we are exposed to the first shot within the framework of these clashes. And it's doing exactly the opposite of what you're supposed to do. It should be done as follows: Arm itself to the power. And to arm for power is to invest in our army, to modernise our army. And our army is demodernizing faster today, the equipment is breaking down faster than the new one is being bought. That's the truth. That's the first thing. And secondly, you have to do everything in the international arena so that Poland is not on the front line in the confrontation so that it is not on the front line. Because contrary to what you say, what you think, Poland will not be Israel of Europe - it will not have such a position towards the United States as Israel in the Middle East - only Poland today is Guatemala of Europe. And you know what's going on with Guatemala? Guatemala is the country around which the term banana republic was coined, because there the U.S. forces overthrowed the government when the banana plantations were threatened, the U.S. That's how it is today. Unfortunately, Poland is Guatemala of Europe, although you imagine that we are Israel in Europe in relations with Americans. This isn't the way. We repeat as a National Movement, as a Confederacy: a multi-vector foreign policy, and Washington, and Beijing, and Berlin, and Moscow, of course, because Moscow will not evaporate from beyond our borders. Once we close our eyes and make a mess, and go to support the flagships in Ukraine, Russia will not evaporate from beyond our borders. Let's be aware of that. [[On your knees best.]] Multivector foreign policy and, above all, what needs to be said today is the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the PiS: independence, fool. [[Don't be silly.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u29	Thank you, sir. And I invite Mrs Izabela Kloc, Law and Justice to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u30	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Law and Justice Club and, above all, address issues related to EU policy. Mr Chaputowicz, speaking about European issues, in his speech, drew attention to two important events in 2019 on 1 May we will celebrate the 15th anniversary of Poland's accession to the European Union and on 26 May the elections to the European Parliament will be held, which will start a new institutional cycle. These events prompt us to sum up, but also to set new horizons for our European Community. It should be stressed that the balance of Polish membership in the European Union is certainly positive. Poland is becoming a competitive country thanks to investments co-financed by EU funds, open borders and the common market. Our wealth is constantly increasing. Art. 3 The Treaty on European Union states that the objective of the European Union is to ensure peace, its values and the prosperity of its peoples. And it's happening. Poland, thanks to the work of Poles, but also the common agricultural policy and cohesion policy, has increased its GDP by 23% per person since 2004. Today, thanks to good rule by law and justice, 5% economic growth and the sealing of the tax system, we can afford to reduce the income disparities of Poles, but also to the equation for the richer countries of the European Union. Social programs, including recently announced by President Jarosław Kaczyński, serve this purpose. It's a European programme. Thus, Poland makes good use of its participation in the European Community. The locals feel it, too. According to a Eurobarometer survey, 70% Poles believe that membership of the European Union is a good thing and 87% believes that European integration is beneficial for Poland. Our results are higher, much higher than the EU average - 62% respectively And 68%. A debate on its future is currently taking place in the European Union. Undoubtedly, the cause for deeper reflection is Brexit. In the European Parliament, individual Heads of Government present their visions for the development of the European Union. Our Polish vision was presented by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki on 7 July 2018. The Prime Minister presented a diagnosis of existential crises faced by the European Union in recent years, but also a Polish vision of the future of integration, in which a renewal of the social contract guaranteeing European peoples a sense of security and hope for economic prosperity is called for. The Prime Minister focused on three areas: the European Union, as a forpond of the fourth industrial revolution, a deepened common market, a secure union, i.e. aware of geopolitical challenges, ready to respond to them with one voice and finally a citizens' union, a socially sensitive union, supporting and defending its citizens from the strength of global corporations. For more than a week now, the spectrum of President Macron's manifesto has spread around Europe, which has polarised the debate on the future of the European Union. The French President wants more centralization, bureaucracy and new EU institutions. This centralist trend is not new. Over the past few years, the administrative structures of the European Union have increasingly attributed themselves to powers and powers of control, although this is not the case in the Treaty of Lisbon. Many countries, including at our meetings of the Heads of the Committee for Foreign Affairs. The European Union is drawing attention to this great problem. This atmosphere, of course, did not withstand Britain. This is where President Marcon should be agreed that Brexit is a symbol of the EU crisis. It is worth clarifying that it is not the cause, but the result of internal problems affecting the EU community, which results in the declining support of national citizens for integration, especially in Western Europe. Poland is a glorious exception. Poland is also well prepared for this unprecedented situation. Right now, in the Seym, we are investigating laws that prepare us even for this hard brexite. The government is doing everything to ensure that the status of Poles in the Islands does not deteriorate, that their rights are respected, also cares for Polish business and entrepreneurs. It is also worth remembering that unlike many prominent European Union politicians, we have not been offended by the British. We want to continue to develop strategic bilateral, partnership contacts with them, as well as with other countries. As far as Germany is concerned, we share the approach, indeed, to Nord Stream 2, but they are our most important trading partner and NATO's key ally. That's what you have to stick to when you plan your relationship for the next few years. I am also convinced that the upcoming inauguration of the Polish-French Year of Science will become a good pretext for warming the atmosphere on the line Warsaw - Paris. We bet on good bilateral relations because they are the best, proven form of building and cementing international ties. I am also very pleased that the nearest meeting of the Weimar Triangle, the chiefs of the Committee for Foreign Affairs. The European Union will take place on 7 and 8 April in Berlin. We will certainly have a very meaningful and very specific conversation there. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to point out very strongly that Poland is committed to the success of the European Union. We want to strengthen its achievements and maintain unity. After all, the strength of the European Union does not stem from the potential of the countries that create it, because it is different. The strength of the European Union stems from the fact that we form a community. So we should strive for this unity, seek compromises on difficult issues that are not lacking. We must take care of the European Union because we owe it to our citizens. We are at the forefront of all Euro-enthusiasm rankings. So the problem is not Poland, but the countries under the line. Will further centralisation, increasing red tape, imposing further restrictions on Member States encourage the nations at the bottom of this table to like the European Union? I don't think so. According to statistics, Europe is in the hearts of Poles and Poland is the heart of Europe. These words have recently become very popular thanks to the Law and Justice Conventions, but it's not just a media slogan, it's a description of geopolitical reality. Due to its location, growing economic potential and like unbiased euro-enthusiasm, we have every right to believe that Poland will be the driving force behind good changes in the European Union in this new institutional cycle. That is why we must ensure that Europe's heart beats loudly and evenly. We respect President Macron's views, but otherwise we diagnose EU problems and offer other solutions in their case. We do not need a revival, a revolution or even an evolution of the European Union. It is enough to return to sources, i.e. to the Treaty of Lisbon, which highlights the subjective importance of the national states. Their role in the European Union has been, is and, I believe, will remain crucial. And one of the reasons for the democratic and institutional weaknesses of the European Union is, in fact, the lack of the possibility of properly involving national parliaments in its functioning. As a result, citizens have a sense of losing control of the processes that are taking place in the Community. The inefficiency of the so-called procedure has become a symbol of the declining importance of national parliaments in EU lawmaking. A yellow card. This mechanism was intended to prevent the EU institutions themselves, especially the European Commission, and in practice it has become a mockery of democracy. EU statistics included 370 unsuccessful attempts to launch the so-called procedure. A yellow card through national parliaments. It has been successful three times and only in one case has the European Commission withdrawn the project. So we need to talk and discuss solutions for whether it's a red card or a green card that will allow national parliaments to regain their meaning. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, it is optimistic that Poland is not alone in the Union in the fight for the restoration of the national Parliaments due. Support came from the least expected direction. I'm almost done. Listen to this quote at the end: New Europe cannot be created without national states. They bring democratic legitimacy and identification. It is the Member States that formulate and combine their own interests at European level. This is what Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer, the new head of the CDU, wrote in her programming article, the successor to Angela Merkel. CDU politicians have pointed out that Macron's proposals mean an increase in bureaucracy and protectionist practices within the Union. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, many ideas of the French President deserve attention. It calls, among other things, for the new European Council on Innovation has become a global leader in the development of artificial intelligence. We are signing off on this, but we propose that in the plans to reform the European Union, we also reach for the resources of human intelligence, not just artificial intelligence. Human wisdom and creativity have already saved Europe and the world from such oppression. Polish wisdom and creativity have sometimes liberated entire nations from oppression. We want Europe to be the leader of world civilization again. Let us free our collective creativity and wisdom. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u31	Thank you, Member. I invite Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u32	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As we have heard, the Euroelections are coming, so the politicians of the PiS EU flag from the party wiper are moving to the party salons. But I don't believe the politicians of the current power, who for several years have carried out the EU flag out of public space, and then suddenly, when the campaign starts, they appear under it at every opportunity. High Izbo! It is this irresponsible game of the current government with the European Union that raises our greatest concerns today. And this is not just about the eternal conflicts that the PiS is starting with the EU institutions. This is not just about the anti-diplomacy itself, which is practiced by the PiS and which causes us to find ourselves on the margins of talks for Europe, for Poland's key issues. The symbol of this anti-diplomacy is the defeat of PiS 27:1. And it is not even a matter of the fact that the PiS is not able to handle any important matter for Poles in the European Union. Today, you lead Poland along a straight path to leaving the European Union. Your true slogan in the upcoming elections should be: polexit. Yes, polyxit, because this is the one word you can comment on long-term effects, which can soon be caused by, among others, long-term effects. the activities of the Constitutional Tribunal, which is controlled by representatives of the current government. High Izbo! We are on the eve of a ruling of the Court of Justice of the European Union on the rule of law of Poland. It will concern the politicisation of the National Council of Courts, but also the Law on Purgatory in the Supreme Court. When the judgments of the EU Court are not in the opinion of the PiS politicians, you will face the temptation to simply not acknowledge those judgments. Besides, the prominent politicians of the PiS have already talked about it openly. But first, breaking the treaty will lead to serious financial penalties, which you will not be able to pay out of your own pocket. These financial penalties will be covered by the money of Polish citizens. High Izbo! What will happen next when the Constitutional Tribunal decides to submit to the government and the governing party, responding to Zbigniew Ziebra's request that the provisions of the Treaties concerning the possibility of asking preliminary questions are incompatible with the Polish Constitution? This can in practice be seen as the termination of these treaties. You can therefore start an uncontrolled process which will de facto mean the removal of Poland from the European Union. What does that mean? That Poles will queue again after visas, that those who work abroad will lose their right to work, that farmers will lose their subsidies, that poorer regions will lose the means to help them improve their living standards. High Izbo! Even if these black scenarios do not happen, no one can be calm about Poland's membership of the European Union. When the PiS only thinks it's good to get votes to start such an anti-European hysteria, it will. Under the government, the media: supposedly public television and newspapers financed by you with the money of the Treasury companies will certainly be willing to participate in such a campaign. You've already done this once, unleashing an anti-refugee campaign. Now you're doing the same thing, driving up a campaign and causing hysteria directed against people of different sexual orientation. If you think it's worth it, you'll certainly do it the first day after the Europarlia elections. Look at what's going on in Britain. The governments that led to the brexit did not say that Britain was to leave the European Union. These governments just wanted to change the European Union. But no one was able to stop the locomotive. Today, the citizens of the United Kingdom do not know whether the United Kingdom will come out of the European Union, under what rules, whether this will happen at all. Extremely irresponsible politicians have led to a crisis of democracy with centuries of tradition. Take a close look at what is leading to so well-known populism. [[Voice from the room: The mirror needs to be looked at.]] High Izbo! We have to follow common rules or we're gonna run out of room in the community. Therefore, when I look at the real activities of the current ruling team, the real activities of the PiS, I have no doubt that your slogan in the upcoming campaign should be polexit. As the old saying says, politics is recognized by the people around them. I do not believe politicians who say positive things about Europe once a year and are surrounded every day by people who express their dislike for the European Union. I do not believe politicians who surround themselves with people who call our common European flag an EU slut. I don't believe politicians who say otherwise for years before the elections, but what they do after these elections. I don't believe in Europhobic PiS. I believe that the foundation of Polish security and Polish freedom is the presence of Poland in the European Union. I see that the PiS is a party that does everything to destroy this foundation of Polish democracy, freedom and security. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u33	Thank you, Member. I invite Mr Richard Galla, a non-member, to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u34	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Referring to the information presented by you about the tasks of Polish foreign policy in 2019, I would like to raise one of the most important issues concerning Polish foreign policy, i.e. Polish-German relations. Minister! As you have noted, Germany is our most important trading partner and neighbour. You calculated the number of meetings, intergovernmental consultations, you said that Polish workers work for German GDP. I think you will also agree that the state of the German economy has a significant impact on the growth of the level of the economy in Poland, and a large number of people working in Germany also affect that we can talk about 500+ or 13th pension today. I live in a region where I often see growing economic operators. Cooperation and trade with German partners makes these companies grow and create new jobs. I also see an accounting office in the vicinity of my office. At the turn of the year, there are powerful lines of workers who probably work in Germany, but pay taxes and settle here. Let's just enjoy this. I will quote here the words of one of the experts in the area of energy policy, who said that in terms of energy security, we are a few years behind Germany. We should take the German way, make some adjustments, and we'll be fine. I think that this statement could serve as a motto for us in other areas of the economy as well. I think that having such a partner, being part of such a common economic organism is really a success. You also mentioned the planned round table meeting. I see Minister Szynkowski a.k.a. Skark has left. It was him who said a few days ago that a plenary session would be held in Warsaw in the middle of June this year. I'm very happy for you. I'm not hiding that I've been a part of the round table for almost two terms. I regret that such meetings have not been held in the last four years. This is important to my environment. As you know, I come from the German minority community and the participation of representatives of the German minority in the round table was an event, I would say very important. It also affects the fact that the results of the work are visible on both sides: both on the German minority side in Poland and on the Polish side in Germany. [[But on the Polish side there is no Polish in Germany.]] Minister! There are results, and I think we'll be able to talk about it, but not within the time I have here. On the other hand, I would like to address the Minister, and the point is that we should also be clear. One of the pillars is education, including teaching German as a mother tongue. As an environment, we have been working for many years to improve the level of teaching this language. We know that this depends on both the curriculum, textbooks and other scientific assistance as well as qualified teachers. That is why we have proposed and continue to propose work on a strategy for teaching the German language. I think that this is a very important thing and the result of the work of the round table will be a positive decision from the Polish government. On the other hand, I would like to refer to a certain, I would say, dispute between the national minority and the Ministry of National Education in the field of teaching German in the 7th-VIII primary schools. This is the effect of the reform introduced, which caused the elimination of middle school or the elimination of middle school, eight primary school classes were introduced, and we have a problem with that in Class VII and Class VIII. This problem was even recently presented to the Committee on National and Ethnic Minorities, which was in the war. Silesian. Minority representatives, as well as representatives of educational institutions, talked about this. I would therefore like to ask: Minister, can we find out in which composition these talks will be held? Is it going to be this old composition or is it going to be changed? I know that the Foreign Minister certainly takes the lead in these talks. I would like to ask you about specific topics that will be discussed. And one last thing I'd like to ask you. The Minister probably spoke twice in his speech about teaching German abroad, i.e. for Polonia. As a German citizen of Poland, I would like to ask: What will be the offer for the community of minorities as part of the work of the round table? Will what I said earlier be the end result of the round table work? On the other hand, Minister, I declare a really far-reaching cooperation on Polish-German matters. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u35	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Józef Leśniak, Law and Justice, to present the position of this club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u36	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The most important partners of Poland, both bilaterally and multilaterally, are Germany, France and the United Kingdom. In my speech, I would like to say a few words about the relationship with each of these countries. Germany is Poland's largest economic partner, our ally in NATO, and has since this year also been a permanent member of the UN Security Council. Recently, Poland's position as an important partner in Germany has been strengthened. According to the coalition agreement signed in March Ub. The three leaders of the party's government: CDU, CSU and SPD relations with Poland are among the priorities of German foreign policy. The Government of the Federal Republic of Germany stresses the particular importance of the German-Polish partnership. It is to be based on reconciliation between Germany and Poles and shared responsibility for Europe. Dialogue between societies has a particular role to play in bilateral relations. The coalitioners also announced the strengthening of cooperation within the Weimar Triangle. Warsaw was the second capital after Paris visited by chancellor Angela Merkel and German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas after the oath of the new German government in March 2018. It should be noted that in 2019 four bilateral meetings took place between Prime Minister Morawiecki and Chancellor Merkel and five meetings between the heads of Polish and German diplomacy. We are talking with Germany about the most important issues of the bilateral and European agenda. We are building a real partnership based on the right of each party to articulate its interests, including in cases where we have divergent opinions, for example. Nord Stream 2. We should be pleased to refer to the intensive Polish-German dialogue, whose important element was the restoration of the regularity of Polish-German intergovernmental consultations. Their 15th edition took place on 2 November Ub. in Warsaw with the participation of the majority of the constitutional ministers of both governments. An important point of the consultation was the adoption of the political declaration of Polish and German Foreign Ministers, which sets out the plans and priorities for bilateral cooperation. An important point of the consultation was the adoption by foreign ministers of Poland and Germany of a declaration of their willingness to develop a strategic partnership between our countries. The historic dimension had bilateral visits of the presidents who took part in the celebration of the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence in Warsaw and then in Berlin. Parliamentary meetings are held regularly. As a member of the Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs, I will say that the cooperation of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Sejm and the Bundestag already has a long tradition. The last meeting took place in November Ub. R. in Berlin. It was an opportunity for a very good, substantive discussion about what we have in common, but also about what we disagree on, e.g. o Nord Stream 2. By the way, it was also an opportunity to hear that in Germany there are very different points of view for this investment and the Polish opinion on Nord Stream 2 is understood among many German politicians. Both committees also adopted a common position in which they condemned Russian aggression against Ukrainian ships in the Kerchen Strait. In Polish-German relations there is a very clear need for historical dialogue in order to equip the young generation with solid and reliable historical knowledge. One of its elements is the initiative to build a monument to the Polish victims of World War II in Berlin. As a Polish society, we hope that the upcoming 80th anniversary of the outbreak of World War II will bring concrete actions by the German party on these issues, aimed at raising awareness about the crimes of the Third Reich against the Polish people and their commemoration. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Polish-French bilateral relations are governed by the Treaty on friendship and solidarity of April 1991. Since 2004, an intergovernmental consultation has been organised under the leadership of the Prime Minister of Poland and the President of France. In 2008, presidents Buty Kaczyński and Nicolas Sarkozy signed a declaration on the Polish-French strategic partnership, and in 2013 they signed a cooperation programme for the years 2014 to 2018, which was the basic common programming document for the development of bilateral relations. In 2018 there was a visit by Minister of Foreign Affairs Jack Chaputowicz in Paris. Parliamentary cooperation has also developed intensively, among others. There was a two-time meeting of the Senate Marshal Stanisław Karczewski with his counterpart in France. Meetings with the French Minister for European Affairs Nathalie Loiseau confirmed the will to intensify the bilateral relations of the French party. Work is ongoing to discuss the priorities of cooperation for the coming period and details of the planned visit of President Emmanuel Macron of France in Poland. France was, is and will remain one of Poland's most important partners both in bilateral relations and within the European Union. Our bilateral relations have been subject to various turbulence recently, and certainly today they are not in line with the aspirations of both countries and the potential of these relations. Mr Chaputowicz referred to this yesterday in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Restoring these relations of proper place in the foreign policy of both countries is an important task of our diplomacy. This is particularly important for reviving the format of the Weimar Triangle. Poland is ready for a new opening with France, but much depends on our French partners. Through cooperation and joint action, we can bring our countries closer together, as example is the Polish-French Year of Science, which we will celebrate this year. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, We have a strategic partnership with Great Britain. Great Britain remains one of Poland's leading partners in both bilateral and multilateral format. We share a common view on a number of issues, such as the war in Ukraine, Russia's assessment of actions, energy security and growth of economic competitiveness, the fight against terrorism and organised crime, and the fight against the global economic crisis. Both countries are interested in working together internationally to promote democracy, expand the sphere of international security and development assistance. The United Kingdom is paying close attention to the Polish policy assessments of the European Union against its eastern neighbours, including Ukraine and Belarus. Poland and the United Kingdom also share a common view of strengthening transatlantic relations. Meetings of prime ministers and ministers are held regularly. Among the undoubted successes of Polish diplomacy last year is the organisation of December intergovernmental consultations. It is interesting to see the format of the square, i.e. the meetings of foreign ministers for the defence of both countries. The Belvedere Forum is an excellent platform for cooperation between civil society, university and business. This year's edition of the forum took place at the Royal Castle in Warsaw, recently, on March 6. We have heard from the Minister that many of these formats are unique because Britain only has such relations with its closest partners. Our aim is to maintain and deepen these relations also after the expected exit of the UK from the European Union. The best scenario for Britain to leave the European Union would be so-called. organized Brexit, i.e. the kind that will take place on the basis of a contract. With the brexitu deadline approaching - and by March 29 there are only two weeks left - the atmosphere is getting tense and uncertainty is growing. Other solutions are more and more likely, such as translating the term brexitu into May or even to a more distant date or so-called. Hard Brexit. This would be the worst possible solution for both the UK and the European Union. Poland, however, is preparing for all scenarios, also for hard Brexit. Our priority is to provide Poles and Polish companies with maximum predictability and safety of commercial operations. Hundreds of thousands of Poles living and working in the UK also demand that legal regulations guarantee their rights in the absence of a divorce agreement with the European Union be established. That is why on these days in the Polish Sejm the laws governing the rights of British citizens in Poland are being prosecuted so that our citizens in the UK can obtain the same rights on a reciprocal basis. We want to develop a strategic partnership with Great Britain also after brexita. We know from the statements of the British Government that there is such will on the other side. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u37	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Bartosz Arłukowicz, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, to speak on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u38	Mrs. Marshal! I listened to Mrs Gosievska's club speech. Sometimes I feel like you're living in some alternate reality. You still get off your knees, you still feel like you're in some kind of European contempt, you still have to fight somebody. Ladies and gentlemen, no one looks at you with contempt. People look at you with surprise and do not understand what has been happening in Poland for a long time. The symbol of these 30 years after 1989, the symbol of 1989 was Tadeusz Mazowiecki walking and a sign of Victoria greeting the crowds. The symbol of 1989, the symbol of Polish foreign policy, was Lech Wałęsa. Then there was great success, as if entering the gates of Western civilization, joining NATO, a sense of such security, an international community. Then there was euphoria, joy of joining the European Union - during these 30 years - and a volcano of the development of Polish infrastructure and Polish society. Poland made a civilization leap after joining the European Union. Roads, schools, kindergartens, hospitals, parks, streets, cities were built. Suddenly, we symbolically end this 30-year-old in such a great sorrow that you have led to. You have conflicted with all of us, we have absolutely no one to talk to in the European Union. You put us in a corner, you embarrass us every day. Finally, the symbol of your foreign policy, the symbol of everything you do in foreign policy, was protruding from behind the great bouquet of flowers Jarosław Kaczyński welcoming the leader of change in Europe Beata Szydło. 27 to 1 - this is your symbol for foreign policy. The next symbol you have given Poland is bent in half by the president of the state signing the document on Trump's desk. These are your symbols of foreign policy. But to be quite serious: What have you done for nearly a million Poles living in Britain today? What security guarantees have you created for these people in connection with the brexite threat? What agreements have you signed with the British Government guaranteeing health security, social security, living businesses working there? You didn't do anything. You're looking helpless because you're all alone. And when you look at how you are building the image of Poland in Europe, it can actually be said that the symbol of all this, such a dot over your foreign policy, is today's communication about the fate of your great Fort Trump project, which was presented by no one but the president of the state, proposing such solutions in the public debate. Today we have a symbolic end to it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u39	Mr Jan Klawiter, a non-attached Member, will speak as another speaker. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u40	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Rado! High Seym! If we are talking about foreign affairs, of course our main topic is the European Union. The European Union should be a Union of sovereign states. Please note that sovereign states have been forming for hundreds of years, and sometimes have a thousand years of their history before reaching a certain level of development. It cannot be expected that a work as important as the European Union will already have its perfect form in decades. Therefore, today we must rely on the Union of sovereign states and, if sovereign states, of course, countries based on their own currency and their own army. And here the Right of the Republic is different from the ruling party because it does not want a European army to be established. Our umbrella is NATO and our army, and we agree on that. On the other hand, the European army will only obscure all these relationships and cause unnecessary organizational and competent mess. If it is to be a Union of sovereign states, it is to be our army and it is to be NATO as a supranational. And that's where we're basically different. As far as the euro is concerned, it is clear that now the change would be unfavourable, but even though the conditions in the future will change and the potential of Poland will be stronger, our currency is a shield for us to the various difficult situations, such as for example. in Greece or anywhere else, so that they can come out of such crises quickly and defensively. The thing that, unfortunately, is failing in the European Union and which we must, so to speak, act, is the principle of subsidiarity, because this principle, which is repeatedly emphasised by the Union, is not being implemented. The case of bright - climate policy. Climate policy has failed to set objectives because the primary objective of climate policy should be to reduce carbon dioxide emissions. Simple thing, that's it, that's it. Therefore, it should not be said: there is so much renewable energy, so much renewable energy, and so much renewable energy. In that case, we assume that we are setting limits in tonnes or in physical units per person or per country, etc., the specific regime that the state is to achieve by transferring the implementation of this policy, together with its objectives, to the competence of individual countries. In the meantime, we are being imposed on very strict, specific actions, probably also those which, unfortunately, prefer the external industry, the renewable energy industry, etc. Nuclear energy must find its place, because CO2 emissions in this case are the lowest, this is comparable to wind energy, taking into account CO2 emissions per unit of energy obtained. We must therefore make these climate objectives very precise. I am concerned that the German parties agreed before the establishment of the government, concluded an intra-party agreement on the fact that they would restrict, prevent the possibility of raising funds and the possibility of building nuclear power plants across the Union. I understand that they have the right to pursue their policies as they wish, and that they have missed the goals they have set themselves is another matter. On the other hand, they should not limit the ability of others to act in this direction, because there is already a conflict of interest here. That's part of the subject. The second part. There is too little solidarity with poor countries in the world so far. That's what they say: we help and so on. I believe we're helping, we're trying, we think, we're helping a lot. I think we're helping a lot, too little. For me, if, let's say, we donate what we spend on arms to the outside countries, to the poor, that's a lot of help. Of course, there is not really this solidarity in the world, because unfortunately it is something that everyone is looking only at their own interests, and the problem of refugees, the problem of migration will grow because the differences are increasing. And we will not solve this in any other way than by reducing these differences by helping these countries. It must be offensive aid. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And one last thing, the password. There is no promotion of Christian values, which are the foundation of good creation of the state. We are not enough or almost nothing, we are doing nothing in this direction, so that these values are the basis not only of Europe but of the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u41	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Krzysztof Ostrowski, the Law and Justice, to present a further part of this club's position.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u42	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In my speech, I would like to focus on regional cooperation in our region of Europe. When we talk about the structures of such cooperation, the Visegrad Group comes to mind first of all. In recent years, however, new, very interesting and promising forms of cooperation have emerged, such as the Tri-Morga project, the Bucharest Nine and the so-called. the Berlin Process. Nor should we forget the Central European Initiative, which Poland has co-created since 1991. I would like to say a few words about each of these forms. The Visegrad Group is already a brand in itself today. The organization consisting of Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Hungary was established in 1991 and was modelled on existing forms of regional cooperation in Europe, for example. cooperation between Benelux States. It was primarily about agreeing positions and presenting them jointly to large partners. This increased the voice of individual countries and gave a negotiating advantage. In fact, this remains the main task of the group until today. The group's activity focuses on issues relating to the European Union agenda, including: cohesion policy, the common agricultural policy, the multiannual financial framework, the single market, the digital market, the neighbourhood policy, etc. Interesting opportunities include meetings in the V4 formula. For example, on 25 April in Bratislava there will be a meeting of premieres in V4 format plus Japan. In June, the Slovak Tatras are scheduled to meet the Prime Ministers of V4 with the Prime Minister of Austria. The Parliaments of the Visegrad Group also have something to show for it. Regular cooperation shall be carried out at the level of the Presidents of Parliament and of the elected parliamentary committees. And so on. At the last meeting in Bratislava on 26 February, representatives of the V4 Parliaments Committee adopted a declaration presenting a common view on a number of issues on the current political agenda. Among other things, it was presented in the magazine. solidarity with Ukraine, the Russian aggression was condemned and the Nord Stream 2 pipeline was jointly spoken against. Visegrad cooperation, however, is more than just political cooperation. Since 2000, the International Visegrad Fund has been operating. The grant and scholarship programmes implemented over the past years have helped develop networks between NGOs, academic and scientific environments, as well as local authorities in the region of Central and Eastern Europe. It should be stressed that such informal contacts and channels of cooperation provide great support for policy initiatives carried out within the Visegrad Group. Then the Tri-Morch initiative. This is a young but very promising form of economic and political cooperation. It was created only in 2015 and now brings together 12 countries of our region. After the initiative of Polish presidents Andrzej Duda and Croatia, Kolinda Grabar-Kitarović formed a Tri-Morga group, the initiative started the process of institutionalization. The support expressed by the US President at the second summit of the Warsaw Group in July 2017 for this initiative has made many eyes very attentive to the Tri-Morga. This can be proved by German declarations of willingness to develop cooperation with the group. Poland sees the Tri-More as a mechanism of cooperation for catching up on development delays resulting from the history of the region. This is not what needs to be pointed out, an initiative built in opposition to the European Union. In our view, the Tri-marine initiative has the opportunity to strengthen the unity of the Union, which is an additional source of development for the whole of the European Union, and at the same time to give impetus to the development of its neighbours. It is worth mentioning two large investments, which are, as it were, the flagship of the Tri-Moore, i.e. on the construction of the Via Carpatia route and the construction of the gas connection between LNG terminals in Świnoujście and the Croatian island of Krk. Initiated in 2014 so-called The Berlin process includes 13 countries, 7 of which are EU countries and the rest are Western Balkan countries interested in membership of the European Union. Like the Tri-Morch initiative, the Berlin Process primarily sets itself economic goals. It is about the recovery of Balkan economies through the expansion of transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure in the region. The countries involved in the project are also helping to implement Union law into the legal systems of the Balkan countries. The Eastern Partnership maintains the interest of the Union in countries located beyond its eastern borders, and the Berlin Process aims to draw the attention of the EU countries and institutions to the waiting in line for the membership of the Western Balkans. We support this process. Poland remains a constant supporter of the open door policy for the European Union. The enlargement process is the best guarantee of security, political stability, socio-economic development and good neighbourly relations in the Western Balkans, and the security and development of not only the region but also the whole of Europe depend on it. Political and economic cooperation has already been mentioned and it is worth mentioning the regional security initiative. I'm talking about the so-called. Bucharest's 9th, or so-called. format D9. This is an initiative on cooperation between nine Eastern countries of NATO. Like the Tri-Moor, it is not intended to break up the European Union, so Bucharest cooperation is not intended to replace NATO, which remains the primary pillar of our security policy. The aim of Bucharest cooperation is to complement the Alliance's activities and to enable common positions to be reached on matters resolved within the Alliance. It is about reaching NATO's allies with a common point of view on the threat to the eastern NATO flank and action to strengthen our eastern borders. Finally, it is worth mentioning the organisation of the Central European Initiative, the so-called "Central European Initiative." ISE. This is one of the oldest forms of regional cooperation in Central and Eastern Europe and, although it does not play a leading role, it remains a link between 18 countries from the Baltic to the Adriatic and the Black Sea. The Central European Initiative is increasingly focusing on project activities, moving away from political issues. Under the auspices of the ISE, the ISE Scientific and Technological Cooperation Network was established. They also work here so-called. ISE universities networks. Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion, a few words of summary. Regional cooperation in Central Europe is extremely important for our country. It is true that security and economic links lead us to the west of Europe. The European Union and NATO remain priorities, and that will not change. However, close and strong regional cooperation with the countries of our part of Europe is an invaluable added value for our country. It increases our safety and gives us the chance to get together with our partners so needed we in a globalised world competitive advantage. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u43	Thank you. I invite Mrs Bożena Kaminska, the Civic Platform Club - the Civic Coalition, which will give an address on behalf of this club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u44	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In Eastern politics, Poland has been successful for 8 years in the course of 2007, from the groundbreaking Eastern Partnership programme of the European Union, which has been a catalyst for revolution and pro-western changes in Ukraine, to successful projects of local border traffic with Ukraine and Russia, which have brought billions of profits to thousands of Polish companies in Podkarpacie, Lublin or Warmia-Mazurskie and Pomerania. Unfortunately, Law and Justice destroyed all of this without giving anything in return. Relations between Poland and Ukraine. Law and Justice reversed the logic of Polish foreign policy towards Ukraine. There has been a resignation from supporting Ukraine's Europeanisation process within the Eastern Partnership and strengthening Ukraine's sovereignty through relations with the European Union and the US. In return, it has made historical issues the most important problem of current Polish-Ukrainian relations. Otherwise, historical accounts have become more important than building a European Ukraine and supporting its sovereignty. The Civic Platform has pursued a policy with the awareness that the adoption by Ukraine of European standards will make it a predictable country and partner in solving international problems, as well as understanding that the European political context and the adoption of European values in Ukraine could be a prerequisite for reconciliation in historical truth. That is why we have created a separate channel of historical dialogue within the Polish-Ukrainian cooperation forum, so that the history dialogue goes its own way and is not disturbed by current policy. After 4 years of rule of law and justice, it can be seen that Polish foreign policy in Ukraine unfortunately went bankrupt. Poland has reduced its importance as a Ukrainian partner while reducing its interest in solving historical issues. We have more issues today, which unfortunately have ever been between us since 1991. None of these cases have been solved. Poland had an important position in the European Union and towards the US as a specialist in Ukraine and Eastern Partnership countries. The abandonment of active Eastern policy has led to a decrease in Polish interest in Brussels and Washington. Law and Justice have failed to comply with their request to enter the Normandy format, which concerns talks on Donbass and the settlement of the Donbass war, which, unfortunately, is still ongoing. I would also like to point out, Minister, that it is the people of Ukraine who make a huge contribution to the economic development of our country in terms of the labour market. Millions of people here complement our shortcomings in terms of hands to work, and support Polish companies and institutions. I would also appeal here to make it easier for Ukrainian citizens who work in our country for economic development to also be able to operate in the scientific space or in the space of conducting scientific projects and to recognise their degrees and diplomas. With regard to Polish foreign policy with Russia, Law and Justice have unfortunately abandoned active policy towards Russia and Russian society and have chosen to return to the health cordon in relation to this country. Resignation from the local border traffic, although severe to the inhabitants of the Kaliningrad region, cannot in any way be treated as a rhetoric for the hostile policy of the Russian Federation towards Poland. Rather, it is taking away the economic benefits of Poles living in Warmia-Mazury and Pomeranian voivodships in particular and losing the chance of a positive impact on Russian citizens living in the Kaliningrad region. Law and Justice have not fulfilled any of their objectives, for which failure to implement had previously been blamed by the Civic Platform and the PSL, in the case of the Smolensk disaster, with the return of the wreckage tupole at the head. I'm asking another question here. Minister, at what stage are the issues of the talks concerning Poland's return of the shipwreck tupole? How much did it cost for our taxpayer to run the Smolensk commission, the results of which we have today? None. Total lack of an idea to improve Polish-Russian relations, lack of involvement in Brussels policy towards Moscow and inspire it. The Civic Platform applied the principle: when it fails to work well with the official Russia, we open up opportunities for citizens to work together. Hence the extension of the small border traffic to the city of Królewiec gave a positive effect here. Law and Justice with loss, with a huge loss to Polish and Polish interests a small border movement closed. There's nothing in return after closing that little border traffic. We have often heard, and I refer to the words of the politicians of the Law and Justice Government, among others. in Suwałski Voivodeship, Deputy Minister of Administration of Mr Jarosław Zieliński, who stated that the closure of the local border traffic with the Kaliningrad region serves the security of the state so that criminals from Russia do not cross this border. Are you still saying that this should be the case? We're losing millions of dollars when it comes to economic exchange. When it comes to relations with Belarus... [[Bożena, finish it.]] ...we have an unprofessional retreat from the Civic Platform's policy of linking the opening to Minsk with a reduction in the repressiveness of the regime and improving relations with the West for the failed improvement of bilateral relations, with the disgraceful, unsubstantiated gestures towards it (a warm man) in President Lukashenka's policy. Again, the lack of results is accompanied by a compromising waiver of political principles. The Eastern Partnership - you have resigned from this area unfortunately, which has led to a reduction in the importance of this important programme, the flagship project of Poland in the European Union. Law and Justice have wasted it despite the still great demand for this instrument in the East. I would just like to point out that we also need the best relations with our Eastern neighbours because of a huge number of Poles living outside the country, in the eastern countries that border with us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u45	Thank you, Member. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice will speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u46	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his very comprehensive speech and a broad discussion of the tasks that are ahead of your hands this year, a man from the first generation of the NZS, Polish diplomacy. Your professionalism, so characteristic of the Government of the United Right, I hope, will set the standard of the current debate and all the next that we will be discussing foreign policy in this House of the Republic of Poland. I am pleased to have the pleasure on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to address the economic issues raised and development aid. Our relations with the countries of the European Union, especially the Federal Republic of Germany, are undeniably the foundation of the strength of the Polish economy. The volume of Polish exports that goes to the German market, but also to other countries of the European Communities, represents a significant majority of the revenue from our trade. The stability of this market is very important for us. With this greater concern, we must therefore observe the European financial sector, which has been in a difficult situation for some time, with a large number of assets at risk in its portfolio. The last position of the new CDU president, Ms Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer, in response to the French President's open letter on the future of the European Union, is, however, encouraging. The opposition to plans to expand the Brussels administration, against protectionism or irresponsible climate policy, which does not take into account the situation of individual countries, is close to the Polish vision of the Union as a Europe of homelands, strong national countries cooperating on equal terms within the open market. In Western Europe, however, there are also major challenges for our diplomacy. The most serious one is, it seems, the problem of Britain leaving the European Union. The UK market is the third most valuable Polish export market. Therefore, any turbulence that may affect economic relations with the United Kingdom must be envisaged and properly addressed in such well-connected bilateral relations. At the same time, these discussions should be conducted in a very skilful manner so that it does not violate the unity of the European Union and does not introduce additional fields of conflict. I think that this issue is one of the most serious challenges this year. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The United States is becoming a growing economic partner for us. Developing R &amp; D cooperation, complemented by close defence and energy cooperation, gives hope for a very promising future. The growth of economic links with America could potentially give greater security for economic stability and less dependence on the situation in Germany. Cooperation in the oil and gas market also opens the way for Poland to play the role of an important energy hub in our part of Europe, which should be a historic breakthrough and put our country in an extremely favourable regional position. The steady increase in exports (by 6.5% last year) ) is accompanied by an even faster increase in imports (9.3%) ). The positive balance of foreign trade last year was not maintained mainly due to the growing imports from the developing countries of the Far East. Therefore, the government strongly supports the economic activity of Polish companies in those markets, which, if maintained, should result in a reduction of the difference, i.e. the improvement of our trade balance. Not only offices organized by the Polish Investment and Trade Agency are active here, but also Polish diplomacy at the level of intergovernmental contacts. Our representatives, visiting other countries, allow representatives of Polish business to participate in the delegation. In the past 3 years, it has made use of this possibility approx. 180 companies that have been given the opportunity to establish business contacts in 30 different markets. The announcement of setting up working groups to address the issue of support for Polish trade and investment in the area of Asia and the Pacific deserves special appreciation. The reduction of the trade deficit with China, the Republic of Korea, Japan and the countries of South-East Asia should be one of the main priorities supported by the diplomatic services of the Republic of Poland. However, when assessing the situation of Poland on the global market, moderate optimism can be guided. With the current development perspectives, we have a chance to reach 21st position in the compilation of the world's largest economies. The further increase in exports of production and exports will only accelerate this trend. At this point it should also be noted that the promotion of the project of building the Central Communication Port in the world is also a field where the activity of our diplomacy will allow to gain some interest of very serious investors and to build the image of Poland as a modern country responsible for planning the long-term basis of its economic development. The greater dimension of using permanent membership of the UN Security Council and the announcement of extending participation in United Nations missions in the Middle East means Poland's return to active international policy. Strengthening our position in this way and through the organization of further major events on a global scale, such as COP24 in Katowice or the Middle East conference in Warsaw, is a very good starting point for creating our country's brand as a reliable partner with high international competence and contacts. This translates not only to strengthening the foreign policy instrumentarium, but also to creating an increasingly stable platform for economic contacts. I would like to stress that in this respect it is also extremely important that the political support given to us by the United States in the effective pursuit of Poland to ensure diversification of energy sources, with particular emphasis on natural gas. Together with the intensive efforts to quickly launch the Baltic Pipe project, this is a huge opportunity not only for us, but for the whole region of Central and Eastern Europe. Mr. Marshal! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A few more words about Poland's development aid. United Nations missions and international stabilisation activities are not the only Polish activity in favour of countries affected by problems. Almost twice as much development aid and more than five times as much humanitarian aid during the rule of law and justice show how important it is for us to be responsible for dealing with the world's problems, including in terms of material and financial terms. Our partners, both the beneficiaries of the aid and the partners, together with whom we provide it, emphasize the professionalism of Polish support and the fact that we show great sensitivity and responsibility in the way we address them. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u47	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Marek Grunkle, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u48	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The first reflection, which comes after hearing your exposé, is that, unfortunately, you are in favour of the direction of changes in foreign policy which began after the PiS came to power at the end of 2015, and which, according to the slogan of getting up from the knees, questioned the entire achievements of the predecessors, from Prime Minister Mazowiecki and Krzysztof Skubiszewski starting, and consequently pushed us into the second row. It is a policy, Minister, whether you like it or not, which in the European Union is associated with the launch of an article. 7 against Poland for violating the principle of three divisions of power and destroying the rule of law as the foundation of democracy. You mention the advantages of the Union as a result of four freedoms, but you have questioned the Union as a community of values, undermining the European model to date. Your main problem is that the Union is the guardian of the Treaties and of compliance with the law. It is a pity that you did not achieve more independence, but became a tool in the hands of decision-makers, because the foreign policy is also the responsibility of the President, the Prime Minister and unfortunately the President of Nowogrodzka. You also agreed to reduce the profile of foreign policy by bringing it into the implementation of internal policy, where everyday rhetoric is often soaked with right-wing populism, which you warned today, because it only sowes antagonism and certainly does not solve any problems. You emphasize good cooperation with the United States and Great Britain. Yes, there are areas, especially on security issues, where we can and should cooperate, but it is characteristic that Trump's policy seeks to weaken the Union and the United Kingdom rejects integration and cooperation by saying goodbye to the Community. As regards Germany, you state that Germany is our most important neighbour and trading partner with whom we have a lively dialogue. Well, let's take a look at how these declarations to reality are doing. Tell us what the results of the October Polish-German Forum are, during which the President, who spoke earlier about the Union as an imaginary community, is debating instead of the future about the lack of the possibility to buy ordinary bulbs, because there are only environmentally friendly ones, energy-efficient ones. And this is proof for him of a democratic deficit. Shame and embarrassment. Those were the comments. What they brought to the good neighbourly dialogue of the statements of Ambassador Przyłębski, I will remind you, TW about the pseudonym Wolfgang, who in the 100th anniversary of regaining independence in November called the last 100 years of Polish-German relations a catastrophe. And I am not talking about the text on the pages of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because this text was different, but about the words made publicly in Berlin. Besides, Ambassador Przyłębski flashed again last week. First, on MDR TV, he complained about his own country, claiming that the government of the PO had almost ruined the country in eight years. This constantly repeated despicable lie causes people who think rather embarrassment and disgust. A moment later, Mr. Ambassador frankly declared that public television in Poland is a daily channel of government communication with the public. Minister! If the diplomat is wrong about party interests with national interests, it should be cancelled. What are you waiting for? You like to heat the atmosphere yourself. In January, the President of the Donald Tusk European Council, you call Germany's representative and wonder if the procedure for extending his term of office is legal. You announced June after a few years' interruption of the round table. One would like to say, at last, better late than never. But you had to wait four years for the meeting. You've disappointed the Polish community in Germany. They were more counting on you than they were on the previous government when it came to taking care of their affairs. And I would like to ask what they are and what the outcome of this meeting will be. I don't want to be absolutely angry with you and provocatively ask what amount we'll get from the reparation. I would rather ask you what legal arguments you have to raise this issue. And the last question is the Weimar Triangle. From your speech, it can be concluded that the French are guilty of non-cooperation. But please say: Who has offended them before and wanted to teach them how to eat with a fork? But here, Minister, I agree with you. If you want to improve your relationship in the Union, if you care about Poland's strong position in Europe, go back to the idea of the Weimar Triangle as a driver of the Union, giving impetus to other countries, and use its potential, as you once said, I quote, in solving common problems and strengthening the unity and cohesion of the European Union. Because in fact, the Weimar Triangle is a place where you can convince the French to be right and avoid the Union of two speeds. Finally, do not forget that the Union is not only economic and trade relations, but, above all, a democracy based on respect for values, including in a special way the rule of law, and, of course, willingness to cooperate, because this is our Achilles' heel. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u49	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Przemysław Czarnecki, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u50	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! At first, it is impossible not to share a certain reflection - not about the very good and concrete speech by Minister Czaputowicz himself, but more about the very quality of the debate presented by the total opposition, which has served the same, which has not in fact been covering any arguments for years. For many years, as far as Polish foreign policy is concerned, there has been a consensus that goes beyond the boundaries of political divisions. Natural differences and disputes between parties did not go beyond the borders of our country. Unfortunately, with a good change, this good habit has gone to a lame man, the best example of which is today. Turning to the Minister's exposé itself, it is worth noting that, in addition to describing the specific challenges facing Polish foreign policy in 2019, Minister Czaputowicz also pointed out the wider global dimension of our international activity. Its most visible expression is the incessant membership of the UN Security Council, which, to be pointed out, is already in itself a great credit to the Government of Law and Justice and President Andrzej Duda. Our presence in this body activates and further strengthens the instrumentarium of our foreign policy. In addition, it is necessary to emphasize the fact that the activity in this field extends to a large extent the scope of Polish foreign policy to areas which have been treated by second- or even third-planning so far. The most tangible example of such activity is the declaration of Poland's re-engagement in peace missions carried out under the aegis of the UN, namely in the mission in Lebanon - UNIFIL. Even today, during this debate, the charge concerning the isolation of Poland in the international arena was passed. It is only at this point that the question of whose government is responsible for the completion of the Polish peacekeeping missions within the United Nations - which, moreover, has echoed widely in this organization. Today, the Polish government, the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, restores normality not only in internal matters, but also in the field of participation and responsibility for international governance and security. Moreover, thanks to our participation in peace and stability missions, our military acquires experience, often in a difficult and specific environment, and thus maintains a high level of combat capability. Another, even more tangible example of the absurdity of allegations of total opposition concerning alleged isolation is the undoubted success of the Katowice climate conference COP24, which was also the participation of the Ministry of the Environment. All numbers - 30,000. participants, representatives of almost 200 countries, 30 heads of state and government, or almost a hundred ministers from all parts of the world, testify to the greatness of this project. But the most important are not the numbers or the fantastic organisation of the summit, which, which is worth noting, contrary to the announcements of the leftist environments, took place without any incidents. The most important thing is the fact that this conference was also a complete success in political terms, both for Polish interests and for environmental issues of a global nature. The adoption of the programme of action of the Paris Agreement, together with three Polish initiatives, is a major step forward in order to improve the climate, not only in Poland. Finally, the third of the most eloquent examples on the global dimension of Polish foreign policy is the most recent of Polish initiatives, i.e. the Warsaw Middle East Summit from exactly one month ago. In this case too, we have a clear dissonance between the allegations of opposition politicians and reality, which is slowly becoming a parliamentary standard. The Warsaw summit was another in a row - as already mentioned in the climate summit, the May plenary session of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly or finally the 2016 NATO summit - a big event organized in Poland, which was held in an organizational manner in a perfect manner, in which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Minister Czaputowicz took a large part. This must be emphasized, because this type of initiatives and the impression of their participants are the most significant business card of Poland. Speaking of the Middle East Summit, it is impossible to escape its political role, which has traditionally been manipulated by the so-called. total opposition and some supporting media. The overarching objective of this summit was not to increase the importance of Poland on the international stage, but to take the next step towards stabilising the situation, and consequently to bring about peace in the Middle East as a key area for the global security system. And in terms of international policy, we can see the success of the fact that, after many years of break at one table, representatives of the Sunni states and Israel sat down. If someone had the expectation that the outcome of this summit would solve all the problems of this region, like the touch of a magic wand, it means that he is simply naive not to use stronger words. Peace in the Middle East is a long-term goal, and the difference between the Government of Law and Justice and our predecessors is that we are taking up challenges, and the PO-PSL coalition preferred, here I will remind you of the words of Prime Minister Kopacz, run away home and shut up with the children. Politics, including foreign policy, is a big responsibility and we take on this responsibility. Just as the only prescription of the Civic Platform for destabilisation in the Middle East was to bring thousands of illegal immigrants to Poland, so we take up the challenge of leading to the resolution of these conflicts at their source, as reflected in both the Middle East conference and the activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the Middle East emphasized in the exposé. We also see a big difference in the approach to humanitarian aid, both at systemic level and on its financing. The idea of providing humanitarian and development support directly to conflict areas fully corresponds to the activity of our policy in the Middle East. On the other hand, dry figures are best demonstrated - in 2015 24 million PLN was spent on humanitarian aid, last year it was already over 130 million, i.e. more than 500% More. Here it is worth emphasising the role that the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki attaches to the issue of humanitarian aid, which is the most significant symbol of which is the creation of the Department for Humanitarian Affairs. Humanitarian aid, headed by Minister Beata Kemp. In this way, it is not possible to temporarily quote all initiatives related to development and humanitarian aid, especially in the Middle East and North Africa, but the number of 173 development projects and 18 humanitarian projects carried out last year, in comparison with the powerlessness presented by the Civic Platform in this field, should close the mouth to all critics. To conclude, I would like to thank the Minister for both today's speech full of details and, above all, for the good last year in Polish foreign policy. From this point on, I would also like to declare the full support of the Law and Justice in any initiatives presented in your exposé. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u51	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u52	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Foreign policy and the level of diplomacy is the barometer of every government's policy. Given this indicator, unfortunately, the current conclusions are catastrophic. At the recent convention of the governing party, Jarosław Kaczyński said that Poland would matter in Europe as much as Germany and France, even if it had to act against everything. As you can see on the palm of your hand, the PiS government does not take into account the co-ordination option in order to deal with Germany and France, not against it. You'd rather fight than influence global geopoliticalism. You talk often about sovereignty, and you strive to be alone. There's a fundamental difference. The fatal diplomacy of Minister Waszczykowski is continued by Jack Czaputowicz and strives for isolationism. This experiment costs us too much. They know that, among other things. livestock farmers, seedlings and owners of transport companies. Foreign policy, in turn, focuses solely on partnership with the US. There is no doubt, however, that the narrative is dictated by an ally overseas, and the position of Poland has nothing to do with getting up from the knees. We were informed about the Middle East conference in Warsaw by Washington, and after that we made new enemies: Iran and Israel. This is art. In this context, we managed only to unite against Poland two warring nations and spoil the perfect reputation in the Middle East. It's history's failure. It's hard to keep up with who today is against our government. This conference is a complete disaster. We created a forum in Warsaw on which the Americans attacked the European Union with our total passiveness. Instead of looking for allies in Europe among the countries closest to him, Jack Chaputowicza is drawing further lines separating Poland from Western values. Building a European strategy on an alliance with Matteo Salvini or Viktor Orbán must surprise our western neighbours, while at the same time pushing Poland into an unwanted alliance with Vladimir Putin. Russia is waiting for us to be alone. Let's not ignore the Eastern threat. The day before yesterday we celebrated the 20th anniversary of joining NATO. Do I need to remind you what NATO forces are counterweights to? Meanwhile, our security is based mainly on an ally who sees our security differently from us overseas. The hard work of excellent diplomats we have managed, ladies and gentlemen, to create an economic alliance with Germany. Today, this alliance has lost balance because we heard the message from Nowogrodzka through the mouth of Minister Chaputowicz. Calling Donald Tusk a representative of German interests clearly reveals the return to rhetoric that Germany is synonymous with evil. A professional diplomat, a scientist, said that. It is worth asking whether Minister Chaputowicz is still an expert today or if he is just an experiment. The biggest sin of PiS foreign policy is to break its continuation. The world doesn't have to understand our internal disputes. The world now sees Poland that is troubled and unpredictable. This translates into negotiations within the framework of EU funds or the acquisition of foreign investors. As a result, the continuation and condition of international relations hits every aspect of life. Self-sufficiency is just a wishful thinking in this world without a chance of success. It is also a mistake to seek out continuous allies and ignore partners. Alliances are tied up, ladies and gentlemen, during the war, and partners are made for prosperity. Please give up your sentiments, phobias and prejudices. If Poland is to be respected and heard, other countries must want to respect and listen to it. There are now less than three years ago. There's not much to suggest there's going to be more of them. Polish foreign affairs are the worst after 1989, because from the back seat they are led by a man who models Poland in his own way, but for a penny he does not understand the world because he is afraid of this world. Minister! How seriously they take us and this government, our coalitioners and our partners are testifying to the departure of Ambassador Mosbacher 15 minutes before your exposé ends. That should give you something to think about, too. Prime Minister! Minister! Return from the road to nowhere or leave, freeing Poland from each other. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u53	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jan Dziedziczak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u54	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! Let me take this kind of summary of our foreign policy to raise the issue of our fellow countrymen abroad. As we know, it is a group of 20 million people of Polish origin, Poles who live abroad and who have been treated for many decades as a problem for the Polish state, in the case of the Polish People's Republic even as an enemy of the Polish state, and after 1989 as a patent, trouble just. We have decided to change this policy. We have decided to lead to a situation when Polonia will be our partner. Partner in activities concerning the maintenance of Polishness, promotion of Polishness, promotion of Poland, taking responsibility for the good name of Poland, creation of the Polish lobby. Wherever the Poles are, it works. I think that a great illustration of this way of thinking was both the first telephone conversation between President Donald Trump and President Andrzej Duda and the later first meeting of our presidents, when President Trump always began the conversation consistently with thanks for the votes of Poles in the United States. Unfortunately, so far, a group of our compatriots have not been exploited. As part of this policy, we have launched wide-ranging actions to involve Polonia in cooperation. We also care about maintaining Polishness, helping our fellow countrymen, therefore the unprecedented initiative of President Andrzej Duda, who proposed this to introduce school ID cards for every Polish child who decides to learn Polish at the Polish school or in a Polish school abroad. We are talking here about both state schools, the so-called. school consultative points and social schools that are organised abroad. Thanks to our government, which took this initiative, every Polish child who learns abroad has a school card, a card which gives the same privileges as Polish children learning in Polish schools: from entering national parks to discounts on entrances to museums, traveling by communication. This is a real idea that no one has ever proposed to our fellow countrymen abroad before. There's already 50,000 cards like that. We also develop intensive, consistent education in Polish schools abroad. Let us stress: when we started our governments, about 160,000. Polish children were taught in Polish institutions, now they learn more than 200. This is an undisputed growth, visible, undisputed by anyone. The second increase to be noted is the expenditure on Polonia. Let us stress that they increased from the amount of 75 million a year that the Senate had at its disposal, and for a certain period of time the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to more than 100 million. It is also a record growth, noticeable, completely changing the perspective of our possibilities of helping Poles, the authentic inclusion of Polonia in defence of the national name of Poland. It is this policy of partnership and cooperation, rather than treating as a problem and a patent, that also brings our country and Pole's position abroad concrete, measurable benefits. Ladies and gentlemen! A Pole's card. It's worth mentioning. Our government has revised this charter, giving a number of new opportunities, privileges to our compatriots living in the former Soviet Union. We want them to cultivate Polishness so that this cultivation of Polishness is also appreciated. It's happening. The Polish Charter, which is an initiative of the government of Jarosław Kaczyński, is already 10 years old this year. At 252,000. The Polish Kart last year managed to extend or re-set 35 thousand. these cards, and so also a significant number. Poles who have Polish Charters can settle permanently in Poland. It's also our big catch, the amendment that took place in the days of this government. Ladies and gentlemen, repatriation. Thanks to the amendments from 2016 and 2017 we have, attention, the largest arrival of our compatriots for 17 years. Thanks to our government. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, Poles in Lithuania. Also a great success of this government. In the framework of bilateral talks, the negotiations led Poles in Lithuania to have three channels at their disposal on digital terrestrial television and to conclude the Vilnius TVP project. Also, let us stress, such a great initiative that cultivates Polish tradition, history, language, culture has never been in place since 1989. This is concrete, and this is the work of this government. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Foundation for Polish Aid in the East - Foundation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, founded by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Jan Olszewski. The only such initiative, which at the moment carries out our interests and is the property of the State Treasury, carries out record activities. The scale of this foundation's impact on helping our fellow countrymen has been the largest since 1992. It doubled its action compared to the period of the PO-PSL regime. Ladies and gentlemen, we could talk about saving Polish children here for hours. I'll just mention it. The case of Consul Sławomir Kowalski and his brave attitude is the best indication that helping Polish families, Polish children abroad has become a real priority of this government. The fact that we have heard less about such matters before is the best example of the fact that perhaps these cases were simply less frequently discussed. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, due to limited time, to say a few words about public diplomacy, about the fight for the good name of Poland abroad. Because public diplomacy is just a struggle to obtain as many citizens as possible for the interests of Poland. This makes public diplomacy different from classical diplomacy, that we are not dealing with a relationship: a diplomat with a diplomat, only we are dealing with a relationship: a Polish state and a wide range of citizens in a given country where public diplomacy takes place. Ladies and gentlemen, we have stopped implementing the project of self-realization of artists. Unfortunately, in previous governments it was so that the artists, regardless of what their work presented, in what light they put Poles in, in the framework of public diplomacy they had a field - for our money, the Polish taxpayer - for self-realization. And here the artist wanted to self-realize himself and show himself, for example. a film where Poles were portrayed as Troglodytes, who behaved in an extremely primitive, shameful, the worst, where even some single unpleasant incidents in our history were presented as something universal. Hence, even mistakes in showing Polish brave heroes who saved Jews. Instead, it was shown, and exaggerated, as something common, those incidents where someone behaved badly, some cashmere, etc. We know it was the margin of our story, but there were cases. Here it was explained for the money of the Polish taxpayer. Those who talked about the negative side of our history, blazing these stories, showing them as something common, as the universal behaviour of Poles during World War II, were invited and promoted for the money of the Polish taxpayer. It's over. Now we show history in a fair and objective way. Many Polish heroes have been excavated. There's the matter of Ambassador Ladoś, Romer. It's all a great work of our government, and it's forgotten. No one, including your Members in this House, has ever heard of Ambassador Ładosi and his heroic rescue of the Jews. Thanks to our government, the whole world has learned this story and this is concrete. The best example of how effective this policy was, even the last event, is the last statements of the Israeli Foreign Minister. I think that none of us will question that these were absolutely unacceptable statements, but the scale of support for Poland of so many Jewish organizations which did not agree to this statement, which said that Poles behaved in a completely different way than this minister said during the war... [[It's not your fault.]] ... Of course, it is a success of our work: making friends of Poland, showing the truth, discussing. That's how you do diplomacy and we do it. We did. There was a big operation involving the Ulm family. Thanks to our government, the world has learned the history of the Ulm family, because your governments have simply not spoken of them. [[That's not true.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that in Polish politics, and in public diplomacy policy, this government, Prime Minister Szydło, Prime Minister Morawiecki, was a government of real good change. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u55	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u56	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Whether you look at the effects of this government's foreign policy, you can see one thing: the loneliness of Poland in Europe and the vassal attitude towards the United States. On the one hand, the government tightens its muscles and screams, "We are great and get off our knees!" On the other hand, it withdraws cancer from ill-thought-out decisions with consequences not only of images, but also of economic harm to Poland. There are too many examples. I'm just going to name the most spectacular ones. At the beginning of last year, the government caused a crisis in relations with Israel, pushing the IPN Act through parliament so that after a few months of diplomatic struggle, which is mainly damaging Poland, with the support of the largest ally, according to the government, the United States, they would be forced to withdraw from this law. I ask you, Minister, how successful the government has been in this field. Another great ally of Poland, of course according to the government of PiS, the UK, is withdrawing from the European Union, which will have economic consequences for the whole of the European Union, but will also have less money in the European budget for Poland. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Even if I did not know how to look for good results of foreign policy of the Polish government, there is a conflict with the European Commission, which accuses Poland of breaking the rule of law, conflict with Germany and France. Today, Minister, you said about France that it is an important point of reference for us in European, political-military and economic matters and that it is a swordsman of freedom of peoples. Then why did you, Minister Chaputovich, call France a sick man of Europe, what caused the French ambassador's protest? Why would you do that? So I'm asking, are these the amazing effects of the PiS government's foreign policy? On the one hand, the PiS government verbally fights the EU institutions, and on the other hand it suffers spectacular failures and cancer withdraws from the announced changes. As an example, I will give the pseudoreform of the Supreme Court, from which the government withdrew, and the president had to accept it, although reluctantly, and the Supreme Court judges and the first president returned to work. Examples of your inefficient and harmful foreign policy could be multiplied. This is both sad and appalling. Till the words spoken by Kmicicz to Wołodyjowski, which I dedicate to the rulers themselves, end the matter, spare the shame. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u57	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u58	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! With some satisfaction, I would like to point out that the Minister in his exposé raised that the issue of reparations for World War II is an important topic for discussion between the Polish and German Republic. Thank you, Minister, because this is an important declaration in the context of the fact that for many decades this topic has been ignored at all in the Polish public debate and in the activities of parliament and government. The history of the German occupation of Poland and the scale of the crimes committed on Polish lands, in the Polish nation is little known in Europe and in the world. The memory of World War II is also blurred, and the last witnesses are gone. That's why many people today Poland is known only as a place of the Holocaust of the Jewish people, not as crimes committed on the Polish people. There are also attempts to rewrite history, the history of World War II. Unfortunately, in the international public consciousness there is no reliable information about what was happening in Polish lands during World War II. The international community should know what the real consequences of World War II were for Poland, what losses Poland suffered, as well as what reparations and compensations Polish citizens have received since its completion, and that this matter is neither legally nor politically closed, as the German politicians claim. During World War II, Poland suffered the greatest losses of all European countries, both personal and material, in relation to the total population and national assets. These losses resulted not only from war activities, but mainly from German occupation policy, in particular from the deliberate and organized extermination of the population on occupied Polish lands, intensive exploitation of Polish society, including forced labour, intentional destruction of property, and in particular the destruction of virtually 90% of the capital of the state, Warsaw, as well as thousands of Polish cities, towns and villages. The negative effects of World War II are still felt in terms of demography, economy, infrastructure, science, education and culture. Every Pole and every Polish woman still suffer from the negative effects of World War II. Each year of war and occupation carried the Polish state to a lower level of development in all aspects of public, economic or social life. For generations, Poles lost their ability to accumulate capital, savings, and works of art and cultural goods, valuable possessions and achievements of their ancestors were stolen and exported by the Germans. The modern Polish state today would be in a completely different place on the map of the world and Europe, if there were no World War II and its tragic consequences. Several decimated generations of Poles were sentenced to an enormous effort to rebuild war damage and to lift the country from ruins. To this day, the Republic of Poland has received neither the full amount of war reparations granted to the great powers in Potsdam by decision, nor even more compensation appropriate to the damage suffered by war and occupation. Also to this day, Germany has failed to account for the activities of robberies and robberies carried out systematically in relation to the works of culture and art of the Polish state and its citizens. Poland and Poles did not recover the stolen hundreds of thousands of cultural goods, works of art seized during World War II. Unfortunately, after the end of World War II, the successors of the Third Reich did not feel and still do not feel the obligation to compensate Poland for the crimes and harm done to our country and Polish citizens. Moreover, Germany questions political and legal responsibility towards Poland for the effects of World War II, and their actions are unfortunately limited only to symbolic gestures and words about moral responsibility. Despite this possibility, Germany has avoided and avoided the regulation of the case in the form of bilateral agreements. Protecting their interests and economic resources has always been more important to them. Since the end of World War II, German policy on this issue can be characterized as a game of silence, statute of limitations and oblivion. Unfortunately, also the international community today has little knowledge of the scale of destruction and looting suffered by Poland during World War II. Minister! To this day, Germany has not concluded a peace treaty with Poland that would end World War II or any other agreement that would fully regulate the settlements resulting from World War II. Moreover, there is no legal path for individuals who wish to claim and there is no restitution. While in connection with the international situation after the war neither Poland nor Germany had the possibility to decide on the shape or level of the war reparations, after the fall of communism and then after the unification of the GDR and the Federal Republic of Germany, this issue should be regulated in bilateral relations between the two countries. It should be stressed that the rules laid down at the Potsdam conference for granting war reparations were not adequate to the least extent to the losses and damages suffered by Poland during the Second World War, and therefore the Parliamentary Group for Parliamentary Affairs was established in the 8th term of office. Estimates of Poland's compensation for damage caused during World War II by Germany. Members and senators of the Republic of Poland, who have undertaken to work in a parliamentary team, see the need and need for contemporary description and estimation of human and material losses incurred by Rzeczpospolita Polska during World War II. We are fully aware that the enormous scale of war losses cannot reflect any report, no quantitative account, because we cannot take full account of the misery, human death and associated multigenerational dramas that our ancestors, our parents and grandparents have experienced. However, for contemporary and future generations, it is necessary for historical truth to assess as comprehensive and systemic as possible today the magnitude of the war losses suffered by the Republic of Poland. It should be stressed that in the so-called signed one. two-plus treaty Four in Moscow, which was to regulate German unification, were not concerned with the issue of reparations and war damages. To sum up, High Izbo, I just want to stress that the total humanitarian and financial aid received by Poles did not exceed PLN 6 billion, which represents a total of less than EUR 2 billion. It's just 2.74%. the total amount paid by Germany to all citizens of other countries from Western Europe or Israel. High Izbo! Minister! To sum up, as part of a friendly, good cooperation with the Federal Republic of Germany, action should be taken in the international forum in order to finally regulate the issue, the issue of war reparations, individual compensations and restitution of cultural goods and works of art in Polish-German relations. And this Minister and our country, I wish all Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u59	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u60	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Poles want an efficient, democratic and strong European Union. That's what PiS and you have been talking about lately, Minister. Unfortunately, what you are proposing and what you were talking about in today's exposé are ways to make the Union weak, undemocratic and disabled. You have not said anything about the European Parliament, the only body of the Union, which is the direct democratic representation of European citizens. In February 2017, the PiS MEPs spoke against a resolution in the European Parliament to improve the European Union's action under the current Lisbon Treaty. They voted against. One of the proposals contained there was a gradual extension of the use of qualified majority votes. Qualified majority voting applies to a very large number of common market issues, which work quite well, but for example. there is no such vote in defence, foreign policy and security policy. Therefore, it would be useful to extend this partially. [[Voice from the room: And there will be no.]] Minister! Such a proposal is a proposal to extend qualified majority voting to impose sanctions on other countries. Every six months, the European Union must once again impose unanimous sanctions on Russia. It is enough that one country will object, and there will be no sanctions against Russia. Russia will feel completely unpunished. It was proposed that, under the Treaty of Lisbon, this vote should be transferred to qualified votes by a majority. We opposed it. This is completely contrary to the interests of Poland, but certainly in line with the interests of Russia. If one country breaks down, there will be no more sanctions on Russia. A democracy that would be based on liberum veto would be really weak and ineffective. We in Poland should know very well that such democracy does not bode well for the Union of the great future. You refer to the founding fathers, but the founding fathers did not want the European community to be confined to the community of nations, the community of states. Such a thing existed in the interwar period in the form of the League of Nations. It has failed to protect peace in Europe. That is why fathers wanted to introduce - and introduce - and develop - the Community method, adopt federal solutions. Schuman's declaration literally states that coal and steel production under the joint management of a high authority will be, I quote: the first concrete basis of the European federation. What you're sponsoring today, going back to some League of Nations, is contrary to the vision of the founding fathers. You are unable to have a rational discussion about the euro. Stereotypes that are not based on any research or scientific knowledge shall be disseminated. I also wanted to say a few words about human rights. Poland for many countries, especially in the afterlife, was an inspiration and a model in the fight for human rights. I will even call Polish Solidarity, KOR, the democratic opposition. Today, Minister, the situation has turned around. Dumb Open Dialogue organization, which has done most in countries such as Kazakhstan and Moldova, but also in Russia. Organization activists provided lawyers to political prisoners and visited them. They're carrying humanitarian aid for families. They alerted the public in Europe of what was happening. They kept lists of arrested, imprisoned and tortured. They have initiated changes in Interpol so that authoritarian regimes cannot use it to prosecute those who have fled and are hiding in other countries. You have declared war on Open Dialogue. Your department wants to get the commissioner in there. Luckily, the courts are defending it. Ms Ludmila Kozłowska was expelled not only from Poland but also from the whole Schengen area. Other countries didn't recognize it. She has been granted permanent residence in Belgium and is invited to various countries for major international conferences on the defence of human rights. I appeal to you, Minister, and to Minister Kaminski, to stop harassing Open Dialogue and finally end this matter. She compromises Poland as a country in which human rights are defended and becomes a party to it. I know these dissidents, people fighting for human rights, people who are in prison, I know their families. I went there and talked to them. Open Dialogue is a symbol of support, assistance and solidarity for them. You declared war on him. These dissidents, human rights defenders don't get it, they're in shock. How can Poland, a country with such traditions, do such things to an organization that helps them, defends them, illuminates them and makes them suffer and their struggle for human rights? It is a stain on the image of Poland, which is spreading more and more. We need to get this over with as soon as possible. [[They declared war on Poland.]] I will also mention your asylum policy. Unfortunately, even those who seek international protection and flee from political persecution, it is difficult to apply for asylum in Poland. Some people do, some people don't. Even if they manage to make such a request, the rate of granting asylum in Poland is among the lowest in the European Union. This does not prove Poland well either. The image of Poland as a country that is in favour of human rights, which is to be a basis, an inspiration, a model for human rights defenders in many countries is destroyed and wasted by your policies. I urge you, Minister, to radically change this.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u61	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Witold Waszczykowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u62	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I thank you very much for both providing a comprehensive and factual report for recent years and for referring in a factual way to the plans of Polish diplomacy. At the same time, I would like to apologise to you for the speeches made by a number of Members of the opposition. You've met with hysteria, political journalism, attacks. [[Voice from the hall: Apologize to yourself.]] There's always a glass of water here. Some of the Members of the opposition, not before or after the speech, but sometimes they should try it instead. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the room: Enjoy.]] They yelled at you about clientalism, vassalism, shame, humiliation, etc. They don't like working with the United States, with Great Britain, with Israel, with Visegrad, because Orbán is crazy there. Middle East conference - it doesn't matter. Don't do anything. Listen to the Germans, sail in the main stream. We've had this diplomacy in the Polish People's Republic. The ambassador's instructions were this: if you have a problem, call the Soviets. In the 1990s and the last we had: you don't know how to vote, look at the German delegation. No, this diplomacy isn't coming back. I would like to ask if in the last three years, Minister, you have been marginalized - or your predecessor - in some sort of situation. Has the Polish delegation been marginalized? Couldn't you attend any international event? Were you isolated in the European Union? Was the door locked in front of you, in front of the Polish delegation, in front of your predecessors? Was the Polish delegation excluded from any decision-making process? The rule of law is raised, so perhaps the Minister, the Professor, would show where, in which document of the European Union or in which treaty is the definition of the rule of law, which is invoked by opposition and half of Europe. Where is the European document in which the Treaty combines the Structural Funds with the rule of law? You just introduced it here. You said that compensation was compensation, and so on. Unfortunately, the ideas that our opponents present are, as I said, the return of some demons of the past. I'm gonna say a few sentences about this. Well, you've presented a difficult environment in which we live. Indeed, in modern times the curse of our policy was the location of Poland between Germany and Russia. The phantom of being such a sandwich comes back. Over the last three centuries, Polish politicians have argued about a way of ensuring security, and often and independence. The independence camp set its own national efforts to maintain sovereignty. In other words, let's call it this, he assumed that Poland could only survive if he submitted to one of the strong neighbours from the East or the West. When we entered NATO and the European Union, we hoped that the dilemma of sandwiching, as I call it, had been resolved. We have become part of Western civilization, safe under the umbrella of NATO and the European Union. In recent years, however, these revenants of the past have returned. We are confident about the growing threat from revisionist Russia and the lack of certainty about the adequate response of the West, mostly of the European West. This year we must assume that Russia can continue to try to destabilize Ukraine. It will also interfere with the presidential elections in Ukraine. Target is clear. The idea is to lead to extreme dissatisfaction of the population and the return of the Russian or pro-Russian authorities, which will reverse democratic and market reforms and submit Ukraine to Moscow. Due to the above danger and sensitive bilateral relations, Polish diplomacy will have a difficult task. How can we reconcile support for sovereign Ukraine with the need to solve historical and current problems? In Kiev they know, as you know, these Polish dilemmas and they will play it in their favor. We must also assume that, together with the expansion of the North Gas pipeline, Nord Stream 2, Russia can strengthen its military presence in the Baltic Sea. The militarisation of this reservoir is a threat to the whole region of northern and central Europe. Poland must play the role of the signaler here and raise awareness of this threat. So let us not give in to the myths that through the sloppy behaviour towards Moscow - this concept: our cottage from the country - we will gain favor, economic benefits and recognition in the Western capitals. This policy, let's call it a little appeasement policy, without success practiced the previous government, PO-PSL. Russian revisionism will be accompanied by uncertainty about the development of the European Union and its largest Member States. The term of office of the European Parliament and of the European Commission will end in the middle of the year. These institutions cannot boast success. The bug list is long. The Union is not expanding, but shrinking and weakening, losing Britain. European integration is not getting worse as if the federalists wanted it. The Union shares a few speeds in the Union, does not liberalize its economy. Instead of conventionality, protectionist practices are increasing. Nor is the Union a leader in economic growth and innovation. The European institutions have also failed to resolve the crises and international conflicts surrounding Europe. There is no progress in resolving the Russian-Ukrainian, Syrian or Libyan conflict. Instead of developing innovation, expanding the stability zone and resolving international conflicts, the current European bureaucracy is giving us ideological games. The world, and certainly Europe, is to rule the so-called. liberal democracy, mostly left-liberal democracy. It's a system that rules out tradition and natural order. By means of mass propaganda, sociotechnics, but also financial pressures - various rating tricks, climate policies, energy mixes, quota restrictions, etc. - the current European institutions are trying to create a new demos. The leading countries of the Union have broken away from the idea of solidarity between European policies. On their own, they seek solutions in both internal and foreign policies. Selfishness and double standards dominate. The real problems melt down in false rhetoric, the Orwellian style turns terms into rations. Protectionist, anti-treaty and anti-solidarity actions usurp the right to be the essence of Europeanity. The attempts to maintain unity, growth or basic European principles and freedoms are stigmatized as populism. How many times have we been accused - only the opposition cannot decide whether we are going to Belarus or to Putin or to Polexit. So it's the sandwich ghost that's coming back. Russian imperialism is growing from the East, from the West - ideological pressure and command of development in one right direction. I share your assessment of the situation. As far as corrective measures are concerned, difficult environments, challenges, threats for happiness meet with the correct response of Polish diplomacy. For 3 years we have finally strengthened the security of Poland and the region. In 2017, NATO and the United States troops appeared. For 3 years we have also strengthened regional political, infrastructure and energy cooperation. This year we will continue to seek, I believe, the strengthening of military security. There are good chances of deploying additional equipment and the U.S. military. We should also seek to ensure that American actions complement NATO's projects. The growing military presence should be covered by defensive planning for our eastern flank and subject to the appropriate regional commander of NATO. Security and development will also foster regional cooperation. The flagship initiative will remain the Tri-More. These initiatives should be combined with the Eastern Partnership and the European ambitions of the Western Balkan countries. It is worth convincing the Americans and the British who will seek new forms of cooperation with Europe after Brexit to participate in the ambitious projects of this initiative. Brexit is of course a blow to the European Union, but also an opportunity for us to establish a multisectoral cooperation with the second European economy and the world power. The military and gas agreement with the United States should be a catalyst for further development of economic cooperation with this power. The greater challenge - you mentioned this - will be to repair the European Union. For the first six months we will still have to defend ourselves against ideological attacks aimed at weakening the government and the Polish position. However, after the elections, there will be a chance to change the direction of work, both in the Euro Parliament and in the European Commission. As you have rightly pointed out, the institutions should return to the role of guardians of the Treaty freedoms and move away from usurping the right to discipline and supervision of the Member States. This year we will still have a chance to strengthen our position in the world. New facilities are needed - that is my opinion - so I suggest, Minister, to consider the issue of new consulates in the United States, Canada, the Czech Republic and new diplomatic and commercial offices in Asia and Africa. Of course, the new trading offices will complement this growing network. It will remain in our hands an important instrument, which is the seat of the UN Security Council. Rightly, I believe you have initiated an involvement in solving one of the crises in the neighbourhood of Europe. I consider it right to decide on the Middle East conference. We have considerable resources for humanitarian and development aid, experienced in peaceful military missions and an extensive diplomatic network. All that is needed is will, determination, conscious choice of direction and a group of allies with whom we could pursue common interests, with mutual benefits. The current year is therefore a period of many challenges and threats. At the same time, it is a year of many opportunities and opportunities. We have many instruments - you calculated them here - to take advantage of these opportunities. We are in a unique situation today, for we have not been lacking in the diplomacy of human and material resources for years. I think for the first time in years our success depends mainly on our ideas, will and determination. I wish the Minister success in their implementation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u63	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Norbert Obricki, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u64	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The strength and place of Polish diplomacy under the rule of Law and Justice, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs under your rule, can also be measured in numbers, in euro, on the example of fitting to the next EU budget. On the table lies the European Commission's proposal, almost 20 billion less for Poland than what our government, the Civic Platform, negotiated in the previous EU budget. This is down by 23% compared to earlier years. Poland has not submitted any counter-proposals, no new allocation algorithm. In addition, we have an announcement of the dependence of spending our common EU money on the state of the rule of law in a given country. This is a humiliating announcement of a clause that begins Poland for your governments, Law and Justice, to touch directly. Even those less than EUR 20 billion will therefore be very difficult to benefit from if you remain in power. The Minister also spoke about our alliances. We have them formally, but under the rule of PiS Poland not only lost its place at the main European table, it fell out of mainstream countries shaping the strategy for the future, but also lost its regional role. [[An example?]] No rituals, Polish-Hungarian summits, or even the Visegrad rituals, especially when they are held without Poland, in Jerusalem, at the invitation of Prime Minister Netanjah who plays his own election party. Poland is not taken seriously in Brussels, Berlin or Paris, it does not work The Weimar Triangle. We are also not the main political partner for Czechs, Slovaks, Latvians or Romanians. You spoke about the Bucharest format - yes, it is good, but for Romanians, and it serves them, because they have been offered an 8% increase in the budget, while we, as I said, have reduced by 23%, which is partly at the expense of Poland. International agreements. The Minister boasts that many contracts have been signed for your governments, that you are closing many years of disputes. But Minister, you know very well that diplomacy is not about quantity, but about the quality of these agreements, about showing our effectiveness and strength of our diplomacy, about real European compromises. Rather, you should be ashamed, not boasting that you have divided the exclusive economic zone in the Baltic from 20 to 80 to the detriment of Poland. It's not a success, it's a failure. And the matter of our facilities in the world. You promised Renaissance facilities and investments. I would like to remind you that after 4 years of government of the Civic Platform in 2011 the biggest investments in the history of Polish diplomacy were put into use: the Brussels office and the largest consulate - Consulate General of Poland in Lviv. What have you built since then for four years of your reign? Where's the embassy in Berlin? Far advanced work or even a successful tender you blocked in 2015. What about the embassy in Minsk? In return, you are proud to create microscopic facilities outside Europe that are incomparable with the network of new general consulates, Polish institutes that were created before your governments. It's time for real diplomacy, Minister. But the good news is that your mission is ending, as is the mission of this government. Democratic Europo, we're going back. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: On your knees, on your knees.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u65	Thank you very much, sir. [[But where are you going?]] [[To Europe.]] [[Voice from the room: Aaaa...]] [[And you weren't there? I mean, Schetyna still goes there.]] [[You guys are getting out of it.]] Please, Mr Włodzimierz Bernacki, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u66	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you for the exposé. And I'd like to sort of justify my opposition colleagues... [[Voice from the room: But we don't need it.]] ...justify all the words that have been spoken here. If you don't want to enter into a substance, you should learn more about the theory of international relations. And I would advise my opposition colleagues to take on one specific perspective: if they are criticizing, it should be uniform and done from a specific methodological perspective. If you want to criticize the policy pursued by the Government of Law and Justice, please also answer the fundamental question of what is characteristic of the times in which we live, namely the postmodern times, whether we are talking about the functioning of the state and the state as an opposition, accepting the existence of such an entity of international relations as the state or not, whether what is functioning within the European Union is a domain of international relations, or whether it is already a domain of relations between institutions forming one political entity. If you are criticising foreign policy, please point out the essential points that are important for the functioning of the state in the international space and consider whether these are geopolitical factors, whether they are political, economic, energy or perhaps military factors. Or should we even consider why the policy pursued by the Government of the United Right is a policy aimed primarily at guaranteeing the subjectivity and security of Poland in this part of the world? What are the dangers? Are these threats from space, or are they from the space in which we are located, the geographical space formed in the long-term historical process? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I suggest you get to the basics. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u67	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Michał Stasiński, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u68	Minister! For starters, one correction. At the meeting in front of the column room, you were kind enough to say that the term Fort Trump is a journalistic term. It took me a long time, but I checked that the name Fort Trump was proposed by President Andrzej Duda. I'm sending you back to the source: it was March 2019. If there can be one perfect example of your policy, which is anti-European and at the same time anti-Polish, then the best example is energy policy. Poland, Europe, today is facing an extremely important challenge for the whole world to tackle drastic climate change. In front of us, we see how these changes take place and affect our lives. Increasing temperatures, rising water problems, on the one hand droughts, on the other hand floods, storms and hurricanes - these drastic phenomena will increase from year to year. All of this poses a real threat to the well-being and life of our citizens, and the cost of the effects of these phenomena goes into billions and will continue to grow. Before Poland and Polish energy on a national level, but also on an international level, there is therefore a huge challenge, but above all the opportunity for calm, planned and, what should be emphasized, cost-effective - I will repeat this once again: profitable - for Poland to move away from coal energy and replace it with a system of energy based on renewable, low-carbon and distributed sources. You are not taking up this challenge, you are not taking advantage of the opportunities offered by the Union in this regard. You are fighting Nord Stream 2 to prevent Poland and Europe from becoming dependent on Russian gas. Very rightly, you have our full support on this issue. But how can one explain the fact that on the one hand you are fighting Russian gas, and on the other you have loved even the incredible Russian coal, which you import a record quantity in history, almost 20 million tons. I understand that we care about the budget, but I would suggest that we take care of Poland's budget rather than the budget of the Russian Federation. You are showing a dramatic misunderstanding of the processes that are taking place in European and global energy and international energy policy. You have no basic knowledge of the development and operation of the latest technologies and their impact on energy policy. As a result of your actions against Europe, we are becoming an energy museum, a place where time has not only stopped, but, which is an event, is almost undisturbed. You remind me of the luddists - if any of you do not know, I will gladly explain - who believed in the 19th century that by destroying steam and mechanical looming machines, they will stop the development of industry and civilization. Today, civilization is leaving fossil fuels, and you are going in exactly the opposite direction. In this room, three years ago, you destroyed wind energy. The face of this shameful action was not only Prime Minister Szydło, who was then sitting in a place for her, not only Minister Tchórzewski, but above all Minister of Education Anna Zalewska, today the leading candidate of the PiS to the European Parliament. Really, I have to say that I lack the words to comment on the fact that the person responsible for education, the enlightenment, our children, is the person who says that windmills hurt, and burning coal in the furnace is okay. The Minister has a piece of work, by the way. [[Applause]] Not only did she destroy Polish education, but also cut into the trunk renewable energy sources and, I would say from this place, quoting: the place for Europarlia just She deserved it. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Put the windmill next to the house, you'll see.]] Your policy leads to Poland's failure to fulfil its commitments on the share of renewable energy in the energy mix of 15% in 2020. The consequences will be dramatic. The Supreme Audit Chamber estimates that the cost for Poland will be PLN 8 billion. Where are you gonna get that money? Who are you gonna take them from? You're gonna have to spend it on purchasing green energy in neighboring countries that... [[Don't threaten me with your finger. We're not scared.]] ...they're pursuing the right policy. And this 8 billion should be spent here on creating new renewable energy sources and developing these technologies. Every day we pay for your inability. [[Applause]] We pay for it, our children pay for it, our grandchildren and generations to pay for it. We pay for this health, breathing the most poisoned air in Europe, and money, with increasingly expensive energy. And it won't be replaced by your accounting tricks with money being transferred from the budget to the so-called. Lowering energy prices... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...because this money in the budget is also the money of all Poles... [[Your betrayal.]] ...that you take away from them. The December Energy Price Act has shown with all sharpness the importance of... [[Genius.]] ...the structural failure of Polish energy to comply with the rules of the Union. Minister! You do not understand that the importance of climate policy in the European Union is growing, covering further areas and increasing the existing objectives in this area. We are witnessing a consensus in Europe on the need to defend the climate achieved between the right, the left and the centre of most EU countries. Minister, you're not there. Poland isn't there. Your policy is evil, harmful, anachronistic and backward. Your memory of COP24 in Katowice should be treated as a kind of joke, because what the delegates actually brought out from there is not only an unusual amount of dust suspended in the air, because such air as we welcomed them did not meet anywhere in Europe, but also a curiosative presentation of Poland as a carbon hole that will not go away from it, and many other issues that I do not want to raise here. Continuing with the current shape of our energy policy can lead to polexit in the long term, with all the dramatic consequences for our economy and our state. And unfortunately, it also falls on your shoulders. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u69	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Michael Szczerba, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u70	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Polish-Israeli relations are relations from crisis to crisis. The amendment of the IPN Act was not a draft of irresponsible Members. It was a project, Minister, the Council of Ministers. Your resort, your predecessor, warned at the time, but warned unsuccessfully. [[Voice from the room: They know each other well.]] The IPN Act has been passed. It caused the devastation of Polish-Israeli relations, but also important Polish-Jewish relations. These were relationships built over three decades by reliable individuals, by authorities like the Minister... [[On your knees, on your knees.]] ... Władysław Bartoszewski. You've ruined it all. The wrong memory codes have been promoted by this bill by your inability. The untruthful term "Polish death camps" has gained significance and has been spread around the world. What caused this bill? This bill, ladies and gentlemen, has also led to an increase in anti-Semitism in our country. [[That's not true.]] A study of the Centre for Prejudice Research has been carried out on this subject. It's about the rise in anti-Semitism. [[Examples?]] The Jewish environments, the association of Jewish communes of the Polish Republic issued statements that this was the first time after 50 years since March 1968 when they felt threatened when they were worried about their own safety. Ladies and gentlemen... [[That's not true.]] ...a further success, another difficult test is the conference that the Minister bragged about... [[Voice from the room: How excited.]] ...which caused everyone to be offended. First it was to be Prime Minister Morawiecki in Jerusalem, then Minister Czaputowicz, after all no one went, and the Visegrad Group was to support us in our position, as Mrs Gosievska said, as a model. What was the effect? Everyone was there except the Polish Prime Minister, except the Polish representative. [[There was no sitting.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It's not over. Polish-Israeli relations - from crisis to crisis. The Minister spoke about historical politics. Minister! The IPN isn't helping you. Call President Shark. This is your nominate in this institution. What did the president of the IPN Mr. Sharek say? The IPN is ready for exhumation in Jedwabne. What is it, Minister? That's adding gasoline to the fire. This is the path to the crash, course for the frontal collision. In 2003 the IPN investigation was completed by a branch in Bialystok. Minister of Justice - Attorney General Lech Kaczyński has decided that there will be no exhumation in Jedwabne, that all this has been investigated by the prosecutors and described, and the investigation has been completed. I appeal to you, get off this road. Polish-Jewish relations are important for all of us, it is worth respecting them, it is worth nurturing them, it is not worth destroying them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u71	Thank you very much. Please, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Jacek Chaputowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u72	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for those words, opinions about foreign policy. It is important that we discuss this in the Chamber. I also thank you for the criticism that was constructive, although sometimes I think it was going too far. [[Where was she constructive? Minister, please.]] The proposals presented will certainly be analysed in the Ministry. We will want to bring them into work, even though we believe that we are pursuing a good foreign policy, in the interests of our country. It is never that everything is done in a perfect way. I would also like to thank the members of the coalition for their vote of support, Mrs Gosievska, Minister Waszczykowski, other representatives of the club, who have even developed some threads on the United Right's foreign policy in their speeches. I would like to address these critical voices first and foremost. Many Members - Mr Szłapka, Mr Petru and many others - pointed out that I did not refer to the article. 7. Indeed, it is worth a few words too. Let me remind you that the European Commission made a proposal to the Council in December 2017 under Article. 7. In accordance with the procedure laid down in the Treaty, the examination of this proposal should be terminated by a vote and the State which is recognised by the competent body as defined in that Treaty may be called upon to supplement, possibly even punished, and may also be deprived of the right to vote. The European Commission has made this request. Thanks to our diplomacy, thanks to arguments, and above all thanks to the recognition of the right body, sufficient number of countries that Poland is carrying out reform of the justice system correctly... The European Commission has a problem, it cannot move on to the next stage. In fact, she should put this proposal to the vote, but she knows that she would lose the vote, which is why she doesn't, which is why she doesn't know what to do. That is why Vice-President Frans Timmermans can ask for another hearing. He is unable to act in accordance with the Treaty because he would have to admit defeat, he would have to admit that from his point of view there is no majority as defined in the Treaty. All he can do is wait for his term to end. There is no other possibility because you do not share his position. Many of you raised the question - such a password was created here: 27 to 1 - and at the same time I was accused of saying that Donald Tusk is not a representative of Poland. He's not the representative. Don't you see a contradiction here? It was 27:1 and Poland voted against... [[Member Paulina Hennig-Kloska: Not Poland, only the Polish government.]] ...because she had her representative, Mr Saryusz-Wolski. According to the treaties, a Member State can submit one candidate, so it is known that Poland cannot support another representative, or Donald Tusk, who was not a representative of Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, it's so obvious that I wonder why I have to repeat this. The fact that I say so is against the intelligence of a normal human being. [[But not the opposition.]] [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Shame on you.]] Ladies and gentlemen, since he was not Polish of course, it is a question of whose representative he was. It is known that only the Member States must be... [[Voice from the Chamber: European.]] [[Member Paulin Hennig-Kloska: He was a Polish representative, but not a Polish government.]] He was not a representative of the Polish government. In accordance with the treaties in the Council of State, we were represented by governments and prime ministers, i.e. by Prime Minister Beata Szydło, and not by opposition, not by anyone else, there was no other candidate... I am sorry, but these are the fundamental principles of the functioning of international organisations, including the European Union. We had our representative - Jack Saryusz-Wolski, who will run for European Parliament elections, and we will not withdraw from this, nor will we recognise that Donald Tusk is a representative of Poland during this term. [[Applause]] Yes, he was a representative of Poland, but in the previous term. [[Great, bravo.]] Yes, sir. It's a very good question of whose representative he was. I would expect you to explain whose candidate Donald Tusk was during this vote. [[Applause]] [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Poles and Poles.]] [[This is your embarrassment and your shame.]] Some of you here drew attention, even Mr Halicki in his speech said that the 20th anniversary of Poland's accession to NATO was celebrated, but not in Warsaw, but in Prague. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry, but I attended a meeting with NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg, who was not in Prague. I was in the debate with German Minister of Defence von der Leyen just about NATO. On Sunday - the Foreign Minister doesn't always do it, but I do. I did - I picked up the premieres of Victor Orbán, Pellegrini, Babiš. They were waiting for them at the Merry Prime Minister Morawiecki and four defense ministers. This Sunday they came to celebrate the anniversary of the 20th anniversary of NATO membership. How can you say that we do not celebrate in Poland, only in Prague? There too, of course, we were represented by the President, but earlier President Andrzej Duda visited many military units for a week in connection with this anniversary together with the Minister of National Defence Mariusz Błaszczak. Ladies and gentlemen, certain facts should be presented. I understand we're in a political dispute, but sticking to a certain factography is necessary here. Many of you raised the issue of the Middle East conference, among others. Mr Richard Petru, Mr Długa. The conference is an expression of the responsibility of Poland, an expression of membership of the UN Security Council, an expression of concern for peace. This wasn't about delivering... There were over 60 countries. How can it be seen as a forum in the election campaign of Prime Minister Netanyahu? Yes, Prime Minister Netanyahu was invited. Yes, it was the Middle East, and Israel is in the Middle East. Yes, he played an important role because there are tensions in Israel, between Israel and the Arab countries. That is why this conference was so important that these groups could be prepared. The conference was an expression of the deepening of our strategic partnership with the United States. How can you say it's some sort of service, catering? That's what they said. No, it's not like it wasn't possible to organize this conference. You're talking about Iran that we had an argument with Iran. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to see reality. Poland has been working with Western countries, democratic countries, democracy for 30 years. This is where these countries came together. You wanted Poland to join the meeting in Sochi Russia, Turkey and Iran on the Middle East. Is this the way of our foreign policy? It's not like there's any business here that we have to get something for every action, get something for something. This is the building of a long partnership, a strategic partnership with countries belonging to the communities of democratic states. I don't want to exchange these 60 countries. All the Member States of the European Union were present at this conference because they considered it important. Twelve foreign ministers, my colleagues, were personally, in dozens of cases there were their deputies, including Minister Jeremy Hunt representing the United Kingdom, Italian minister and ministers from these regions. They were our most important partners in the East: a minister from Ukraine, a minister from Georgia. NATO members were also present here. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to exchange ministers from Brazil, Kenya or South Korea. These are important people. We rarely have contact with such countries. [[You should've made an appointment.]] Of course, we had bilateral discussions as far as possible. Anyway, what I'm trying to say is this isn't over. This is the beginning of the Warsaw process. We'll continue to work together. I have foretold the formation of working groups. Poland will be included. Not much, Poland will be the leader of these groups together with the United States. We will try to bring this process to an end. Of course, there are many enemies of this conference. I mentioned the countries that met in Sochi. Not everyone is interested in peace, there are different tensions. I would like this matter to be understood in this Chamber, where our strategic interests are, where there is a fight for peace, with whom we should keep in foreign policy, and where our competitors are, so as not to tell our enemies. Ladies and gentlemen! There were also threads concerning our participation in the process of European integration. Mr Michał Kaminski spoke about the European Union. I said during our speech that our membership of the European Union is very positive. 47% GDP in 2004, now above 70%. That's the one. We want to use our membership of the European Union for the economic development of Poland, also cultural, also in terms of values. It is also about cooperation with our partners from the European Union, with Germany too, with France and other countries, there is no contradiction here. Mrs Joanna Mucha has made a very interesting statement, very informative to me. She called our Members representing the Law and Justice, called for some names, coalitions, threats to the European Union. Mr Furgo mentioned these names: Mr Salvini and Mr Viktor Orbán, that this is such a threat. Ladies and gentlemen, I wonder, Law and Justice is in the European Parliament with British Conservatives... [[It's gone.]] ...is in the ECR group, while the closest ally to the Civic Platform is Fidesz and Viktor Orbán. You're in the European Parliament together, you're working together, you're setting up policies, you're running election letters. [[And you guys are drinking torch.]] We're a competitor of the EPP. And you can instruct us that we are with Orbán, if you are the day. on a day in the European Parliament in a single faction? [[Applause]] Today, the president of the Manfred Weber faction in Budapest talked about whether or not to rule out. Not to rule out, because you want to work with them. As the Polish Government cooperates with the Hungarian Government, headed by Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, it is wrong and you are in fact every day. That 27:1 was with Viktor Orbán. This is your policy, your chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, please don't insult your own, so to speak, logic. In other words, this thread of the European Parliament is quite important here. There are issues concerning posted workers. Many Members alleged that Poland did not fight against the rights that we did not apply to the policy of Macron. I present Polish politics, not other leaders, I do not have to refer to any conclusions. But this is a good example: a policy for posted workers. I understand that it is not good for Poland that this directive has been introduced. That's how I understand those words. But at the same time, I read because one of you inspired me, today's article by President Grzegorz Schetin. He supports Macron's policy, he speaks and sees nothing wrong with the Posted Workers Directive. So what's it like? [[Joy in the Chamber]] This directive spoils the European Union, it needs to be criticised - we agree here - but you criticize that we are ineffective, and yet you do not see that it spoils the concept of the European Union, and you support it. It is about today's article, which I heard appeared in 12 countries. And there is nothing about it that this is a bad policy for Poland, for the European Union. What do you mean, yes? We have common Polish interests or we have interests depending on how we interpret it, right? So that, ladies and gentlemen, the same applies to budget money. Mr Obrycki raised this issue. The effectiveness of Poland is to build a group of friends of cohesion policy. We will continue our work to fight for this budget when it comes to these issues. It is not that the Commission said that Poland will give 20% less, and Romania will give more. No, they're not mentioned there, it's not like that. There are some economic indicators that may project, but Germany will also get less. We want to maintain this policy. [[But you're the minister.]] There is no way in the Union to say that these are Poles, these are Romanians, these are ladies, and these are not. That's not how the Union works. The Union is acting fairly. We can only prove together whether it is worth maintaining high funding for cohesion policy or the common agricultural policy, or whether it is worth shifting funds to others [[♪ The bell ♪]] areas of activity. Hence the differences that exist here between countries. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u73	Thank you, Minister. Who among you and your fellow Members would like to subscribe to the question? I'm closing the list. First Mrs Małgorzata Gosievska, Law and Justice. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u74	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Together we managed to lead to the establishment of the Polish Institute in Tbilisi, an institute that actually worked before it was formally established. Minister, it's probably the most dynamic institute in the world, despite a small staff. But this is because first of all, it is led by young people, full of enthusiasm for work, to service for Poland, but second of all, by their actions... [[How many jobs? One. One job.]] ...are vulnerable to the soil. Minister! There are still many places in the world for Polish culture. There are also places where we should exist because of our Polish interests. And questions. What plans do the Ministry now have for opening new institutes? Are these plans located in a institute in the Balkans close to us, Brazil inhabited by the second-largest Polonia? Can we also expect that it will exist in one of the largest [[♪ The bell ♪]] U.S. cities, the leading center of the world economy, in Seattle? Please respond in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u75	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u76	Minister! As we learned that your predecessor had passed away, we were relieved, and even - I can say - we have crossed your fingers, but after even today you are saying that Donald Tusk was not a Polish candidate for President of the European Council, I have one thing to say, Minister: the experiment failed. This, of course, is very, very sad. [[It wasn't, it wasn't.]] [[CDU candidate.]] But there is still a key issue that I would like to inform the High House about, and I would like to ask the Minister a question. There is such a thing as the recommendations of the Paris UN. They say that the ombudsman in the United Nations countries should have functional immunity, should not be exposed to retaliation, to intimidation. The government's TVP filed a personal property infringement suit against the Ombudsman Adam Bodnar as a private person. What institutions, what international organisations have intervened in this matter? This is absolutely outrageous what the government TVP is doing to [[♪ The bell ♪]] Polish ombudsman. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u77	Thank you very much, sir. I wanted to welcome teachers and students from Primary School No. 1 in Turku. Welcome. [[Applause]] Now please, Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u78	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! As a Member of Warmia and Mazury, I have a question and I will ask for a written reply. Warmia and Mazury, Kaliningrad region, small border traffic. In short, maybe it's time to answer in writing why Warmia and Mazury have no local border traffic. Today we are fighting for a small border traffic with Belarus. What are the arguments? The border with Russia, with the Kaliningrad circuit, is a ploughed belt. Whoever really wants to cross that line will do it for a savage. I'm sorry for the expression, but that's what it looks like. This line is just a ploughed belt. That's one thing. In your speech, in your speech, Minister, I ran out of China. We are talking about the second country, the second economy of the world, and we are moving on to this in this whole discussion somewhere on page 25, Minister, in two sentences or in one sentence, as if it was not a business issue. And the third line. If you want to run a policy towards the United States to make it a partnership, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And not surrender? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u79	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, the Modern Club. There's no envoy. [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] [[I'm here, I'm here.]] There it is. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u80	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I'll try to ask you three questions within this minute. First. Since, for a long time, since the first speech by your predecessor, Minister Waszczykowski, we hear that Poland, which is not satisfied with the results of the Eastern Partnership, will propose a new model of cooperation with the countries of the former Soviet Union, and especially with those that were once invited to the Eastern Partnership, I would like to know if any work is ongoing, at what stage, This is because this promise fell three years ago and we haven't seen anything since. Second thing about Belarus. You have talked about problems in relations with the Belarusian state, and recently in the Committee on Communication with Poles abroad we have been informed that the de facto signed protocol, the signed agreement is not implemented and Polish experts are not admitted to the committees preparing curricula in Polish. And one last thing. Why doesn't the Consulate in Grodno issue a Polish Kart for their social school graduates? John Paul II [[♪ The bell ♪]] In Grodno? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u81	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Ryszard Galla, a non-attached Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u82	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Allow me to continue with the questions about Polish-German relations - perhaps not about the round table, but about a very specific thing that concerns the border area of Oder. As you know, in July 2015, a joint agreement was signed to maintain this part of the Oder. She was mostly so in character that she was concerned with ongoing maintenance, including winter maintenance. When the government changed, it came to the conclusion that this agreement should be renegotiated, that it should not only cover operational issues, but should also cover investment issues related to the restoration of the Oder's navigability. I would therefore like to ask, at what stage we are at, because we are already passing almost that term. Are they really having these conversations, what their condition is and what the effects of this can be, taking into account the benefits in terms of acknowledgment? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Odrzany Waterway? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u83	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Józef Leśniak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u84	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! For many years the glory of our country and an important contribution to strengthening international peace and security has been the participation of Polish soldiers in UN peacekeeping operations. This situation changed during the reign of the previous coalition, when, at the initiative of the Foreign Minister, not only dozens of diplomatic posts were removed, significantly weakening the representation of our country in the world, but also the Polish blue helmets were withdrawn from peaceful operations. There is no doubt that this situation did not have a positive impact on the international image of our country, it also weakened the importance of Poland within the framework of the United Nations system. In view of the above, I would like to ask: What is the implementation of the promise made by the Minister and Minister Waszczykowski concerning the return of our country? [[♪ The bell ♪]] to the United Nations peacekeeping operation? Thank you very much. Please respond in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u85	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Marek Krzakła, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u86	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You said today that politics is a national matter, not a party matter. Then tell me: What else is Ambassador Przyłębski doing in Berlin? When are you gonna cancel it? I've quoted you with his outrageous statements. When are you gonna stop this embarrassment? After all, you have every authority to do this. Or do you have your hands tied? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Apel, Kukiz.15. [[He'll be here later.]] Please, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u88	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I can honestly say that I really feel sorry for the Minister for having to firm his own PiS policy because it's not your policy, it's not your state policy, it's a PiS policy. The best example is what happens to the Polish ambassador in Italy. First you called off one of the best ambassadors, Mr Tomasz Orłowski, for a year no ambassador was appointed, and then you invented Mr Konrad Głębocki, who resigned after 3 weeks because he found that he could not do it. There's been a vacancy in this position for months. Minister, if this is a competent diplomacy, I think we're really in a banana republic. How can one not delegate an ambassador to one of the most important countries of the European Union when things are actually happening in Italy right now? The Italian Ambassador in Poland has no one to work with, because there is no equivalent in Rome. Minister, this is for real. [[♪ The bell ♪]] scandal, what are you doing? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u89	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Ostrowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u90	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, For the purposes of the upcoming elections, the so-called. Total opposition invented the word polexit. There are no substantive reasons for this situation. The opposition itself does not believe it, but cynically, perfidiously, with the help of friendly media, it repeats the slogan, hoping for the stupidity of part of society and for us to break a few percentage points in the upcoming elections. Minister, what action have you taken or are you planning to take to counter this clever manipulation? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u91	Thank you very much. Mrs Dorota Rutkowska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u92	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The diplomat is a man who will think twice before he says anything - Winston Churchill. Foreign Minister Jacek Chaputowicz in December Ub. He called France a sick man of Europe. Minister, maybe not twice, but five times you had to think before you said something so non-diplomatic. [[Applause]] In this extremely unfortunate opinion, you are destroying many years of attempts to rebuild good Polish-French relations. I am the president of the Polish-French Parliamentary Group, I listened to what you would say about your relationship with France, and I must say that I did not find out much. You've mentioned a few common new goals. But how can they be realized in such an atmosphere? This April marks the 100th anniversary of the resumption of diplomatic relations with France. Minister, on this occasion I recommend more reflection. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And more restraint. I wanted to ask you how you intend to highlight this anniversary. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u93	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u94	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Foreign policy is also economic policy. A very important part of Poland is agricultural production. Unfortunately, we have great negligence in this field. Polish food is attacked by countries from the European Union, from Ukraine we import huge amounts of food. My question concerns the incomprehensible actions of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which supports its money, actually public money, the development of agriculture in Ukraine and in other countries east of our border. My question: Why is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs acting to the detriment of Polish agriculture? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u95	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u96	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In a sensible foreign policy, the primacy of allegiance to the interests of the state and citizens reigns. Unfortunately, today in this something that pretends to be Polish foreign policy, reigns, ladies and gentlemen, political feudalism. Its essence is to submit the shallow interests of Party Rights and Justice and interests of other countries over the tactical and far-reaching interests of the Republic of Poland and its citizens. That's our consent, Minister, isn't it? All the more so because the truth is obvious: the PiS in diplomacy never knew each other, today you don't know each other and you'll never know each other. We all remember the words of Władysław Bartoszewski, who was unrelenting. Really, Minister, we would all like to have a substantive conversation today, but there is only one dramatic question on the lips: Minister, when will Poland be conducting foreign policy again? I have to say, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The question as to whether this will be a subjective policy is at this moment a question which is absolutely unlawful, because this foreign policy simply does not exist. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u97	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Marcin Duszek, Law and Justice. Are you an MP? There's no envoy. Please, Mr Tomasz Głogowski, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u98	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Foreign policy has never been the strong side of this government, but what has happened in recent years, in recent months, this situation, it is already dramatic. I wanted to ask the Minister whether the information is true that Poland had advanced talks in order to establish a joint diplomatic representation of this group before the Visegrad Group summit in Jerusalem. This summit, Poland's participation in it, was cancelled after the insulting speech of the Israeli minister, but at that summit was opened in Jerusalem: the Hungarian Trade Office, the Slovak Centre for Innovation and Culture and the Czech House. These events clearly bring this summit to the element of the Israeli Prime Minister's election campaign. Our participation in this campaign is unknowable for what. The international community does not recognize the united Jerusalem as Israel's capital. Poland has so far taken the view that the future of this divided city should be decided within the framework of the Israeli-Palestinian peace agreement. So I wanted to ask: Did Poland, together with other countries of the Visegrad Group, really plan to open its diplomatic representation against our allies, our partners from the European Union [[♪ The bell ♪]] to participate in the delegation of the Visegrad Group in Jerusalem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u99	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Chasing, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u100	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have a question about stability, continuity, credibility and consistency of Polish foreign policy towards Polish entrepreneurs. About 2016 the Polish Ministry of Foreign Affairs organized trips, the Polish-Iranian Chamber of Commerce, encouraged Polish entrepreneurs to invest in Iran. Some Polish entrepreneurs trusted the Polish government, invested, went to do business for them, it was supposed to be an Eldorado for them, and then the Americans told you to do a conference about Iran without Iran and everything collapsed. The same is true now with the moms, the moms of Polish entrepreneurs market in China, the Polish silk trail, the Chinese silk trail. The question is, how are you again? The Americans are going to make a conference about China without China, so what will happen to those Polish entrepreneurs who will fall for it again? Are you planning to set up some kind of compensation fund due to instability, or could you at least negotiate with the United States something long-term before you mislead Polish entrepreneurs that they can make money somewhere? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u101	Thank you very much. With a formal proposal from Mr Winnicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u102	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make a formal request for an adjournment. I ask that this be considered by the Senior Convention, because today there is a scandalous situation in which the meeting of the Senior Group. public debate scheduled for today at 3 p.m. 18.30 in the Sejm, during which he was to debate about the Warsaw LGBT card with the participation of representatives of the Ministry of National Education, with the participation of the curatorium of education, with the participation of representatives of churches, social organizations, was just cancelled by Minister Kaczmarska. So Minister Kaczmarska, as Head of the Sejm's Office, forbids Members to organise on the issues of discussion in the Sejm, in Parliament for well-known reasons. I believe that this is absolutely outrageous activity of this nominate of Mr. Marshal Kuchciński, and I believe that this should be explained immediately, because the guests from the ministries, from the offices, the representatives of the various churches are on their way to the Sejm to debate on this issue, and Minister Kaczmarska's meeting of the team to which she is [[♪ The bell ♪]] Guaranteed room, just deleted.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u103	Unfortunately, this is not a formal proposal, Mr Sejm, for this meeting. Please, Mrs Paulina Henning-Kloska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u104	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In October Ub. Mr Ziobro asked the Constitutional Court to examine the compatibility of one of the articles of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union with the Polish Constitution. If the Constitutional Tribunal decides that these documents are incompatible, we will actually have two choices, because it is actually impossible to change the Treaty of the Union: we will be able to change the Polish constitution or step out of the European Union. What are you going to do to prevent this problem? I do not see any action on your part in this, and the situation seems to be quite critical. Second thing. I wanted to ask you about Fort Trump. According to the latest information, you have not been able to convince the United States to build a permanent base in our country. On the contrary, the Americans are going to cut spending on the Eastern NATO flank. Is it true that the government received a negative answer a week ago? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u105	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Sławomir Hajos, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u106	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is with great regret, sometimes even with disbelief, that we accept statements of opposition representatives, who often try to present, prove that democracy and the rule of law are allegedly at risk in Poland. The fact that these actions are fortunately ineffective is evidenced by the decisions of the Member States of an organisation such as the Community of Democracy, which entrusted Poland with leadership in this global and intergovernmental coalition of states. Let me remind you that the main objective of this organisation is to promote democracy and strengthen democratic standards and institutions in the world. Therefore, I have a question for the Minister. Minister, what will be the objectives of our leadership in the Community of Democracy, which begins this month, on 16 March? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u107	Thank you, sir. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u108	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! What do you mean, there are no rule of law criteria in the European Union? If the European Court of Justice issues a judgment in which it says that the rule of law in Poland is at stake, then will the Polish government adapt to it - because it will already be a criterion - or will it also question this criterion? [[Depends on how justified it is.]] What will then be the way to our existence in the European Union? The second question, already very specific, is related to the so-called. a platform for mining sites, Just Transition. This is a Polish initiative implemented by the European Commission. Whether the government will look at this very consistently and fight to ensure that the level of €4.8 billion - so much has been allocated to this platform - is increased in the next [[♪ The bell ♪]] the financial tranche of the European Union? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u109	Thank you, sir. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u110	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the European Union, the conditions for accession to the Free Trade Agreement with Mercosur are being intensively negotiated, inter alia. Brazil and Argentina. What is the Polish commitment to negotiations? Is it ever gonna turn out that we're gonna be losers again, like the free trade agreement with Canada, so-called. CETA? One more thing, this case was already mentioned today. When will the government appoint an ambassador in Italy? Today we had a meeting of the Polish-Italian bilateral group and Ambassador Aldo Amati presented us this problem. I think he needs to be summoned to cooperate with the Italians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u111	Thank you, sir. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u112	Mrs. Marshalkini! Minister! I will answer your question, whose representative was Prime Minister Donald Tusk. Germans. Remember that. It was the Germans who saved the honour and pride of the Polish society, not the Polish government, unfortunately. This is an outrage. Here we have a few words, in my opinion, equally outrageous. Suddenly it turned out that Law and Justice loved the European Union. After all, this is post-truth, this is pre-election propaganda. The state has been accusing the opposition of reporting to the European Union at all times. Because the European Union is saving the Polish constitution from your governments. You must know that. One more important thing. Theater directors, curators of festivals in Germany, France, Spain, Italy ask me about Polish democracy. I answer them that Polish democracy is best seen in the works of Polish artists and artists. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is such a situation that it is them who, while practicing this Polish democracy, this Polish art, give us reason to be proud. Agnieszka Holland, Agnieszka Smoczyńska, Katarzyna Kozyra, Krystian Lupa, Krzysztof Warlikowski...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u113	Finish your work, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u114	... Joanna Kulig, Jan Klata, Jadwiga Grabowska-Hawrylak, Tomasz Nebulaty, Mariusz Treliński, Piotr Beczala, Grzegorz Jarzyna, Behemot with Nergal - these are those who actually practice Polish foreign policy and not your office, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u115	Thank you, sir, but stick to the time. Please, Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] And please don't comment on the speeches.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u116	That's right. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As Vice-President of the Communications Committee, I meet with information, both from Poles living outside the country and from Poles living in our country, about the important improvement in the work of Polish consular posts, especially in terms of better availability outside office hours. This is important due to the fact that during the stay of foreign things unpleasant, especially unpleasant, happen unfortunately not during working hours of such offices. Moreover, a very good step - and I also say this from the perspective of the communication committee, or rather its vice-president - was the establishment of new consulates in Houston and Belfast, serving large clusters of Poles in the south-western part of the United States and Northern Ireland, at a time like today. In this context, I would like to ask the Minister two questions. I'd ask you to evaluate the action... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Consular Information Centre and more information on changes that have taken place in the consular service in the last 3 years. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u117	Thank you, sir. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u118	Thank you. Dear Marshal! Minister! For a few years now, you've been running a mining restructuring policy, you've been demolishing mines, you've been decommissioning jobs. You do all this for taxpayers' money. Seven billion zlotys have been allocated for this purpose. At the initiative of the Prime Minister, Prof. Buzek, a Platform for the Support of Mining Regions approved by the European Commission was established. Minister, I wanted to ask you how much money from this fund the Polish government intends to take to the ongoing rehabilitation, revitalization of mining sites, how much money from this fund you will secure, get to Silesia. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u119	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u120	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Minister, just a simple question: What happened to those secret co-workers of the Communist Service who worked at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? In your exposé, you said you handled the problem, and I'd like to know how you handled it. Are they already gone or have they been moved or are they in foreign offices? I think it would be important to know how you dealt with this problem and where they are today, and whether the Ministry of Foreign Affairs really or no subordinate office has a problem with secret co-workers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u121	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u122	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Members of the opposition have repeatedly delivered the thesis on the alleged international isolation of Poland through the media from the Seym Council. Unsubstantiated criticism accompanied the statement that they did not want to talk to us This is Berlin, and this is Washington or Kiev, that representatives of the Polish state will not be admitted abroad. The fact that this thesis is not true is evidently borne out by numerous visits and international meetings of the President, the Prime Minister, a number of visits at the highest level in Poland. But I would like to ask the Minister as head of Polish diplomacy how often you met with your counterparts from such important countries as the USA, Germany, Great Britain and Ukraine last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u124	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! For years before he came to power, PiS shared Poles, talking about the lie of Smolensk, talking about the catastrophe of Smolensk. You said that if you came to power, the wreck of Tupolev would return to the country. So, Minister - after all this propaganda you argued with Poles - my question: What are you doing about it? What is the Polish government doing to finally return Tupolewa to Poland where it belongs? We've been hearing about this for a long time, and now it's clear that Smolensk fuel has run out and you're sweeping under the rug. This cannot be done, this cannot be manipulated by Polish society, so I ask for specific information about what you are doing to bring the wreckage, that is, our Polish property, back to the country. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Głuchowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u126	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! After the liquidation of our diplomatic presence on the African continent, the current government recreates a network of diplomatic offices, which, in addition to having political significance, provide significant support for Polish companies, provide assistance to our fellow countrymen living outside the country. In his speech, the Minister referred, among others, to the Minister. to participate in the opening of our embassies in Tanzania and Senegal in 2018. I therefore wanted to know what further plans are for the development of diplomatic, political, economic relations with African countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u127	Thank you, sir. Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u128	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You said in your exposé that Germany is our most important neighbour and partner, but I think we have an ambassador there. who has some anti-German phobia and even anti-Polish phobia, if he talks about a friend of Polish Joachim Gauck, the President, says that he has narrowed his horizons, and if he says that the last hundred years of Polish-German relations is just one big disaster, he talks about Polish media independent of the government, that these are bias media and evil, he talks about the economic catastrophe in Poland until 2015, etc., etc. I think this ambassador is actually... Would you subscribe to these statements, under his statements, or can you say that these statements and these statements are also presented on your behalf? And yet from you he gets - I don't know if from you or your predecessor - a reward for his activities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u129	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, Law and Justice. There's no envoy. Mr Leszek Ruszczyk, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u130	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Diplomacy is designed to develop the most advantageous architecture for our country in the international arena. That's what you said. And I have a question: What architecture has diplomacy developed for Polish farmers? What are the subsidies? Will it be in line with what you preached in the election campaign that direct payments will increase significantly? As long as they increase and will they increase at all? And second question: What did Polish diplomacy do about securing the interests of Poles living in Great Britain or Northern Ireland in the light of brexitu without agreement, as indicated by the current situation in England? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u131	Thank you very much. And Mr Michał Jach, Law and Justice. There's no envoy. Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u132	Minister! Mrs. Marshal! For the last three years, Minister, you have very, very destroyed the image of Poland. PiS-owski's attitude to European values and standards openly suggested distance, and sometimes hostility, he discharged Poland from the western community. PiS gave Poles unmercifully, but unfortunately effectively the mouth of complex provinces, xenophobics, egoists, anti-Semitics. The image of Polish PiS will not save any yachts calling at all ports of the world, nor propaganda films. This is not a bank ad, Mr. Moravian Prime Minister's bank, where Chuck Norris could be helping his clients with any bullshit. The image and reputation of Poland are a serious issue whose positive dimensions are built by generations, sometimes for decades struggling with the burden of inherited stereotypes and prejudices. The PiS government has proven that it will take several years of massaged internal and external action to destroy many of the positive achievements of the predecessors. [[♪ The bell ♪]] When, ladies and gentlemen, will you stop disgusting and start using real heroes: Lech Wałęsa, Władysław Frasyniuk, Bogdan Borusewicz or Władysław Bartoszewski to promote Poland? When you appreciate and use Poland as a promotion...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u133	Step to the end, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u134	...the great culture of our culture: Miłosz, Wajda, Holland and Pasikowski? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u135	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Piotr Polek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u136	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The past year 2018 was a great success of Polish diplomacy, but also of the entire Polish government in ordering matters related to relocation of refugees and migrants in Europe. In June it turned out after many months of discussion and conviction that Poland and other countries, for example Hungary, were right that this forced mechanism had to be changed to another. And it was successfully realized. In the right direction, Minister, there are also cases this year relating to Nord Stream 2. We know that recently the European Parliament adopted a resolution on this issue to block the construction of this pipeline, which is absolutely not only good for Poland. Do we therefore have the opportunity to repeat this scheme, which was applied to refugees, precisely with regard to Nord Stream 2, [[♪ The bell ♪]] So we can block this investment effectively? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u137	Thank you, sir. Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u138	Minister! It was absolutely a cardinal mistake to organize the Middle East conference in Warsaw. It has been completely forgotten that there are so many variables in the Middle East, so many different interests. In addition, global and local trends need to be taken into account in this type of project. In addition, which unfortunately is very sad for us, on this occasion your government has exposed considerable indolence to partners, friends from the European Union, and thus also to friends from Palestine. Your government has completely missed out on a good opportunity for the Palestinian cause to sound on the international stage in a proper and worthy way. Since this is not the case, which is extremely shocking, I would like to ask the Minister whether the government will have elementary honesty and make a simple gesture towards the Palestinian State as soon as possible and will increase significantly the amounts transferred to humanitarian aid by paying funds to the UN Agenda for the Aid of Palestinian Refugees in the Middle East. [[♪ The bell ♪]] At the same time, I would like to call on the Minister of Culture, Piotr Gliński, to allocate funds for financial support for the renovation of the Basilica of the Birth of the Lord in Bethlehem. This would be a very appropriate, meaningful, as well as a very symbolic gesture of the Polish state towards the State of Palestine. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u139	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk, Law and Justice. There's no envoy. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Platform. There is no Member. Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. There's no... [[Voice from the room: There it is, there it is.]] You're an MP.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u140	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I listened attentively to your two-hour speech. To be honest, there wasn't much I could learn from it, because apart from statistics on numerous meetings, trips, etc. There were few substantive comments, but there was actually no indication of what the effects of all these great meetings are. You've met a critic here who's justified, who you've responded to in an explosive way, which is unworthy of a diplomat. I have two questions. Speaking of relations with Russia, you didn't say anything about the coal that the import of which avalanchely accelerated. The second issue concerns the Warsaw conference, which did not actually have any effect. You're talking about success, and it was really a complete embarrassment. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How do you really feel about this situation? I understand you should finally hit your chest and tell the truth. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u141	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u142	Minister! On the journey around the world you took us to, you missed Fort Trump. And that raises the question of whether this is a real political being, Minister, or whether it was a flash of Presidential genius to the extent of defending a conventional light bulb. What about Fort Trump? The next issue is the Tri-Moor. What or what will give Donald Trump's verbal support for this initiative? Serious question: What do you expect from the support of the European Commission for this initiative? And what is your attitude towards Germany's presence in the Tri-marine initiative? Local question about the Polish-Czech border area: What about the Czech border debt? 'Cause it's kind of like chasing a bunny. More than 60 years of tradition on this issue. And one last thing. You said you were kind enough to accept criticism. I would therefore like to present to you the report prepared by the Institute of Bronisław Komorowski three years of foreign policy of the Government of Law and Justice. I think you'd like to know that. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u143	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u144	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! To conclude today's speech, you said: the foreign policy of the state is a national matter, not a party matter. I have a question: Why did you tell the youngest adepts of Polish diplomacy that in the career of diplomats in the current government the criterion of party loyalty is important? After all, these were not words addressed to people who wanted to hold key leadership positions, but to young people at the beginning of their careers in diplomatic school. And second question. Further MFA teams led to the adoption of the Foreign Service Act, like many Western counterparts. You tried to dismantle this bill in many ways, while formally accusing the Polish diplomatic corps of lack of patriotism. For the last time, such words were uttered in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Minister, when will you withdraw from these disgraceful words concerning the party's loyalty to future diplomacy adepts and the lack of patriotism addressed to the diplomatic corps? When will you apologize to Poles and Poles for this? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u145	Thank you, Member. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u146	Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I will focus on Europe, because about these tasks of Polish foreign policy for this year unfortunately the Minister has not said much. The first issue is the issue of the European Union budget. The previous government negotiated EUR 107 billion for this perspective. Today we have a forecast that it's going to be 20%. less that there will be lower resources for agriculture. What exactly are you going to do about it? A failed climate summit in Katowice on the challenges of anti-smog and energy policy and on renewable sources. We look forward to hearing from you. The state has indicated that we are at a difficult time of Brexit, a hard brexite. How did you secure the business of about 100,000? Polish workers here, in Poland, but also in the UK? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The polexit case. I agree with you that the European Union is acting fairly. This polyxit can wait for us thanks to your policy on breaking the rule of law. When are you gonna get out of this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u147	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Marek Owa, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u148	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! When assessing PiS' international policy, it is difficult not to ask: What has Poland done to you that you have humiliated her so much in the international arena? A few examples. The European Union. We recently celebrated the second anniversary of Beata Szydło's defeat. At the time, as an expert, the Minister had a part in this. As I can see, your well-being hasn't left you in two years. Cooperation with Ukraine. I could mention more examples of your inability. The position of Poland and its proposals best illustrate the photograph of Marshal Terletki from his last visit to Ukraine. A cigarette hanging in your mouth is what you can offer today to our neighbor fighting a real attack and a specific enemy. Or would you like to boast about the IPN Act? True, the PiS was mainly pressured by the United States and Israel to withdraw from it, but the problem remained. I will remind you that bilateral high-level relations were frozen at the time, and President Duda could only meet with the mayor of a small town. [[♪ The bell ♪]] As if that were not enough, you were politically and diplomaticly knocked out by the Prime Minister of Israel, and in his own territory when he arrived for the Middle Eastern conference called anti-Iranian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u149	Thank you, sir. Mr Grzegorz July, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u150	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! You spoke during your speech about the need to reflect on priorities. As a result, we already know that these transatlantic issues are difficult to call priorities. Fort Trump this is so small has passed away with the wind. We know that it is difficult to call our Middle Eastern policy priorities, because Poland as one of the few countries has been able to ignite relations with both Iran and Israel. Bravo, Minister, because this play brings us closer to Saud's foreign policy, or perhaps even the ISIS countries. Then I'll ask you about these priorities. Is this the North? We know that you managed to divide the disputed areas in the Baltic Sea with Denmark. 80% for Poland and 20% for Denmark? No, the other way around. We have managed to call off consuls in the case of Norway. How about the South? The representatives of the Visegrad Group, our strategic partner, went to Israel without Poland and participated in the summit of the Visegrad Group. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They also voted on the issues of the President of the European Council. What about the East or the West? It looks just as bad everywhere. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u151	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Paweł Suski. There's no envoy. Mr Piotr Cieślinski. There isn't either. Ms Anna Wasilewska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u152	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Diplomacy historians will not forget you, Minister, personal contribution to the work of a 1:27 vote for Poland against your own countryman. You can't deny that you had your part in this, even though you were still an expert at the time. Why are you still trying today to convince Members of the opposition and European speakers that Donald Tusk, at the head of the European Council, is actually a representative of Germany, that the procedure for extending his term of office was illegal? When are you going to apologize to the Poles for these things that are against national interest? And one more question. There's a rotation at the director's office at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in your reign as a carousel. During those 3.5 years, you listed four CEOs in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. When you start hiring experienced professionals in key positions, not relatives [[♪ The bell ♪]] And friends related to Law and Justice? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u153	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Bogdan Rzonec, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u154	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Congratulations. As Minister Waszczykowski said, we are the subject. We decide what we do in Poland. The world notes the actions of the Foreign Minister. Just congratulations. But I wanted to refer to Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk's speech, who is the head of the team working on awareness, proving how enormous losses Poland suffered during World War II. I'm from Jasla. This city was destroyed in 97% by Walter Gentz, who committed suicide in 1967 when he was arrested. He knew exactly what he had done with Jasel. He just burned down the whole town. Nomen omen September 13, 1934, ordered the destruction of the entire town of Jasl, 15 thousand. Imagine that. There are three buildings left. There are Alexandrian documents, [[♪ The bell ♪]] documents digitized in New York. And it would be a great case if the Foreign Minister would analyze these documents and tell the Germans, as in this case...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u155	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u156	... The Germans destroyed Jaslo. This is very measurable information that can be estimated in dollars, millions, etc.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u157	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u158	Marshal, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u159	Please, Mr Marcin Duszek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u160	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The UK's exit from the European Union is not only a significant weakening of the potential of the whole Community, but also a huge challenge for a large group of our compatriots living in the United Kingdom. In this context, I would like to ask about the actions of the government and Polish diplomacy aimed at guaranteeing the rights of Poles living and working in the UK. Has the rights of Polish entrepreneurs been secured? And second question. When I listened to the Minister's statement, I noted a significant drop in complaints against Poland directed by our citizens to the European Court of Human Rights and, what completes the picture, about a significant increase in the implementation of the Court's judgments. These data are particularly relevant in the context of allegations concerning the alleged threat to the rule of law in our country. I would like to ask: is this information known to other Member States of the European Union in the context of the so-called European Commission. the procedure provided for in Article. 7th Treaty on the European Union? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u161	Thank you, sir. Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u162	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! During your speech you spoke about defending the rights of Poles outside our country. That's good. That's good. You mentioned an undertaking like TVP Vilnius. Can we learn a little more about this project? When he moves, what's his signal? What will the participation of Poles in this project be? By the way, it is worth asking about the situation of Poles in Lithuania at all. For many years the Polish community living in Lithuania has been applying for the possibility of entering the original spelling of names in personal evidence. There are problems with local governments, with the ground and Polish education. Recently President Grybauskait? received a high Polish award. Does this mean that the Lithuanian authorities have finally - in addition to the declarations which they have made several times - taken some concrete steps that will lead to the fact that a significant part of the demands made by the Poles in Lithuania will finally be met? If so, what is the prospect of meeting these demands of Poles? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u163	Thank you, sir. Mr Michał Jach, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u164	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Energy security policy is one of the important elements of foreign policy. In particular, diversification of energy sources is crucial also for state security, not only energy security. Therefore, the government of good change pays much attention to this. Much is happening, such as the recently signed agreement on the delimitation of maritime borders with Denmark, which will enable the Baltic Pipe project to be implemented. Minister! Now I have a question for you: At what stage... What plans does the Ministry have in the context of discussions with our most important ally, the United States, in terms of diversifying the supply of energy sources? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u165	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Piotr Cieślinski, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u166	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today is exactly one month after the end of the Middle East summit in Warsaw. This summit was to be a success and an indication of the Polish position in the international arena, and it turned out to be a triple knockout. One event, two days and a trashed relationship with three countries. It is difficult to say here that Poland was a co-host or any subject of the Middle East Summit. The role of Poland was strictly This is the case. The benefits of the incompetence of the foreign policy of Law and Justice are, in turn, those Hungarians who bought French caracals without hesitation. Minister! I would like to ask the question: What are the determinants of entering the world's first league of politics mentioned by Jack Sasin? What benefits have we gained from the United States? What steps does the Ministry intend to take to improve Polish-Israeli relations? And another question: Is Poland planning to call additional [[♪ The bell ♪]] Such crises and what countries? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u167	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the Foreign Minister, Mr Jack Chaputowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u168	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for all those questions. Some were asked for a written reply. I'm not gonna answer all of them, of course, but I'd like to answer some of them. On the other hand, we will answer all of them in writing. I would like to start with the thread that Mr Marcin Święcicki raised, making such a comparison: if there are sanctions on Russia, then when a country is opposed or not better to a majority vote - then this country could be forced to do so. Oh, no. However, in my exposé, I showed that such a transition or extension of the scope of cases where decisions are taken by majority voting would not be good. This is what shows that consensus can be reached, that you can convince states and that they are all in favour of maintaining sanctions on Russia. On the other hand, one can imagine that if there was a majority vote, e.g. when it comes to the forced redistribution of refugees, it could then be imposed. In other words, we believe that we must respect the path of consensus. The countries are different, they have their traditions, we have to respect that, but there is a way to convince them. That is why we believe that extending the scope of matters in this area would not be good for the European Union, as well as for Poland. I would like to thank Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, who said: Yes, Donald Tusk was a representative of the Germans, yes, the Germans recognized him and it was a good decision. Only if the Member says it - and tells the truth - why is it accepted by the High House as a normal thing, and when I say it either by the government or the club, then it is questioned? [[Don't embarrass yourself, Minister. You're insulting us all here.]] And Mrs Anna Wasilewska e.g. She brought up these issues that I, as an expert in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs... As an expert of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I was indeed at the time, I did not report Mr Jack Wolski to this position, I did not have the opportunity to do so. But he was reported and it has to be recognised, he was a representative of Poland. In other words, we need to be consistent here and respect each other's intelligence, not burden ourselves. I don't see anything wrong here that someone... I am pleased that this has been said by the Member. As regards specific questions, an important question was our relationship with the United States in the area of purchasing military equipment. Where's the offset? There were these kinds of questions. A thread of the condition of the Polish defence industry and offset cooperation... [[But there's no offset.]] ...appeared in the statements of the state. However, often there is a dilemma facing Polish foreign policy and all, one can say, also internally, it is not just a problem of Poland. Firstly, there are two options: you can quickly strengthen the critical capabilities of the military, especially in a region like ours, or wait for the domestic industry to be able to produce the weapon data, which may sometimes take time. Years or decades. We choose the intermediate option. Offset for the Patriot systems in the first phase of the project The Vistula contains 46 liabilities for the sum of about PLN 950 million. There's this offset. There's gonna be this offset. Our neighbors, like Sweden and Romania, bought patriots without offset, in a much poorer configuration. There were several important questions about what's going on with the shipwreck of the government aircraft Tu-154. This issue is raised by Polish representatives in talks with the Russian party. It is also raised by me in the European Union's foreign ministers. There was such a good time, we were heard when Russia was acting against the Skripal family. Russia's negative action, Russia's interference. In the meantime, the Dutch authorities have taken action to punish the perpetrators of the shooting down of Malaysian airlines over Ukraine, but by the Russians. So there was this moment, this is an important moment. And we have some success here. The Polish position was confirmed by Resolution 2246 of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe of 12 October. r. I would like to remind you that this resolution states, quote, that the prolonged detention of the Tu-154M aircraft wreck in the territory of the Russian Federation is deprived of legal basis and does not find a rational and practical justification. The Polish authorities consistently demand compliance with this resolution by the authorities of the Russian Federation. But, of course, it can be said that this wreckage is still in Russia. It's true. Russia does not do many things in accordance with international law and here the possibilities of impact are quite limited. [[That's not what you said.]] In September last year, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs helped organize a visit to Smolensk prosecutors who conducted research on the wreckage. We will not agree to leave this wreck in Russia. We will demand his return until the end. She showed up... [[Over.]] Thank you for your comment, also for your question about our business abroad. Mr Grzegorz Długi asked this question. In the last 3 years, Polish exports have increased from year to year at an average rate of 7% to 9%. In 2017, exports exceeded EUR 200 billion and in 2018 reached the highest value in history of over EUR 221 billion. In recent years, we have seen the growing activity of investors abroad, mainly in the European Union but also outside the European Union. I can add that last year the increase in export sales to Germany is almost 10% and we achieved the greatest export dynamics last year on the US market - 12.5%. The question asked by Mrs Joanna Fly about the government's position towards the Chinese company Huawei. Poland - of course according to our Polish law, as well as the law of the European Union, is open to Chinese investors and their contribution to the development of the economy, provided that they comply with the laws in force in Poland. The activities of any company carrying out critical infrastructure investments, including Huawei, must be carefully analysed in order to protect the interests and security of the state. The same is true, because such a process also takes place in other Member States of the European Union. Mr Marek Krzykala and Mr Ryszard Galla asked a question about the Polish-German round table. These meetings will be held in June. We will deal primarily with the issues of teaching Polish in Germany and German in Poland, the issue of the Polish house in Germany, in Bochum, as well as historical issues. Together with the German partners, we agreed that these issues would be priority issues and first discussed. We hope for constructive dialogue in this area. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz asked about the Eastern Partnership. This is indeed an important moment - the 10th anniversary of the Partnership. Together with another country, our neighbour Sweden, with which we initiated this process, we want to stimulate a discussion on this issue about reform. How can I go on? We already know that there will be a summit in Brussels with the Eastern Partnership countries. As I mentioned in my exposé, this month the Minister of Foreign Affairs Wallström will come to Warsaw. We're gonna be discussing this. We visit these countries together with foreign ministers from other countries. I myself was in January with the Foreign Ministers of the Baltic States in Ukraine, but I also plan other meetings. In the second half of the year, there may also be an opportunity during the Finnish Presidency to stimulate activity: on the one hand, the interest of European Union citizens in our partners in the East, on the other hand, it is about convincing them to reform, because this brings them closer to the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, a question about UN peacekeeping operations. Poland is indeed returning. A return to UNIFIL in Lebanon is scheduled for November this year. We're planning to start the service there, okay? 180.200 soldiers. We also have talks with Hungarians who will be in our group. In other words, after a long period of interruption, we return to UN peacekeeping operations. A very specific question concerning the division of the grey zone with Denmark. Was it beneficial, or was it unfavorable? Denmark's claim was based on a median line. It's a traditional way to draw a line. He finds strong justification in the case law of international practice. Departure from the median line shall be justified only in the case of special circumstances. In addition, the median line-based proliferation is dominant in the Baltic Sea basin, e.g. between Germany and Denmark or Denmark and Sweden. Poland has won this case of significant departure. That's 20%. our up to 80% is much better than 0 to 100, i.e. what's usually in these situations. It is thanks to negotiations conducted under the authority of the government by experts from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Many gentlemen and many Members have asked questions about what the government has done in terms of guaranteeing the rights of a million Poles in the UK. I would like to say that the rights of Poles will be fully secured also in the event of a non-contractual brexite. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, together with Prime Minister Theresa May, provided appropriate guarantees on this issue as early as December 2018. In the case of brexitu without a contract Poles will retain the right to stay, work, study, health care and benefits. There are political and legal obligations. Relevant legislation in the UK has already been prepared. It has been implemented and is run by all Polish diplomatic and consulates in the Islands an information campaign on conditions after brexita. Actions informing about the rights of Poles are coordinated by the embassy of the Republic of Poland in London. Poles will have time to regulate their status by the end of 2020. The UK Government declares that until then, identification will continue to be sufficient for entry into the UK territory. Poland has also prepared an appropriate bill protecting the rights of the British in our country. I was sorry to hear questions and comments about personal policy. What I'm trying to say is that everything isn't always 100%. appropriate. The personnel trials are ongoing. One of the messengers asked me a question, quoted me at the opening of the Diplomat Academy. I said we require our applicants and diplomats of loyalty. And I repeat: yes, we require loyalty, but loyalty to the state, not loyalty to the party. We never suggest that. The problem is that many diplomats have different affiliations, I would like to say to you, but to you represented by constitutionally elected authorities. To the President, to the Prime Minister, to the Government, to the Foreign Minister. You can't say... I do not want to appeal to the debate that has already been mentioned on several occasions, who has appointed the President of the European Council. I represent the government and the same goes for diplomats. If you are wondering if there is a problem, please take a look at the conference of ambassadors, at the speeches on Polish foreign policy. Do you see loyalty to this government, which is at this point in time, or the Platform Government, or the Government of Law and Justice, and before that other governments? The diplomat is to work for every government, and we require it. Unfortunately, this is not common. Some think it's just for the government they like. And if there's a change of government, like now, three years ago, loyalty doesn't apply anymore. We require young adepts to be loyal to the state - I repeat - as we require civil servants. Political neutrality means not a lack of political views, but a lack of political conviction [[♪ The bell ♪]] At official work. It's important. High Izbo! Mrs. Marshal! I wouldn't want to prolong my speech. If your marshal agrees, I'd like to present the rest of the questions in writing. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u169	Thank you very much, Minister. A request for rejection was made in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u170	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The case of the Polish Consul in Oslo, Mr Sławomir Kowalski, who was very involved in helping Poles living in Norway, especially in matters concerning Jugendamt, was a big echo. Whether the Ministry of Foreign Affairs provides for the support of Polish diplomatic institutions, e.g. in Norway, Great Britain, Germany, and hire psychologists so much needed by our fellow countrymen in matters concerning the reception of children by the institutions there?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u171	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is extremely glad that Poland's position in the United Nations has been steadily increasing in the last three years. In addition to the election to the United Nations Security Council and the activities within this body, culminating in the monthly Presidency in May. Poland has recently been selected among others. to the International Group on Freedom of Religion and Confession and to the Committee on UNESCO's intangible heritage. Congratulations on the effectiveness of Polish diplomacy, I would like to ask about the activities carried out by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in connection with Poland's accession to the Human Rights Council for a term of office covering the years 2020 to 2022.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u172	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! International cooperation of the Sejm is implemented, among others. through 11 permanent parliamentary delegations and 84 bilateral groups. Despite further requests and monits, it has not yet been created. Polish-Russian Parliamentary Group. Questions: Why, for what reasons is there no consent to the establishment of the Polish-Russian Parliamentary Group? What is the opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on this matter? Please respond in writing as well.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u173	Dear Minister, Please answer the following questions: Are working, bilateral or official visits to the United States of America planned in 2019? Are working meetings, bilateral meetings or visits of representatives of the state authorities in Israel planned in 2019? Are working, bilateral or public authorities' visits to the People's Republic of China planned for 2019? Please respond in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u174	The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - the rules governing certain financial market operators from the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and Gibraltar in connection with their withdrawal from the European Union, - on the regulation of certain matters relating to the appearance of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community without the conclusion of an agreement referred to in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 of the Treaty on European Union, - the rules for determining the order in which Members of the European Parliament elected in the Republic of Poland are to be filled for the term of office of 2019.2024, - amending the Law on the exchange of tax information with other countries and certain other laws. The reports shall, as appropriate, be in prints 3289, 3290, 3292 and 3293. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items on the agenda listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - to regulate certain matters relating to the recognition of professional qualifications in connection with the appearance of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community without concluding the agreement referred to in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 of the Treaty on European Union, - on the amendment of the Act on the Wheels of Rural Housewives. The reports shall be printed, respectively, 3275 and 3278. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items of the agenda listened to five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I'm declaring a time-out. 5:30. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 mins 21 hours 17 min 29]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Government's draft law on the regulation of certain matters relating to the recognition of professional qualifications in connection with the appearance of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community without concluding the agreement referred to in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 of the Treaty on European Union (Prints Nos 3257 and 3275). I ask Mr Andrzej Kryj to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u175	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Government's draft law on the regulation of certain matters relating to the recognition of professional qualifications in connection with the appearance of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community without the conclusion of the agreement referred to in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 of the Treaty on European Union, print No 3257. High Izbo! The aim of the project is to regulate the situation of citizens of the Republic of Poland and citizens of the other countries of the European Union under the conditions of an ever more pronounced prospect of disagreement between the European Union and the United Kingdom, i.e. when the so-called. An agreementless brexite. This is extremely important because one of the consequences of the unconferential brexite will be the lack of recognition in the Republic of Poland, as in the whole of the European Union, of professional qualifications acquired in the United Kingdom according to the mechanisms in force in the Member States of the European Union. These qualifications will start to be treated as qualifications acquired outside the European Union. This means that their recognition will take place on the basis of separate rules, which will force those with such qualifications to carry out much more time-consuming and costly nasal procedures. In the Republic of Poland there is no system of recognition of professional qualifications acquired in third countries. The above draft law was submitted to change this situation. March 6th this year It was addressed by the Marshal of the Sejm to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth for first reading. Four legislative amendments were tabled at the committee meeting on 13 March. The purpose of the amendments tabled was to link the entry into force of the Act with the date of the actual withdrawal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community without the conclusion of the agreement referred to in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 of the Treaty on European Union. This is due to the fact that the date of 30 March 2019 may not be the actual date on which Britain leaves the European Union. As you know very well, and this is shown especially in recent days, the situation in the British Isles is extremely dynamic and it is difficult to clearly state what the nature of the brexite will be and when it will de facto occur. Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland and the resulting principle of legal certainty should be indicated by the authority which will determine the specific date of the withdrawal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union without the conclusion of an agreement. This authority will be the Minister responsible for the membership of the Republic of Poland in the European Union, who will publish such information by means of a notice in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. The Commission accepted the amendments tabled. With this in mind, on behalf of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth, I would like the High Sejm to announce the draft law submitted in print no. 3275. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u176	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Teresa Wargock, Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u177	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the draft law and the report of the committee, print No 3275. Draft law on the regulation of certain matters relating to the recognition of professional qualifications in connection with the appearance of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community without the conclusion of an agreement referred to in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 of the Treaty on European Union, aims to regulate the situation of citizens of the Republic of Poland and citizens of other countries of the European Union who have acquired professional qualifications in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, when the so-called. An unconventional brexit. Under an increasingly prominent perspective of disagreement between the European Union and the United Kingdom on 30 March 2019, that country will become a third country in relations with the European Union and will be excluded from the Union's legal order. According to the statistics of the United Kingdom Statistical Office at the end of 2017, around 1200 000 were present in the territory of the United Kingdom. citizens of the Republic of Poland. It should be noted that of this numerous group of Polish citizens there are people who have acquired professional qualifications in the United Kingdom and if - we expect - they wish to return to Poland - they will not have to apply for their recognition in such a more extended scope when they return to Poland. Therefore, this bill protects the interests of citizens. This draft law provides for the regulation of matters such as recognition of professional qualifications for the pursuit of regulated professions and the taking up or pursuit of regulated activities. The project here provides that the decisions to recognise the qualification issued before 30 March 2019 that proceedings initiated and not completed before 30 March 2019 shall not be terminated but may continue for 42 weeks and that, thirdly, within 3 years of the United Kingdom's departure from the European Union, in principle until December 2021, Poles will be able to apply for recognition of professional qualifications acquired in the United Kingdom. These proceedings will be carried out in a simplified manner under the Qualifications Recognition Act for a maximum period of 42 months. The law also regulates the provision of cross-border services by nationals of the United Kingdom and members of their families. Since the departure of the United Kingdom from the European Union, Polish authorities will not be obliged to accept declarations of intention to provide cross-border services. The third issue is related to European Professional Cards. These registrations are no longer valid on the date of departure in the Republic of Poland. Ladies and gentlemen! The bill is needed. It protects the interests of Poles when Britain leaves the European Union without agreement. It guarantees Polish citizens the recognition of professional qualifications already acquired and serves to safeguard the interests of citizens and to exercise their right to pursue their profession. The social and economic impact of these regulations should be assessed positively. The Law and Justice Club therefore supports the proposed bill with the amendments adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u178	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Anna Wasilewska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u179	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am pleased to present the position of the Civic Platform-Citizen Coalition club vis-à-vis the draft law on the regulation of certain matters relating to the recognition of professional qualifications in connection with the appearance of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community without the conclusion of the agreement referred to in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 of the Treaty on European Union, print No 3257. The draft law aims to regulate the situation of Poles and other citizens of European Union countries who have acquired professional qualifications in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, in the case of uncontractual brexit. It should now be assumed that there may be disagreement between the European Union and the United Kingdom. Then the United Kingdom will be a third country and will be excluded from the EU legal order. In this case, there will be a lack of recognition in Poland and throughout the European Union of professional qualifications acquired in the United Kingdom. According to the mechanisms in force in the Member States of the European Union, these qualifications will then be treated as qualifications acquired outside the Union. This means that they can be contractual, on the basis of separate regulations... Nostrification of rights should then be carried out. According to the data, at the end of 2017, around 1200 thousand stayed in the United Kingdom. Poles and it should be thought that many of them are qualified to perform regulated professions or regulated activities acquired in the United Kingdom. The draft law clarifies that, in the event of the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union without the conclusion of an agreement, the decisions on recognition of professional qualifications in regulated professions acquired in the United Kingdom in Poland will remain valid until the date of entry into force of the Act on recognition of professional qualifications acquired in Poland by nationals of the United Kingdom entered into force and not completed before the date of entry into force of the Act on recognition of qualifications in regulated professions will continue to be carried out on the basis of the Act on recognition of qualifications. However, they will be carried out not more than 42 months from the date of entry into force of the Act. After that, they'll be decommissioned. European Professional Cards issued to citizens of the United Kingdom on entry into Poland will expire. In view of the fact that the United Kingdom is about to withdraw from the European Union, it is important that the draft law be implemented. The Civic Platform - The Civic Coalition welcomes the proposed shape of the rules for maintaining the decision to recognise the professional qualifications of nationals of Member States. It is a help in the pursuit of the profession after returning to Poland, but also a response to the needs of Poles who reside or live in the Member States of the European Union. The Civic Platform Club - The Civic Coalition will vote in favour of the solutions presented. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u180	Thank you very much, Member. Mr. Piotr Apel, Kukiz.15. There's no envoy. Mr Krystian Jarubas made his statement in writing. Katarzyna Lubnauer, Modern Club. There isn't. Mr Sylwester Khrushch made his statement in writing. Are there Members asking questions? There isn't. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u181	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to present the position of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle in relation to the report of the committee on the Government's draft law on the regulation of certain matters relating to the recognition of professional qualifications in connection with the appearance of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community without the conclusion of the agreement referred to in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 of the Treaty on European Union. Following the appearance of the UK from the European Union, there are complications related to acquired professional qualifications. Many employees, including a very large number of Polish professionals, acquired their professional qualifications in the UK. In view of the existence of such qualifications from the European Union, these qualifications may not be considered valid within the European Union because of the recognition of the United Kingdom as a third country. In Poland, there is no system for recognising such professional qualifications acquired in third countries. This draft committee envisages introducing a system which would recognise such qualifications. In addition, the project aims to extend the recognition of professional qualifications to other relevant third countries, such as Switzerland. Therefore, as the Free and Solidarnia Circle, we see the need for changes in this area and we are in favour of the proposed project.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u182	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The project under investigation is a necessity in the light of the spectrum of UK leaving the European Community. This is an important project, because according to data from the statistical office of the United Kingdom at the end of 2017 approximately 1.02 million citizens of the Republic of Poland stayed in the territory of the United Kingdom. It should be noted that in this large group of Polish citizens there are people who have acquired professional qualifications in the United Kingdom and who, following the uncontractual exclusion of the United Kingdom from the EU legal order after returning to the Republic of Poland, will not be able to apply for recognition under the existing simplified rules. You can't leave our compatriots in a situation like this without help. The project should also fulfil one more important function. It should be an incentive for our citizens to return. For this to happen, it cannot be that the qualifications that the Pole will acquire on the islands will be treated as acquired outside the European Union. We cannot put the guilt of Poles at risk of costs and time-consuming nostrils. The Polish state is to give its citizen a helping hand. The proposed draft law provides that they will retain the power issued before 30 March 2019 to recognise professional qualifications in Poland for the pursuit of a regulated profession or for the taking up or pursuit of regulated activities acquired in the United Kingdom. They also have the power issued before 30 March 2019 to recognise in Poland the professional qualifications of citizens of the United Kingdom and members of their families acquired in one of the EU countries. The draft also provides that decisions on the recognition of the professional qualifications of the service provider issued before 30 March 2019 to which the United Kingdom citizen or a member of his family is party shall be terminated as of the date of entry into force of the Act. In accordance with the project, European Professional Cards issued to UK citizens and members of their families are valid. The government project also assumes, among other things, that citizens of Member States, including Poles, will be able to submit applications for recognition of professional qualifications acquired in the United Kingdom by 31 December 2021 at the latest. These proceedings shall be conducted under the rules laid down in the Law on the Recognition of Professional Qualifications for a period of not more than 42 months from the date of submission of the application. The exception to this regulation will be qualifications for the implementation of the so-called. sectoral professions, i.e. doctor, dentist, veterinarian, pharmacist, nurse, midwife and architect. These key assumptions are a necessity in the current situation. We as Poland should be prepared for different scenarios related to Brexit. Therefore, the PSL Club will support the proposed solutions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u183	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. After consulting the Convention of Seniors, Marshals of the Sejm decided to delete from the agenda of the current sitting of the Sejm point 26.: First reading of the government draft law amending the Law Family and Care Code and some other laws, print No 3254. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law on the rules of conduct of certain financial market entities from the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and Gibraltar in connection with the withdrawal from the European Union (prints Nos 3258 and 3289). I would very much like to ask Mr Andrzej Costowniak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u184	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased to submit a report to the Committee on Public Finance in print No. 3289 on the Government's draft law on the rules of conduct of certain financial market entities from the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and Gibraltar in connection with the withdrawal from the European Union, print No. 3258. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 6 March 2019, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Public Finances for first reading. The Public Finance Commission, following its first reading and the examination of this draft law at its meeting on 13 March 2019, asks the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. Ladies and gentlemen! Two amendments were tabled during the committee meeting, which received a recommendation from the committee. The Act is a natural consequence of leaving the European Union of Great Britain. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u185	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Noblet, Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u186	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the government's draft Print Act No. 3258 and 3289. In view of the possibility for these countries to withdraw from the European Union without the conclusion of an agreement and the absence of any other way of regulating their relations with financial institutions established in the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland and Gibraltar operating in the territory of the Republic of Poland, there is a need to introduce mechanisms at national level to protect the interests of clients of such institutions. In the case of so-called. These institutions will lose their ability to operate in Poland on the basis of a uniform European passport. This law covers only certain financial institutions from these countries, providing in this respect the necessary safeguards for the interests of Polish clients who have concluded agreements with such institutions. In the opinion of the European Commission, only minimum emergency measures should be adopted for me. b. be compatible with European Union law. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 rules for the execution of credit agreements are laid down within the meaning of the Banking Law. The provision applies to all types of loans, including mortgages and consumer loans, as well as to corporate loans. The adoption of such arrangements is important to ensure the protection of the interests of borrowers who are debtors for the credit granted. The duration of the proposed transitional period is adequate given the long-term nature of the liabilities arising from credit agreements, including in particular mortgages covered by the statutory regulation. The provisions of the Article shall apply. 4 lay down rules for the execution of payment service contracts or electronic money agreements. The solution contained in the article. 5 is intended to enable the provisions of the Settlement Finality Act to be applied in payment and securities settlement systems and the rules governing the supervision of those systems. In the event of a non-contractual withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union, insurance contracts concluded before the date of brexitu should not be performed due to the loss of the possibility of undertaking insurance activities in the territory of the Republic of Poland by establishments established in the United Kingdom. In the case of the Polish insurance market, the problem of reinsurance protection provided by British insurers was also identified. The proposed solution is also relevant for the capital requirements of insurance undertakings. It is proposed that the proposed transitional regulation should cover a period of 24 months from the date of entry into force of the Act. In order to ensure proper protection of insured persons, it would be advisable for Polish insurance companies to maintain access to the UK reinsurance system. Article 4 is replaced by the following: 8 refers to entities from the listed countries which, at 29 March 2019, will carry out brokerage activities in Poland in the form of a branch or without a branch. In addition to this article, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice has tabled an amendment concerning the continuation of existing activities on the stock exchange. Given that organised markets in the territory of the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland are in principle subject to equivalent regulatory and supervisory requirements as markets in the territory of the Member States, the amendment of the Investment Fund Statute should not require the approval of the Financial Supervision Commission. The draft law will not impose any burden on the state budget and local government units. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support this bill and request that it be referred to further proceedings. At the same time, I make two amendments to this [[♪ The bell ♪]] a draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u187	Thank you, sir. Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Bożena Szydłowska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u188	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition, a position on the Government's draft law on the rules of operation of certain financial market entities from the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and Gibraltar in connection with the withdrawal from the European Union, Seym prints Nos 3258 and 3289. In the case of a hard brixit, the operation of financial institutions established in the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland or Gibraltar operating in the territory of the Republic of Poland requires regulation. These institutions will lose their ability to operate on the basis of a single European passport. The proposed law covers the activities of these institutions and implements the necessary safeguards for the interests of Polish clients who have concluded contracts with such institutions. According to the law, a foreign bank established in the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland or Gibraltar may continue to perform credit agreements until: firstly, the expiry of those contracts; secondly, the transfer of a portfolio of loans resulting from these agreements to a national bank, a branch of a foreign bank or a credit institution authorised to carry out activities consisting in granting loans in the territory of the Republic of Poland; thirdly, obtaining authorisation to carry out activities in the territory of the Republic of Poland in the form of a branch of a foreign bank; fourthly, the establishment of a national bank in the form of a public limited company - but not more than 24 months after the date of entry into force of the law. At that time, such a bank may not: conclude new credit agreements; extend the credit agreements concluded; increase the amount of cash made available to the borrower on the basis of the credit agreement concluded; make other changes to the credit agreements that increase the risk to the bank. The Act also applies to open investment funds and specialised open investment funds, as well as insurance and reinsurance activities, and transitional periods for individual activities have been consulted with the European Union. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! My club is in favour of directing the bill to further legislative work. Finally, I would like to share my reflection. The time for this bill to be dealt with is when all of us, all of us, and especially the politicians of the ruling party, should have a red light. What can an irresponsible foreign policy combined with Euroscepticism lead to? A crowning example of the impact of such an attitude is the current situation of the UK and resulting from the ongoing Brexit process of confusion throughout the European Union. May Poland never stand on such a edge. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u189	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Piotr Apel, the Kukiz Club15. There's no envoy. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats. [[I'm here.]] I've seen your envoy. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u190	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I would like to present our position on the report of the committee on the government draft law on the rules of operation by certain financial market entities from the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and Gibraltar in connection with their appearance from the European Union. The proposed law is intended to safeguard the interests of clients of financial institutions established in the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland, i.e. in the United Kingdom, or Gibraltar and operating in Poland in the event of the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union without the conclusion of an agreement. It is extremely important because these financial actors are extremely large. Poles have their obligations, loans, insurance for their property, health. This is extremely important matter. Foreign banks established in the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland will be able to continue to execute credit agreements, including mortgage and consumer loans, as well as loans to entrepreneurs on the basis of the existing provisions that were concluded before 29 March 2019, not more than 24 months after the entry into force of the Act. This solution is important to ensure the protection of the interests of borrowers who are debtors for the credit granted, including mortgage or consumer credit, as well as from the perspective of compliance with legal certainty requirements in the area of financial services addressed to clients in the banking sector. According to the proposal, insurance companies from the United Kingdom and Gibraltar, which carried out insurance activities in Poland before the date of their non-contractual departure from the European Union, will be able to carry it out under the same conditions in order to perform insurance contracts already concluded. This solution is necessary in order to protect the interests of persons who have concluded such insurance contracts, inter alia. by ensuring the effective elimination of damage. The proposed provision will apply only to the period necessary for the performance of the contracts concluded, the transfer of the insurance portfolio to an insurance undertaking established in the European Union and which may carry out insurance activities in Poland or be authorised to carry out such activities of the transfer of the insurance portfolio. In the case of life insurance because of the long-term nature of such contracts, it is proposed that such activities may not be carried out longer than 24 months after the date of entry into force of this Law. High Izbo! It is very good that efforts have been made to prepare for the so-called scenario. a hard brexite also in financial and insurance terms. I think we all hope that we will find a solution in Europe that will minimise or postpone the effects of Britain's exit from the Union. Regardless of this, we ourselves must prepare our citizens, our consumers and our entrepreneurs for many difficulties. This project will undoubtedly serve this purpose and deserves further proceding, which is advocated by the Polish People's Party Club - the European Union of Democrats. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u191	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern Club. There is no Member. Mr Sylwester Khrushch made his statement in writing. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask another question? I'm closing the list. Please, the question is asked by Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u192	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I'd like to ask you about the information obligation. It's a good thing this solution was prepared. None of the clubs had any doubts. However, I would like to ask about this information obligation for this transitional period related to the functioning of financial institutions in Great Britain, Northern Ireland and Gibraltar in Poland. If so, how will you guarantee to the customers of these institutions that they will be informed by those entities that operate on the Polish market? I'm asking about the threat involved, among others. with the possibility of changing the terms of the loan, and thus with the possibility for these entities to borrow a new loan in the Polish institution, if they were afraid of the risk of changing the terms of the credit agreements. We cannot say that we are guaranteeing a transitional period in which new conditions will not be offered to customers, perhaps less favourable. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It seems that such an information obligation should be imposed on these entities so that each customer knows what will be during this period and what the consequences will be. In my view, this is very important. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u193	Please, Mr Michael Szczerba.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u194	Dear Marshal! Ministers! Of course, we are talking about a situation of about 6,000. British citizens in our country, but I think that all parliamentarians are primarily interested in the fate of 1 million Poles and Poles in the UK at the moment. I therefore have specific questions for your ministers. Whether the Ministry of Foreign Affairs plans to strengthen consular service against expected problems with registration, as I said, 1 million Poles in the new system of settled people, in the so-called. settlement status? The leading organization of Poles from the East European Resource Centre estimates that 20% Poles staying in the UK may have problems with this type of registration, among others. because they don't have biometric passports. There is also a rather serious interest in obtaining a new passport at the moment, [[♪ The bell ♪]] so we call for strengthening consular services in the UK, which will benefit Poles and Poles there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u195	Thank you very much. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Leszek Skiba.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u196	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for these questions. The first question concerned issues relating to this law. It is worth remembering that, first, in the law itself in the article. 2 (2) 2 it is said that a foreign bank may not conclude new credit agreements, extend concluded contracts. So here we have a clear situation with regard to new legal acts. As far as the current conditions are concerned, I do not have the opportunity to change the terms of the loans. So citizens can't be harmed. There is no legal basis for reducing to the slightest extent the rights of customers of these banks. So those banks that use this law or are covered by this law must not in any way infringe the rights, the conditions that have been adopted. As far as information obligations are concerned, we can naturally say two elements. The first is that these institutions, foreign banks, which are established in the territory of the United Kingdom, still have to comply with the law, i.e. they must provide full information about their activities in relation to Polish clients. This is a natural obligation arising from laws governing banking law. But of course there is also a second aspect, the aspect of KNF information obligations. KNF also has a duty, and fulfills it, to inform about all new developments in relation to both customers and, of course, foreign banks. So from this point of view, there are no risks to customers. Of course, there are also some limitations due to the fact that these foreign banks will not be able to be treated as banks based in a Member State of the European Union sooner or later. The second question about Brexit is the question about the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. As I understand it, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will do anything to take care of Polish citizens, and here is the full agreement with the Member that such concern for citizens is extremely important. As far as I know, the entire government, the various ministries, have worked very hard to achieve as much as possible in order to guarantee 100% that no one will be affected by the Brexit procedure. I'm sure the Foreign Office will do anything to... But it's worth asking the Minister what the reaction will be to the Brexit. It is also worth remembering that this is one of the laws that applies to brexitu. In the framework of the dialogue with the KNF and the financial markets, we have recognised that regulation of this issue is important. There will also be a separate law of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, which will regulate other issues. Therefore, this case is divided into individual additional elements. And as far as I know, maybe this Homeland Security bill will be here soon. This will be an opportunity to debate in these other aspects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u197	Thank you very much. Please, in the procedure of correcting Ms Krystyna Skowrońska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u198	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, You didn't understand, or you gave me the answer to a completely different question. I was talking about the risk of changing the terms of the contract. The point is that a client who will already be under another jurisdiction has knowledge and is aware that after twenty months of transition, he will be able to change the terms of his contract. I'm talking about the basis, like the credit agreement, among other things. It's a 100% change. The customer will have a sense - not everyone needs to know - that he has borrowed a loan from a bank that previously operated it on the basis of a Polish passport, and in this case the customer will no longer be covered. So I'm talking about this sort of thing strictly. information that the legal situation of the entity has changed, [[♪ The bell ♪]] where the client made a commitment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u199	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u200	Oh, I'd appreciate it if you'd answer in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u201	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u202	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to present the position of the Members of the Free Solidarnia Circle in the report of the Committee on Public Finances on the Government's draft law on the rules of operation by certain financial market entities from the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and Gibraltar in connection with their resignation from the European Union. Due to the presence of the United Kingdom from the European Union, there is currently a problem of a lack of regulation of relations in the field of activity by institutions and entities established in the United Kingdom, Northern Ireland and Gibraltar and carrying out activities in the territory of the Republic of Poland. There is a need for change due to the risk of such activities being destroyed by a lack of regulation. Many Polish customers have concluded contracts with entities that would have to break up in the absence of this regulation. Therefore, it is necessary to introduce a number of regulations which will allow such companies and entities to continue to operate in the territory of the Republic of Poland despite leaving the European Union by the State which they represent. This draft law, drawn up by the Commission, provides for the possibility and regulation by which Polish counterparties will not suffer. Therefore, as the Free and Solidarni Circle, we support the introduction of this bill for further procession.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u203	We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Government draft law on the regulation of certain matters in connection with the appearance of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community without the conclusion of the agreement referred to in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 of the Treaty on European Union (Prints Nos 3256 and 3290). I ask Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u204	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs met yesterday at a meeting and adopted a draft law on a government draft law on the regulation of certain matters following the appearance of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community without concluding the agreement referred to in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 of the Treaty on European Union. Ladies and gentlemen! The whole draft law was followed by a very consensual consensus between all parliamentary clubs, for which I thank you very much. During the committee's work, the committee agreed to adopt legislative amendments which were prepared by the Legislative Bureau of the Sejm as clear and necessary amendments. They were all accepted. Three substantive amendments, including by consensus, were also accepted by the whole committee. The amendments concerned the status of unemployed and members of the unemployed family and the unemployed situation at the time of receiving the benefit and labour market services and labour market instruments referred to in Article. 52. In turn, the third amendment decided that the Marshal of the voivodship is the authority competent to rule on the matters referred to in paragraph. 1. These amendments were accepted. The bill is necessary because of the situation in which we are in. The committee has also come to the need to adopt this document with great understanding. There were no abstentions or votes against in the vote on the bill, so that the committee adopted the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u205	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski to make a statement on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u206	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The purpose of the Act is to regulate the rules of residence in the territory of the Republic of Poland of citizens of the United Kingdom. These citizens of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, who are present in Poland, are probably several thousand and the Polish Government and the Polish Parliament are faced with the necessary regulations relating to access to the labour market, protection of workers' claims, posting of workers, participation in the economic trade of British foreign persons, granting temporary residence permits, permanent residence permits and driving rights, continuation of judicial executions, and also facing many other issues that need to be regulated due to the fact that, until the United Kingdom does not come out of the European Union, this is settled by European Union rules. Thus, so that in no way do the citizens of Great Britain feel that their country is leaving the European Union, and can continue to be in Poland, to work, for example. may receive sickness benefits, pensions, pensions, social security, the bill is necessary. The Polish Government and the Polish Parliament give clear evidence that we want, in friendship, to respect all the essential rights of British citizens in Poland in agreement and in agreement. I think that we all welcome the voices that flow from Britain, saying that this will is also on the British side. The Law and Justice Club therefore supports this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u207	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Marek Wójcik, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u208	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! During the committee's work, the most important amendment was introduced to this draft law, in my opinion, concerning the revision of the mechanism for the entry into force of this law. The government originally proposed the entry into force of the Law on 30 March. Today it seems completely pointless, and therefore we have actually introduced a mechanism that allows the law to enter into force when, in fact, the United Kingdom without agreement leaves the European Union. In view of this amendment, there was a need for a number of legislative amendments. These amendments have been made more than 20. However, it is indeed what you said to the President that all the clubs supported this bill, because our intention is to guarantee the British citizens residing in Poland as widely as possible. On the other hand, we also expect the government to do its utmost to ensure that such powers are also guaranteed to Polish citizens who are staying in the United Kingdom. The Civic Platform will of course support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u209	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Piotr Apel, Kukiz.15. There isn't. Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u210	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Seym! Dramatism of the situation in the British Parliament and uncertainty about the near future of functioning in the legal trade of the existing treaty provisions caused us to rise above political divisions at yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs as Polish parliamentarians and with concern to address the issue of creating such a form of legislation which, on the one hand, safeguard the interests of the citizens of the United Kingdom in our country and, on the other hand, do not have negative consequences for our compatriots living and working in the Islands. The previous provisions of the draft law in the version of the government submission in principle and the substance of the case remained unchanged. However, the substantive debate pointed to the need for the draft law to be worked out so that it could fully comply with the principles of legislative technique. This objective was served by introducing a number of legislative and regulatory amendments, thus removing editorial inconsistencies. It is also important to agree with proposals of a substantive nature that clarify the content of the current project. The Club of the Polish People's Party - the European Union of Democrats was relieved to note the results of yesterday's vote in the House of Commons of the British Parliament, which in no case means a definitive solution to the problem of brexitu, but only slightly delays this process, which thus gives the Polish side time to carefully observe the situation of the United Kingdom, and will also allow us to correct or slightly work through the existing legislation in the event of adverse developments. From a diplomatic point of view, given the principle of reciprocity, this situation allows us to hope that there will not be any sudden and unexpected deterioration of the situation of Polish citizens living in the United Kingdom, as I mentioned at the outset. Such a situation could certainly overwhelm the relationship between both our countries and our nations unnecessarily, and given the historical past, it must be said that both our nations have never been hostile or even hostile to one another. High Izbo! To sum up, the club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, taking the situation seriously and guided by the reason of the state, will vote in favour of the committee's report. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u211	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u212	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u213	The Member shall give an interview. Looks like the connection's live. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u214	Okay, I'll try not to worry. During yesterday's debate, carried out at first reading, on the draft law submitted by the Government and presented by Mrs Szczech, I expressed on behalf of the Modern Club a few doubts related to this document, the procedure of work, the provision of equivalent rights for Poles living, working and residing in the United Kingdom, but I must say that both the afternoon meeting of the Committee on Internal Affairs and Administration and the conversation with officials of the Office for Foreign Affairs or the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, and in particular the information which was sent at my request by the Minister of Szczech, have basically resolved all these doubts. I understand that we have a guarantee in the form of a government document published by Prime Minister May's office, guaranteeing that the equivalent powers will be granted to citizens of other European Union countries residing in the United Kingdom in the event of the uncontractual departure of the United Kingdom from the European Union, including Polish citizens. I understand that the late deadline for the submission of this law was that for a long time, in fact by the end of the year, it was possible to assume that if Brexit were to take place, it would be Brexit based on a certain form of contract, so that the work took place in an urgent, urgent manner, which made us discuss two weeks before the original date of entry into force, but this, I would say, was caused by objective circumstances. I must say that, on the other hand, the amendments that we discussed yesterday, especially concerning the moving date of entry into force depending on the political situation and not the rigid one: from a specific day, in view of what is happening today in London, in the British Parliament, in Westminster, the various doubts that had occurred before us have resolved. In view of the above, on behalf of the Modern Club, I would like to state that, if I believe that this is - once again - an unpleasant obligation to adopt such a law, but an obligation resulting from a situation not by the Polish Republic nor by the Government, nor by Parliament, but by the Government of Her Majesty, we will support this law together with the amendments that were adopted yesterday at the meeting of the Committee on Internal Affairs and Administration. At the same time, I would like to end by expressing my hope, regardless of the discussion we are having here, that yesterday's vote in London in Westminster rejecting the version of the brexite without any agreement gives us the chance that we will not have to use the instruments that this law creates, because either this will be based on a negotiated agreement that will give guarantees to Poles the same as to all other citizens of the European Union who are temporarily or permanently present in the United Kingdom, or, perhaps, here I express my wish and conviction, may not be addressed to this House, but I have the right to do so - the Brexite will not, in some way, come up on the islands with a solution that this politically bad for both the United Kingdom and for the European Union will not have the prospect of leaving the European Union. Thank you for explaining and for this quality of work yesterday and understanding the circumstances connected with such hasty procedures, once again I declare that we will support this law along with the amendments that were adopted yesterday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u215	Thank you, sir. Mr Sylwester Khrushch made his statement in writing. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask another question? If not, I'm closing the list. Please, Mr Marek Wójcik, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u216	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask you a question about the problem that was raised in the previous point, but the Minister has already been in the Chamber and Mr Szczerba has raised it here. He pointed out the concerns of Polish organizations regarding the need for Polish citizens to exchange passports for biometric passports in the British Isles. I wanted to ask the Minister whether you see at all that there is such concern and whether you are planning to strengthen Polish consular posts so that citizens can actually exchange these passports. Or can you reassure the High House here and, through this debate, also Polish organisations in the UK, ensure that there will simply be no problems with the need to exchange passports? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u217	Thank you very much. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Ms Renata Rzeczch to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u218	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In answer to the question asked, I would like to present two facts. As was the case today from the speaker, from the mouth of Minister Czaputowicz, the Polish government will make every effort and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has already taken action to inform Polish citizens of the future, yet uncertain, date of Britain's departure from the European Union and related activities, it is about increased service, if necessary at all, and ensuring that all our citizens are informed and served to the extent necessary to meet the needs. On the other hand, I would like to clarify two things about biometric passports. They are already in Poland, sir. There's no doubt about it. I also think that this is not justified for the time being. In relation to the whole number... Even if all Polish citizens living or currently residing in the United Kingdom wanted to exchange their passports one day, I think we would be able to issue them these passports at an appropriate time, which is entitled by administrative rules. At the same time, as I say, this is a situation that does not exist. However, which is still very important, today's draft law provides that by 31 December 2020 it will be possible to cross the border on the basis of an identity card, as is currently the case. The UK website assures us of such solutions. So I think that, for the time being, even if these concerns are taken into account, this does not raise much concern. As far as strengthening the service of Polish citizens in offices in the UK is concerned, we have not noticed at the moment - I can only present our observations here - as if it were an excessive burden, but as for details, the foreign ministry is responsible here. We're not right about this. However, I would like to stress that there is no such concern that there are problems with issuing Polish passports due to the fact that passport applications are sent, are available online and are constantly being discussed in our country and are then issued in... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u219	Thank you very much. In the correction procedure, Mr Marek Wójcik, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u220	Minister! My question was about something a little different. In my opinion, this problem in the form in which it is presented here and in which it is raised by Polish organizations in the UK will not occur. Maybe that's why it's worth trying to reassure Polish citizens. Passports with two biometric characteristics have already been issued since June 2009. Passports are important for 10 years, so it can actually be said that this group of citizens who have a passport, which is without biometric characteristics, is actually very, very small, because these older passports are about to expire. Perhaps it is a question of those who have left, who have crossed the border on the basis of an ID card, and now, during this period you are talking about, they will indeed have to make themselves a passport. This passport will, of course, be with two biometric features. However, since such doubts arise among the Polish community in the UK, it may also be worth trying to somehow try these organizations just to warn you that these concerns are simply unfounded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u221	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u222	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to present the position of the Circle of the Members of the Free and Solidarnia towards the Government's draft law on the regulation of certain matters in connection with the appearance of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community without the conclusion of the agreement referred to in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 of the Treaty on European Union. Due to the planned leaving of the European Union by the United Kingdom, there are many issues, including those concerning Poland, where changes are required and explanations are presented. In the UK there are currently a very large number of Polish workers and we are one of the most numerous national minorities there. Leaving the ranks of the European Union by the UK will cause confusion on issues also concerning Polish workers. Changes are made in relation to health insurance, employers' solvency and employment rules by agencies or allowances. This government bill presents the sensible regulations envisaged for the above issues, which we consider necessary as the Free and Solidarni Circle, and we therefore support the introduction of this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u223	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: The report of the Extraordinary Commission on the draft law on the rules for determining the order of filling seats of Members of the European Parliament elected in the Republic of Poland for the term of office of 2019 and 2024 (prints Nos 3272 and 3292). I would very much like to ask Mr Richard Bartosik to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u224	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Extraordinary Commission, I have the honour to present a draft law on the rules for determining the ranking of the seats of Members of the European Parliament elected in the Republic of Poland for the term of office of 2019. 2024. High Izbo! According to the decision of the European Council, Poland... The European Parliament in the Republic of Poland will be elected 52 Members. However, if the United Kingdom continues to remain in the European Union, the number of these Members will be 51. There is therefore a need to secure itself in the event of such a situation and on behalf of the committee, I ask the High Sejm to adopt this law. The Commission adopted the draft during its deliberations, supplementing it by amending one Article. - Art. 5a. I therefore ask the High House to adopt this draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u225	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Law and Justice will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u226	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I present my position on the draft parliamentary bill on the rules for determining the order of filling the seats of Members of the European Parliament elected in the Republic of Poland for the term of office of 2019 The draft provides for the adoption of a law on the rules for determining the order in which the mandates of Members of the European Parliament are to be filled. According to Art. 3 of the European Council Decision of 28 June 2018 establishing the composition of the European Parliament in the Republic of Poland will be elected 52 Members of the European Parliament. However, in case the United Kingdom continues to be a Member State of the Union at the beginning of the term of office of the European Parliament, the number of Members of the European Parliament elected in the Republic of Poland will be 51. The provisions of the Act of 5 January 2011 do not give rise to the determination and indication of which of the 52 elected Members of the European Parliament in the Republic of Poland would, in such a situation, not be entitled to a mandate at the beginning of their term of office. This would prevent all elected Members from taking over their mandates, and it is therefore necessary to regulate this matter by law. The Parliamentary draft law on the rules for determining the order in which Members of the European Parliament elected in the Republic of Poland will be filled in for the term of office of 2019 As far as the solution is concerned... It's an analogy to art. 386 § 6 of the electoral code determining the manner in which the vacant mandate is to be filled, where it cannot be covered by any of the candidates on the same list. In such a situation, the mandate shall include a candidate from another list of candidates of the same electoral committee who has received the highest number of votes in the elections, unless he has been given a mandate. By this provision, the legislator laid down a kind of order for candidates to include mandates, independent of the district list they applied for and independent of the method of allocating the mandates to the committee in question between its district lists. Thus, in this case, the State Election Commission will determine which of the Members of the European Parliament elected in elections will not include a mandate at the beginning of their term of office and will announce this information in the Official Journal of the Law. The project shall specify the mode in which these activities are to take place. The project has a positive social and legal impact. It does not entail a burden on the state budget or budgets of local government units and is not covered by European Union law. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Law and Justice Club will support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Big round of applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u227	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Tomasz Szymański, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u228	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In a comprehensive way, the rapporteur of the committee presented to us the principles of this draft law, which should not really raise any doubts, because it is in the interest of the Republic of Poland that we should possibly take over one of the 73 mandates which so far belong to the Euro-parliamentarians of the United Kingdom, in the event that the United Kingdom leaves the European Union. Fortunately, on 13 February the State Election Commission informed the government, made a request concerning the situation of the so-called. The 52nd mandate and the need to guarantee or regulate this next mandate for our country. And here, ladies and gentlemen, there is a problem. I know that this may be due to the time you had - and I am asking Members of the applicants - to prepare this bill. But today at the committee meeting there were some doubts about precisely these provisions: whether this project is complementary, whether it will compensate for all these assumptions from a legal point of view, so that the Polish state would feel sufficiently covered by the rules in this regard. The Legal Office of the Sejm also came to our aid, showing a problem concerning this law. That is, assuming that the 52nd Member of the European Parliament will be elected, but does not include a mandate, the basic question is what its status is. Who exactly is he? In the context of this person's status, there is a question of the incoherence of a Member's mandate to the European Parliament and the taking up of certain positions, or of certain functions which result from European legislation, but also from Polish legislation. For example, certain restrictions are derived from Article. 334 electoral code. We had such a situation that it was the Legal Office of the Sejm that wondered whether sometimes it would not be possible to apply to the Office of Sejm Analysis to ask whether it would be possible to exclude the principle of incoherence against this 52th Member. In the face of our questions, as the President remembers, no one wanted to take the opportunity to prepare an amendment regulating the status of the 52nd Member: neither the State Election Commission nor the Legislative Office of the Sejm nor the State as an applicant. That is why we believe - that is our opinion, but you too, because this problem will concern you or us as the European Coalition... [[Voice from the room: Or us.]] Or you, yes. ...we do not know who he will be referring to - that it is in the interests of all of us to develop such rules, so that we know whether or not this 52th person will be able to join these functions, to hold certain positions or not. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we will not be able to resolve this issue in the second reading, and that is why we, as the Civic Coalition, will refrain from supporting this law at this stage. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u229	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Tomasz Jaskóla, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u230	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Kukiz club15 a position on printing no. 3272 containing a draft law on the amendment of the order of filling the seats of Members of the European Parliament elected in the Republic of Poland for the term of office of 2019.2024. Of course, I will not repeat behind my previous speakers, because we agree on the content that this law had to be prepared. I just wish it was so late. The situation in the United Kingdom has been confusing for less than 5 and 6 months, but we have known for a year now that the United Kingdom, if it is to leave, is above all before the end of the old European Parliament's term of office, so that is now. But it's a good thing we're doing this. Of course, it's a good thing we're doing this, but the question is whether this is consistent with the electoral code and, above all, the constitution. In the case of a record that there's no change in the electoral order... Because as a consequence, the choice of one of these members is somehow a change, after all, we do not know when this person will be entitled to a mandate. The status of the 52nd potential representative of the Republic of Poland in the European Parliament is very interesting, because we do not really know when the United Kingdom of Great Britain or rather the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland will leave the European Union. The status of 52nd member of parliament chosen from Poland is extremely interesting for us. My previous speaker was talking about the principle of incoherence, which is the automatic extinction of a person, the mandate of a person who so far holds a mandate. It causes some complications, but as a result, we have no other choice. The interesting thing here is the matter of BAS, because he didn't tell us anything, we don't have enough time for that. The Legislative Office suggested that BAS' opinions would be useful, because this is, however, a team of advisors and professionals who would undoubtedly give a legal opinion and examine an extremely complicated structure related to legal matter, unfortunately we do not have that. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the Kukiz15 movement, so as not to hinder the potential action of Poland in the European Parliament, to which we hope to have a lot of representatives, because we are supporters of Europe of homelands and should go in to keep this Europe of homelands, advocates the process of printing and preparing Poland for this action. The latest news, however, is that in Westminster, Parliament has lost the option of re-election of the United Kingdom from the European Union, because there, as the referendum is, ladies and gentlemen, the will of the citizen is respected and not with us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u231	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Zgorzelski, the Polish People's Party, gave his statement in writing. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u232	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As the previous speakers have already said, I think that there is no political force in the Polish Sejm that does not share the view that this type of regulation is necessary, appropriate, so that I will not discuss in detail the parliamentary presentation on which we are proceeding. On the other hand, there is a question of this 52nd mandate, because the person who would possibly cover this 52nd mandate will be elected. As a result of the choice, it will unfortunately lose those functions which cannot be combined with the mandate, after the choice, but also will not be able to perform public functions. So it will be in a very uninteresting situation, because if it does not include the mandate of the European Parliament, it will already lose seats as a result of the elections and we will not be able to restore the specific status that it had and lost because of the choice. So that this is very complicated and very hurtful for the person who will eventually be elected, and will not include a mandate. Let us just hope that the UK Parliament and the British, however, will decide to leave the European Union. This is the hope for this person, who will cover the 52nd mandate, because if not, then there will be a broad understanding of perturbation for this person. Unfortunately, I believe that such circumstances should be provided for in our Act and should also be included in this submission. You are submitting this bill very late. A colleague in Kukiz15 wondered if it was in line with the constitution. Of course it's not constitutional because it's a major change. The fact is, however, that we have been put in a position of coercion. This forced situation explains the need to consider this law. I think it wouldn't be such a great loss if the bill were passed, not at this, but at the next session of the Sejm. I believe that the Members of the applicant should lean on what we are talking about and take into account the transitional period, i.e. the status of the person who has been elected to Parliament, but has not yet taken up the mandate. This is essential so that we can talk about correct legislation on this matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u233	No one asked me to ask you a question. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u234	High Seym! Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I will present my position on the draft parliamentary bill on the rules for determining the order of filling the seats of Members of the European Parliament elected in the Republic of Poland for the term of office of 2019. 2024. The elections to the European Parliament will decide on the future of Poland. Only a strong representation taking care of our interests can guarantee the proper use of European funds. Turning to the details of the project, it can be concluded that the above amendment is due to an uncertain political situation in the UK. Brexit, for which most British people have voted, has not yet been given the right legal framework. After the loud announcements of leaving the European Union, problems arose for which the English society was not prepared. The functioning of the EU base, i.e. the movement of goods, services and citizens, is uncertain. What is related to this is that two months before the elections to the European Parliament it is not known whether the UK will hold elections, whether it will indicate its representation in the EU or not. This proposal sets out the number of mandates for Poland in the next term of the European Parliament, the question being whether our representation will be 51 or 52 deputies. I consider the project to be technical, setting out the conditions for the last mandate to Parliament for our country. The PSL-UED Club will vote in favour of the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u235	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and the Law on Measurements (Prints No. 2503 and 3249). I would very much like to ask Mr Wiesław Janczyk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u236	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I have the honour to present the report provided to you in print no.3249 on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Taxation on Goods and Services and the Law on Measurements, print No. 2503. The Commission introduced a number of amendments to the draft law on value added tax and the Law on measures. It presented a report resulting from its work. The most significant changes made to this government submission concern Article. 1 of the proposed novel. They clarify the way in which the concession granted by the taxpayer for the purchase of the cash register is cleared. In addition, due to the delay in the entry into force of the proposed law in Article. The amendments to the other deadlines set out in the draft provisions have been consistently clarified, 1, 8 and 9. In addition, the deadlines for the possible use of old-type cash registers in the various industries were specified in detail. An article has been introduced. 8a, which makes it possible to maintain the decisions adopted by the President of the General Office of Measures in the period prior to the entry into force of the Act. The absence of such an amendment due to the delay in the entry into force of the Act would have a negative impact on the implementation of online registers. A number of clarifications have been introduced, which have benefited the applicants' representatives and received their favourable opinion. I thank all the members of the Committee on Public Finance for their work on this project and ask the High House to adopt the report. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u237	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mr Wiesław Janczyk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u238	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the club Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the Committee on Public Finances concerning the draft in print No. 2503 on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Taxation on Goods and Services and the Law on Measurements with draft implementing acts and on printing No. 3249, the report, at second reading of the document in the High House. This is, as we know, a government project. It provides for amendments to the Goods and Services Tax Act of 11 March 2004 and to the Law on Measurements of 11 May 2001. The project is a proposal to introduce fiscal cash registers that record data and transmit them to the central electronic system, so-called. online cash register. The Deputy Minister of Finance, the head of the National Tax Administration, will maintain a central repository of cash registers to which all data from transactions made using them will be entered at the place of sale. Old-type cash registers - there are now 2 million 100 thousand, of which 1 million. 600,000. active - they can continue to be used for several years until authorisation to use them expires, with the exception of economic activities in sectors which are particularly vulnerable to irregularities in the records. Industry, which will first be forced to make this exchange, are sectors such as tyre, fuel and car repair. The Law and Justice Club supports the draft, together with the amendments that were made during the work of the Committee on Public Finance and the Permanent Sub-Committee on the monitoring of tax systems, which were just discussed in the report in this House. We believe that regulation will make a significant contribution to reducing the grey economy in the area of taxation, or actually avoiding paying it. High Seym! Mrs. Marshal! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I would like to pass on a few further amendments to clarify this document and ask that they be examined by the Public Finance Commission. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u239	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Zbigniew Konwiński, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u240	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The law that we are dealing with today is one of those that the government rightly calls sealing laws of the VAT system. In the explanatory memorandum, the government estimates that this will give revenue to the state budget, the impact on public finances by 2028 in the amount of approx. PLN 10 700 million. The Act was originally intended to enter into force on 1 October 2018. Later in the report of the subcommittee we had the date of 1 March 2019 and already in the final report of the Committee on Public Finance it is 1 May 2019. It was started in 2017. On 17 September 2017, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs issued a resolution on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Ministry of I'm sure the work lasted early. also in the finance department itself, such as intra-ministerial arrangements. I am talking about this because today, in the course of many analyses, which present today on issues related to the VAT gap, evaluate the past, evaluate their predecessors. There is often a charge that some solutions have been put in place within 1.5 years and that it has been a terrible amount of time that it has cost public finances a lot, that a terrible amount of the state budget has been lost by such omissions and such a long job. But here we are dealing with just such a classic example. If, after the October elections, the political option that is against the State and which applies the same criteria that you apply to your predecessors, assessing those works, such as reversed VAT or reversed VAT on electronics, should be set up and those responsible for this law should have problems. It is so often that the legislative process continues, that there is consultation, that we know more and more about the solutions we are introducing, and this nuance makes work a little longer. However, here we can see that it took nearly two years to prepare this law, when, for example, during the work of the VAT committee, there are allegations that something lasted 1.5 years and that it was a very long time, for, you write notices even to the prosecutor's office, you threaten the prosecutor and the problems identified for it. Since you assumed that the positive effects on public finances would be PLN 10 700 million, but in this first version, according to which this law was to enter into force on 1 October 2018, I would like to ask a question. I will not be at the next part of the debate, but I will, of course, read it from the transcript. Do you have it counted - and you certainly have - how many hundreds of millions less will go to the state budget from what you estimated, because this law comes into force later than it was originally supposed to? I propose one amendment to this law, which, to a greater extent, reimburses the purchase of fiscal cash registers, online cash registers, because to a large extent the costs of this solution, which you propose, are shifted towards entrepreneurs. We appreciate this solution as one of the solutions sealing the VAT system, and we support it by proposing an amendment to it. We are waiting all the time for the Central Register of Invoices, because they were quite decisive announcements almost 2 years ago, that it will soon, if it can reduce the VAT gap, that it can increase the VAT revenue by 20% or even by 1/3 of the gap. These are statements by representatives of the current management of the finance department. And it's been over three years. So we are also waiting for solutions for the creation of the Central Register of Invoices as one of the activities that can also seal the VAT system, because it is a continuous process, it will never close. I remember that for many years there was a discussion in Poland about whether the obligation to apply fiscal cash registers was to include doctors, lawyers, taxi drivers. Today's a long time behind us. Others are the challenges of that time, others were the challenges of previous years. So it is worth doing this all the time and taking due care to legislative procedures. I hope that, paradoxically, the work on this law lasted almost 2 years, too, maybe there will be some reflection in you and maybe a bit of a cooler of the urges of some parliamentarians, so-called. In fact, they are writing an indictment for the state, because here we have a classic example of these omissions, using your language and your logic from the VAT commission, which will make the state's budget probably less than a few hundred million zlotys. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u241	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u242	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the committee on the governmental bill amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and the Law on Measurements, Print No. 2503 and 3249. The draft, as presented by the rapporteur of the committee, was the subject of an analysis carried out by both the Permanent Sub-Committee for the monitoring of the tax system and by the Public Finance Commission. A number of legislative, clarification and substantive changes have been made, including an extension of the date of entry into force so that it is realistic - it will be 1 May 2019. In the VAT Act, the project introduces regulations on the application by taxable persons of registering registers, so-called. online cash register. In addition to memory records, cash registers will provide automated, continuous and direct information to the IT system run by the head of the National Tax Administration. This system will collect and collect data from registering offices for analytical and control purposes. We estimate that the introduction of online cash registers is the first stage that my previous speaker spoke about when it comes to the introduction of the Central Register of Invoices, which is necessary in the VAT sealing system. The installation of online cash registers will result in automatic registration in the Central Repository of Cash registers without the obligation of the taxpayer to report. In the absence of communication with the central repository and inability to transmit the data on a continuous basis, the taxable person will be able to keep a full register at the register and, after obtaining the approval of the chief of the tax office, will be required to forward the data at intervals. Cash registers which are used may be used provided that they are subject to confirmation by the President of the General Office of Measurements. The project provides for a partial reimbursement of the purchase costs of the cash register and details the rules on its settlement. According to the project, the refund covers 90% purchase prices, without tax, but it is not more than 700 PLN. Using both these meters simultaneously according to the government, the online registering money will cost about 800 PLN, which is obviously not true. The percentage should either be reduced to 40% or 50% And don't fool people that it's gonna be 90%. or increase the maximum amount of refund. We must remember that buying money is not the only expense of the entrepreneur. The cost of running will include maintenance costs, data transmission costs, as well as regular technical reviews of the necessary equipment and cash register itself. Therefore, on behalf of the club, I will submit an amendment increasing the amount of the refund at a rate of up to 90% of the purchase price, but not more than PLN 1500. Here I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Minister of Finance may, by means of a regulation, exempt certain groups of taxpayers from the obligation to keep sales records using electronic or paper copies. Taxpayers may keep sales records using registers with electronic or paper copies within specified time limits. First of all, there will be the exchange of cash in the so-called. sensitive industries, and later - in others. In conclusion, we believe that the implementation of this bill fits as much as possible into the issue of sealing the tax system, and the introduction of the Central Register of Invoices by the government would have been the implementation of the statutory arrangements four years ago, i.e. 2015. Nevertheless, we believe that it is necessary to increase the support for entrepreneurs one-off - in more money than the draft law provides for. Current costs related to the operation of cash registers [[♪ The bell ♪]] On-line will remain on the side of entrepreneurs. Marshal, I'm making an adjustment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u243	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u244	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am pleased to present my position on the draft law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and the Law on Measurements. The proposed bill introduces a new type of registering cash registers: registering cash registers, which will transmit data in real time, so online registering cash registers. The obligation to hold a register shall apply to taxable persons who sell to natural persons not engaged in business activities and to individual farmers, in other words, all those who sell goods and provide services to non-business operators. It is therefore important that the grey zone, which could possibly be produced in the case of such undertakings, should be as small as possible. Certainly, the introduction of such registers will lead to the sealing of the tax system, the collection system for goods and services and will provide additional sources of supply to the state budget. However, it is important that certain rules that seal the tax system should be introduced in a balanced way, with the interests of businesses also in mind. It cannot be that we introduce additional burdens related to sealing systems, and the costs of these burdens are borne only by Polish entrepreneurs - in this case small and medium-sized and even micro-entrepreneurs, because in a large part they will be small shops, in future retail, also small service points. Therefore, it is important for the Ministry of Finance to prepare such changes, which will cover entrepreneurs by reducing the costs associated with the introduction of online registering banks. Please note that the entities concerned, the taxpayers mostly already have registering funds. The cost of these funds has already been borne by them once. Now the state is forcing them to introduce another technical solution, another model of registering money, which unfortunately is very expensive or more expensive than those that are currently being used. Therefore, in the assessment of the members of the club Modern is not enough to provide relief by covering 90% purchase costs, but not exceeding PLN 700. Please note that the average cost of purchasing one online registerer varies, of course depending on the model and type, from the amount of PLN 1300 to the amount of PLN 1600 or even more. Therefore, we believe that the concession for acquiring such a registering bank should amount to at least 90% of the average value of the registering bank. So if the average is about 1,500 zlotys, that's 90%. That's 1,300 zlotys. Therefore, as the Modern Posel Club, we bring this type of amendment to the Act, indicating that the relief should be no more than 90% net purchase price but not more than PLN 1300. Taking into account the impact assessment that is attached to this law, this will certainly not be the amount ruining the state budget, and this will be a clear relief for the introduction of these cash registers, especially for the small economic operators on which this obligation will be imposed. So that the modern club will support this statutory submission while at the same time submitting [[♪ The bell ♪]] amendment to this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u245	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Blazej Parda, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u246	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is indeed an important law, but the truth is that the State cannot impose responsibility for modernising IT systems on entrepreneurs, whether they are small or large entrepreneurs. Thanks to these solutions, online cash registers, in fact the only advantage will be, first of all, the Treasury in the form of additional influences, because it will certainly also reduce the gray area, which is the most positive phenomenon. But because there are additional benefits for the State Treasury, why in any way burden entrepreneurs with this? We assume that if we are already introducing and modernising IT systems, then it is worth giving you a 100% refund of the costs of the cash register. Cashiers can - if they can, I don't know - be under some particular, additional supervision Or maybe you should own them. The entrepreneur does not want to participate in this and bear additional costs just because a new law is being introduced. And so it is when it comes to data transmission. I don't see any reason for an entrepreneur to worry about whether he's gonna have access or not. One's got the Internet on his phone, the other one's not. This should be the role of the State as a service provider, i.e. who provides these services, services that will give the State immediate access to data. So it pays off again. The cost of an additional Internet service for the entrepreneur, because it may be so, will be in the order of tens of PLN per month - 40, 50, 60, depending on the service provider. For you, that would be a small cost. I don't know, the issue of a SIM card might be a zloty, and the cost of data transmission would be really a few pennies. The entrepreneur doesn't have the option, he doesn't have the tools. The State, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Digitalization, ma. There's also a program running. From what I remember, the Ministry of Digitalization has been running a free Internet sharing program for many years, probably up to a speed of 1 MB. So it might be worth to plug this solution into this program, so that whoever has to transfer company data, turnover data, on an ongoing basis, can use services that already exist, but so that it is offered to him directly by officials from the Ministry of Finance, prepared in some reasonable package, so that they do not leave entrepreneurs alone again - you have to do so because we tell you. We're supposed to work together, we're supposed to be partners with entrepreneurs, because they actually pay taxes, from which the whole state apparatus is kept. So that I would really like this refund of the cash register to be 100 percent so that the transmission of data and costs will be dealt with above all, and in fact only by the state apparatus. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u247	Thank you very much, sir. Who among you and your fellow Members would like to subscribe to the question? If nobody, I'm closing the list. And please, Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u248	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! An on-line cash register project involves the creation of an extensive IT system that is vulnerable to faults and failures. Running such a nationwide system will result in huge overload of servers. Will its operation be thoroughly tested? This is important for Polish entrepreneurs who may suffer the negative consequences of possible shortcomings, but also for consumers, for whom various failures may result in the inability to make purchases. It is worth considering how sales can take place, for example. at the time of power failure when there is no possibility of using the online cash register. Given the problems I have indicated, I would like to ask if the online cash system will be properly thought out and secured. [[♪ The bell ♪]] from the technical side. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u249	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u250	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This is another reform introduced by the PiS government, actually at the expense of entrepreneurs. It is so in certain sectors covered by the legislation on the faster introduction of fiscal cash registers that the trader, if even today he has just purchased fiscal cash on the date indicated in the invoice, e.g. A hairdresser or a beautician, he's gonna have to replace that money. You assumed he'd be able to get a 90% refund. the costs incurred in connection with the exchange of cash, but we know that, in fact, the limitation to PLN 700 of the maximum refund makes it impossible for entrepreneurs to actually receive this reimbursement with such a large share of the State. Therefore, this will be at their cost, as will the costs of starting the connection and maintaining the connection to transmit data. Can the Ministry actually take responsibility, also financially, for this reform on its own and increase this amount to PLN 1300, 1500?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u251	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u252	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Two questions. Well, there is a matter of delegation from the Minister of Finance. As regards one of the delegations, it is indicated that, in certain cases, the Minister may benefit from the regulation of an amount higher for the acquisition of registering banks. In what cases? You are pointing out that this is only related to the cost of acquiring the cashiers. This is, I think, just a blank reference. Such a delegation should not be included in the bill at all. If this is the case, it should be clarified. It's one thing. Second thing. As part of your statutory delegations, you indicate the possibility of deferring the deadline for the introduction of registering banks due to the possibility of incomplete synchronization of data transmission to the Central Repository of Kas. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please tell us how this system is prepared, whether it is prepared, whether the deadlines for which you impose an obligation on taxpayers to hold cash will actually be respected by the tax authorities and whether you will be able to analyse the data sent by the registering banks. Wouldn't it just be art for art? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u253	Thank you very much. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Minister Filip Świtała, please. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u254	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In general, thank you very much for supporting this important law, which will actually contribute to the sealing of the tax system. This is such a completion of the seal in the sense that our calculations show that most of the VAT resources that are missing from the state register have so far come from extortion. We addressed this problem first. In the second place, we address the problem of this eternal question, which appears often, perhaps sometimes you are witnessing it or even addressed: Do you need a receipt or invoice? Such a question from the service provider or even the seller can sometimes be heard. This online cash system is designed to close this system from this side. I'm not explaining this to you because you don't know it, just to explain what our hierarchy of goals was when we sealed the system that we've done so far. I'm gonna come to your questions. Małgorzata Płępek's first question concerned the IT system, failure and lack of electricity. I will admit that no electronic system, including today's fiscal cash registers, is immune to a lack of electricity. If the power runs out, it just won't be possible to sell. This is the problem of the current system. I'm very sorry about that, but unfortunately, we can't... I can do a lot, but not everything. On the other hand, as regards whether the system will be well secured from the technical side, it will, of course, be well protected from the technical side. We're running tests on this system. Work on this system is even underway at the moment. When it comes to another condition that this system may be exposed to, it is not so much a lack of electricity, but e.g. lack of access to the Internet network. The power is there, the money works, and we can't transfer the data. Here we foresee a solution that this cash register will cache the data during the sale, they will be secured. The moment this Internet access is available, they will be sent. So that such a failure should not cause the sale to be impossible. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: But there is no power anymore.]] The lack of power, like I said, is always the problem. Even today is a problem with power outage. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: No, because money has its own batteries.]] If technical solutions such as your own batteries are foreseen, neither will they. You say the money has its own batteries... [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: But today there is a problem because there is still a transmission.]] I told you, in case of transmission, it's settled. I'm sorry, I've explained the issue of transmission. There's a buffer that will collect data. He'll send it when he has access to the Internet, which is actually going to be like today. The next question is Mrs Paulina Hennig's question about costs, about this limitation to 700 PLN. This relates to the question of Mr Mirosław Pampuch. In fact, we have foreseen in the regulation the possibility of raising this amount. That's my answer. If we see that there is really a need to increase this amount, we will consider it and perhaps raise that amount. But what we want to avoid, what we wanted to avoid by writing these rules, is that we do not become a slave to the amount or the percentage that we will put into this refund, so that we do not put 90% without a limit, i.e. only 90% It's just the market's gonna start producing expensive cash. The point is to find some balance, but to give this signal that you have to negotiate the price of the money to give this signal so that there is competition in this market, so that it is not such a giving carte blanche to the market in the case of determining these prices. On the other hand, if we see that such a need exists, we will consider it. And I think that basically exhausts the answer to the cost question. As the system is prepared, will there be an analysis. Yes, there will be an analysis of the data that we will receive. This system is designed in such a way as to facilitate the National Tax Administration's actual verification of almost in real time what is happening with the seller. It will be a very disciplined tool, because no seller will be able to determine whether at a given moment there is someone who is watching the sales going on at its specific point. What's more, we'll prepare an algorithmic analysis that will pick up an anomaly. So that in the case of a dishonest, non-true turnover of the seller, this system will significantly increase the risk that this will be detected. As we do this system, we do it just to capture such situations as much as possible and to detect, say, anomalies and to take appropriate action against them. [[Is the Ministry ready?]] Yes, I confirm we're preparing for this. I mean. at the moment, work is being done to make sure that the system adopts these data and that we can analyze and algorithmize them. I think that after a few years you have enough trust that you can see that when we send text messages that we collect JPKs, we don't just collect them, we just do the right thing. When we introduced STIR, it's not just for him to exist, it's because we're doing the right thing. And these adequate actions plus increasing the risk of fraudsters' actions lead to an increase in VAT revenue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u255	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present... Oh, excuse me, sir. I didn't notice. Here you go, rapporteur. Mr Wiesław Janczyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u256	Thank you kindly. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! As rapporteur for the Parliamentary Committee on Public Finance, which has worked for hours on this project, but also as chairman of the Permanent Sub-Committee on the monitoring of the tax system, I would like to thank all those who have carefully read these provisions of the draft Government's submission, made observations and made a number of comments to these statements, expressed critical opinions. I am pleased that today, here, in this reading, two elements have been clarified, which may not have sounded sufficiently during the committee's work and are very important. It is about this paradox, whether, in fact, in the absence of power, the data will be recorded or transmitted. This was one of the first, or perhaps the only question I asked on this matter to Minister Świtale. Indeed, this data will then be collected in this device, and it was still discussed in the Chamber at the moment. As soon as there is an opportunity to obtain a expensive Internet connection, they will be sent immediately. This is quite simple with today's ICT systems. And the second aspect that has never been mentioned before, but today the Minister has made it clear. However, it is a question of increased pressure on people performing fraud, which means that economic transactions are not visible on the fiscal cash register, through the possibility of online control. In fact, the seller will never know whether he is subject to such control or not. I would like to say that Poland will join a group of very few countries that will have such a system and this is a bold action. I would like to refer very briefly to such a digression, which repeated in the discussion about the necessity of introducing such devices on the Polish market. It appeared in the mouth of Mr Zbigniew Konwiński, who was manifesting from this stand, paying attention to the effects of putting aside for at least a few months or even 1 year of proceedings over such a law. He asked for the calculation of the financial consequences and reduced each situation to this one, using a reference to the serious Sejm committees of inquiry, for example to the VAT committee. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I think you need to know the measure. There are different tools and there are different costs of using these tools. A balance between the objective and the costs of achieving this goal is something that is the most difficult in the finance department, which, I believe, is a very substantive resort whose personal resources are people who really know the laws, tax laws in many dimensions, on various taxes. All this time it is about this sense, where this balance occurs, when it is worth introducing some regulation, which - we also had voices here - will have its effect in the portfolios of entrepreneurs who will have to have this infrastructure - although subsidised, but nevertheless - effectively put in their companies. I think it's absolutely illegal to say that whatever you do will be wrong if you do it a week too late, one day too late, or a year too late. And in this particular case, if a committee were set up -- which was shyly announced here by a representative of the opposition club -- in X years' time, I don't want to say when, because I don't know, when the roles in Parliament will turn around, which in democracy is an event in some horizon, medium or long, it's always not clear whether such a committee would start its work by determining whether the fittings for this type of regulation have not yet arisen before the rule of law and justice. Therefore, Minister, the question of what are the losses of not introducing this type of device should be extended for further periods. What if this device had been introduced eight years ago? What if they were introduced 10 years ago? One at a time. [[With every solution, it is.]] Well, that's what I'm saying. I will not refer here to the European Commission's guidelines on sealing the VAT system, because Poland introduced partial solutions during the Platform and the Polish People's Party government and with a really long delay. I don't want to bid here, that's what people are properly attached to. Today, in front of the public, the whole process is discussed, objective. Very well, because our citizens are given reliable information about mistakes and omissions, but also about the benefits of courageous action. I would ask us not to take the courage of anybody in such action. This action requires great determination and very professional tax knowledge, which is also derived from people who are entrepreneurs, also from tax advisers, from all those who are on the other side of the system. We must not, in a public debate, put on one side the public section and the role of Minister of Finance, his role as tax collector and oppose this interest of citizens. Because the finance minister doesn't take the money for himself. It can be said that it is really a weak money manager, because after money comes mainly to ministers from other springs, and the finance minister provides them with the right income, to their budgets and they are really the providers of money for defence, security, infrastructure, education or health protection. So this is where you have to make this observation. I think there's one more thing to say here. If today entrepreneurs face the need to invest in the purchase of this infrastructure, let us not forget that at the end of this process, perhaps in a few years, this money will return to them, because this is the method for us to reduce taxes in Poland, this is the method that leads us to the fact that we will really reduce these taxes, which everyone expects. However, it is also a question of equalising the chances of those who want to conduct business honestly and those who did not do so with the intention. Each action by the Minister of Finance in this area translates into benefits for these weakest economic players. I firmly believe that and that is why I think that to this regulation, which seems very avant-garde today - I am not afraid to say so - very modern, our citizens, our entrepreneurs will get used to it and that it will be something standard, normal, and will benefit everyone, especially the public finance sector, and then those to whom it distributes its income. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u257	Thank you very much. Since during the second reading... [[I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.]] Here you are, Mrs Remembrance.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u258	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr President, rapporteur for the Commission, What I'm trying to say is that a little too much theory is simply poured out of this podium because, in fact, this bill that we're debating today is four years late. In 2015, we adopted the law on the introduction of online cash registers and the Central Register of Invoices, and that is obvious. And what Mr Konwiński said... Indeed, such allegations are also raised before the committee of inquiry, for example. The reverse VAT went a year later. Ladies and gentlemen! You can't generalize, you can't say that it was really a scam and there was an extension of deadlines, and now it's all okay. It's just not true. Let's wait for the committee of inquiry's report and then we'll talk about whether society is being cheated or whether it's being told the truth. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u259	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the exchange of tax information with other countries and certain other laws (Prints Nos 3208 and 3293). I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u260	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to present a report, print no. 3293, from yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, during which a government draft law amending the Act on the exchange of tax information with other countries and some other laws, print No. 3208 was considered. The Commission has examined the various articles and amendments to these articles. During the process, a number of legislative and ordering amendments were tabled. One amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. The amendment concerned the article. 2, the following point 5 is inserted: Article. The words "except for the information referred to in Article' in paragraph 1 (1) shall be deleted. 82 § 2. The Commission adopted this draft law together with the amendment. On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I recommend that the High House adopt this draft Print Act No 3293. Thank you very much. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u261	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Maria Zuba, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u262	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Member's report was brief and was really the final result of the discussion during the committee's work on this draft law. Nevertheless, it is very important for us to be aware that this law is intended to actually implement the provisions of the 2014 Directive. In total, the provisions of this Directive should have been introduced much earlier, but have not been introduced. It was only the Government of Law and Justice that introduced them in 2017. By introducing the provisions of this directive into Polish law, the efforts were made to reduce the burden imposed on entrepreneurs, but the purpose of the control carried out by the European Commission not only in our country but also in all countries was to assess what standard was applied in the legislative process concerning the transfer of footnotes from the directive to the Polish law and to state legislation. The Commission recommended a number of amendments. The revision we are working on today is the answer to this recommendation. We're bringing her in. I am talking about this because there were repeated opinions in the discussion, at first reading in the plenary room, as well as during the committee work, because we are updating because these regulations were introduced into Polish law quickly. I must point out that this is not the case. These rules should be introduced even more quickly, but this is not what our predecessors have done, and therefore today they should not have the right to comment on the way in which the directive is being transferred to the Polish legal order. Through the changes that we are making today, we are really trying to respond accurately to the recommendations that the government has received. I think that these recommendations, although it must be acknowledged that they impose additional obligations on entrepreneurs, financial institutions, give hope that this system will be consistent with the systems used in other countries and that it will be consistent with the provisions of the Directive in its entirety. The discussion in committee largely concerned the creation of lists for which financial institutions are currently required. Nevertheless, there is a need to mention the recording institutions. This problem has been resolved to the end and I think that none of the people who participated in the committee meeting is in doubt. Moreover, here in this Chamber at first reading, the Minister explained quite thoroughly the meaning of these letters and why they arise, why entrepreneurs will have to make some statements for the second time. It's because of security, which is a requirement. I think this will result in the future, when this system is already in place in its entirety, and all this will be implemented efficiently and reliably, and this will result in, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that safety in this area of operation will be optimal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u263	Thank you very much, Member. And I invite Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u264	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! After listening to these comments, I think I was in another discussion, but maybe in a moment. I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - Civic Coalition on the government draft law amending the Act on the exchange of tax information with other countries and certain other laws, prints Nos 3208 and 3293. The aim of the project is to eliminate doubts about the application of the legislative arrangements originally adopted for the implementation of directives - not one directive, and the other is the 2016 directive, Mrs. I am talking about the 2014 and 2016 directives on the exchange of tax information. During my first reading, I raised many questions of great doubt and concern. During the work on the project in the Committee on Public Finance, much attention was paid to the regulations contained in the article. 6 projects which have significant implications for financial institutions. I really believed that something good would come out of this discussion. In the end, however, the government did not agree to eliminate these reservations and even to correct the errors by hiding itself from the need to rethink the matter. Today we were going to find out what resulted from this reflection. The submission requires additional verification of financial accounts opened between 1 January 2016 and 30 April 2017. Reporting financial institutions will be required to request a tax residence statement from their clients on the opening date of the account, and in a very short period until 30 June 2019. Practically, given the time of legislation, that means 2.5 months. The financial institutions stress that this is not feasible as this affects more than 6 million customers and takes a long time. In addition, the project is inconsistent internally, because another provision of this project, which enters into force six months after the date of publication, introduces the obligation to apply the criminal clause in the submission of tax residence statements. This will cause complex historical statements to be flawed because they will not contain the required clause, and this, in turn, the required one, will enter into force at a different time. This may result in the need to re-apply to customers with a request for a declaration containing a penalty clause. High Seym! We have not properly implemented these two directives of the Council of the European Union once. And just wait when we're called back to remedy the shortcomings in the rules set out at this meeting. Therefore, on behalf of the Civic Platform-Citizen Coalition Club, I submit an amendment which extends the deadline for asking customers to make a statement about the tax residence in such a way that all statements contain a penalty clause, and I ask them to accept this amendment. In addition, customer responsibilities, especially those of a historical nature, may result in a significant increase in the number of complaints, affect the risk of losing confidence in financial institutions. In many cases, there may even be a lack of response from customers to such requests, and we are here still giving them a request to make such a statement again. And yet I want to emphasise - it did not sound at all, and it is a pity - very vague writings in this project. During the work in committee, the Members and the Legislative Bureau drew attention to the language of the translation of directives adopted by the Act, which has nothing to do with correct Polish or legal language. The personalisation of legal persons of the type of financial institution knows or the financial institution has reason to believe. It is a pity that the Ministry of Finance - as a result of the Minister's statement, they would think that it might be necessary to listen, because it actually raises doubts - unfortunately it did not ultimately divide the voice of the parliamentarians in this matter. In general, I have noticed extraordinary stubbornness with even obvious regulations in this project, which is why I am very surprised at what the Minister said and what we have in the Chamber today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u265	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u266	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to present my position on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club - the European Union of Democrats against the report of the committee on the government bill amending the law on the exchange of tax information with other countries and some other laws. These are printers 3208, the original one, and 3293. I'm going to say that I didn't expect such a discussion today and just to bounce the ball, whose fault it is, because for 3 years we've been saying that the law here is being prepared carelessly, quickly, without consulting. There's no time for practically nothing. Every remark from the opposition is taken as malice, not really a substantive contribution to the creation of law. We all know - at first reading we spoke about this - that the law should be introduced, because it generally eliminates all these understatements, ambiguous interpretations. It complements the bill that has been adopted. Mrs Zuby, and this is basic, I am talking to Mrs Zuby... On 9 March 2017, we adopted a law on the exchange of tax information with other countries and a number of these changes, which are contained in today's draft, concern that law. This has nothing to do with the previous period. As far as directives are concerned, there is one of them from 2014 - 9 December 2014, the end of 2014, and the second directive, 2016/881, is from 25 May 2016. It is logical that the Act was adopted by us in March 2017. But here we are based not only on these directives, but also on our law, which was adopted on 1 March 2018, on anti-money laundering and terrorist financing. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm talking to the ruling party and the government. Saying that you had time for eight years, if those dates confirmed that it was your duty... And we are amending the basic act of 2017. And none of us have any objections to this kind of law that we don't need to introduce. She needs to be introduced, but don't take notes in such a malicious way that I would say. And pointing out wrong that it was the predecessors who were going to do it. In addition to this basic law, we also make changes to others. For tax ordination, for tax ordination with amendment of some other laws of 5 July 2018 but also to the Tax Criminal Code. In conclusion, I will say the same thing as at first reading: we really do not have bad will, pointing to some shortcomings in the next project. That's all. Consequently, we have to accept it because it is all about being clear, clear and understandable. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u267	Thank you. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u268	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to present the position of the Modern Club vis-à-vis the Government's draft law amending the Act on the exchange of tax information with other countries and some other laws, prints no. 3208 and 3293, which actually corrects the law misinformed in previous years. These are mainly directives implemented in 2017. I feel obliged to answer Mrs Zubie: you are only fixing your own mistakes. The Government of Law and Justice has basically become a symbol of the introduction of leaky rules and the creation of a sloppy law, to which we must systematically return and update them very often only a few months later. It's exactly the same case we're discussing right now. In 2017 and 2018, we introduced European directives of 2014 and 2016 and provisions of the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Act of 2018. Today we're just updating them. These are erroneously introduced, inaccurate and underdeveloped by the Law and Justice of the Directive. As if that were not enough, the bill was also prepared in the same sloppy way. To tell you this, it's enough to recreate the footage from the committee meeting yesterday. Even the legislators paid attention to numerous errors, and we, Members, were surprised at the language used in the legislation, which has little to do with correct Polish language. One of the messengers cited examples of rules that could be ashamed of in front of linguists. Both the government and the Sejm should present a certain level of legal language. With regard to the issues of the rules themselves, the biggest discussion at the committee meeting concerned regulations which say that the accounts opened between 1 January 2016 and 30 April 2017 will be once again by the financial institutions, and in principle, as it was explained, for the first time reported, because the previous directive omitted. The parties in the form of reporting financial institutions have pointed out that the time allowed to comply with the provisions of this law is unacceptable. The institutions are physically unable to comply with the deadlines laid down by the law. Let me remind you that the law in the article. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 introduces provisions which indicate that financial institutions should send their clients a request for a tax residence statement within a very short period of time - until 30 June 2019. In our amendment we will propose an extension of this term. For us, this situation is unacceptable. We'll expect that term to be extended. During his work in committee, the Minister said that he took into account its extension, because the procedure for this amendment had actually extended. I am therefore surprised that the government has not tabled an amendment to clarify these provisions in advance. There is a chance, of course, to accept the opposition's amendments, but as I know life, you will reject them because it is wrong that opposition clubs want to make things right. So introduce these changes at the Senate level. They're really needed. It's not about making a law that's gonna be a problem. The idea is to create an effective law, from which our partners, which is dedicated, will be able to comply. In view of the above, I am making an appropriate amendment, which I was talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u269	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. Question time - one and a half minutes. Mrs Margaret Płępek has the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u270	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft amendment of the Act contains reporting regulations for 2018, for which financial institutions use the 2017 list. The introduction by this revision of the new list will cause huge confusion as the institutions will have to adapt the 2018 report in just 3 months. It's a very difficult task. The revision of the reporting rules for 2018 in a situation where this year, and hence the reporting period has already ended, would imply a retroactive amendment of the rules. Can we consider applying the provisions of the amendment to reporting only in 2019? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u271	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow, I invite you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u272	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I would like to ask, because, after yesterday's meeting of the Finance Committee, I have a huge problem with what the Minister has come to when he thinks, as you have said, of the specific reservations raised in the Committee on this project. It's about art. 6 and amendment 9. 1. That's one thing. What will happen, Minister, if financial institutions fail to send over 6 million clients to make statements within 2.5 months? Because there won't be any more time. One more question. Who will be responsible for this when it turns out that even the statements made will have to be sent again to be made with a penalty clause? Who will be responsible for this, and who will pay for this enormous work? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u273	Thank you, too. Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u274	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! As I listened to Mrs Zuby... If any of the Poles would listen, they wouldn't know what's going on. And you're just trying to fix your own mess. Financial institutions, and the Minister knows it perfectly well, implement a number of directives, PSD2, STIR, CRR, CRS, all in place. They also introduced a FATCA agreement for the exchange of tax information. I would therefore like to ask how effective do you think the introduction of this agreement was? That's one thing. Secondly, it is the Law and Justice, as Mrs Czernow said, clearly and clearly, you are responsible for this mistake. You are trying to fix it, but I have a question: What was the position of the Polish government in negotiating this directive? Did you make any comments, any doubts about today's provision to which the Directive is being implemented? It is contained in the article. 6. That's what opposition colleagues are talking about. After all, these 6 million clients of institutions, banks and SKOKs are another task and another job for banks, the lack of a clause [[♪ The bell ♪]] criminal liability. This is an extremely big job. Minister! If you're already doing something, do it with your head, because right now the clients of financial institutions are gonna be asking, "Why? You should announce that you've made a mistake, and it's because of you that customers have to put themselves back in the bank. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u275	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Filip Świtała.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u276	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I thank you for this constructive discussion on the project, as well as for this discussion that we had in committee. I'm not giving up on those commitments I talked about on the committee, but I'm not gonna be able to do anything like that. I don't have the power to get someone to make adjustments. [[Can you fix that mistake in the Senate?]] In general, I agree with your suggestions, and this was expressed during the committee meeting that financial institutions should have more time to do this exercise related to tax residence questions. Now returning to your questions, I would like to say in general that it is indeed the case that this Tax Information Exchange Act, which is already in force now, which was actually adopted on 9 March 2017, has implemented two EU directives. [[Not one.]] Not one. Directive 2014 No 107, which is the December 2014 Directive, was delayed and not implemented in 2015. We have also implemented the May 2016 Directive, which is 881. Its transposition was planned until June 2017 and we kept this deadline. This was the actual situation. I will admit that the 2014 Directive was implemented by us under time pressure because it was not implemented within the deadline. What can I say about that? This is somewhat related to the question asked by Mrs Krystyna Skowronska: What was the position on the provisions of the article. 6 Tax Information Exchange Act, i.e. what was our position on the 2014 Directive 107? Unfortunately, I am unable to answer this question, because I did not participate in this work and I simply do not have this knowledge. I just have to check it out, so I'm happy to answer this question in writing. As I say, I did not participate, nor did any of the current government participate in this work, because this directive was probably discussed in the European Commission in 2014, maybe in 2013, or maybe even in 2012. I don't know. I have to check it out. I will be happy to check this out and tell you what the position of the Polish government in this area was. [[Applause]] [[Right.]] Mrs Margaret Navel's question on reporting was here. That's such a very specific question. I will reply initially that the list announced in 2018 will largely coincide with the list announced in 2017. This is because, as regards the lists of countries, they are obliged to exchange information on bank accounts on the basis of international obligations. So these aren't letters that are subject to some significant fluctuations from year to year. Rather, these are the lists that are being amended by the fact that some jurisdictions are coming, accepting these obligations, becoming a party to the Convention on the exchange of information drawn up in Strasbourg. With regard to Mrs Zofia Czernow's question, what will happen when the institutions fail to find out who will be responsible for this and how to correlate it, I have actually answered this question. As I say, I cannot make commitments, but I agree that financial institutions should have more time to do this. With regard to Mrs Krystyna Skowronska's question, how effective it was to carry out or implement the FATCA agreement with the United States, I would like to remind you that the FATCA is so specific... [[Deal.]] No, it's not a deal. First of all, this is the United States Government Act, this is the Foreign Account... I'm sorry, I don't remember the whole title. In any case, it is, generally speaking, that the United States at some point said this: If someone is an American citizen and has an account abroad or in a foreign bank, then I must have information about this person, and whoever does not give me this information will be charged in the United States - I can't remember - 20 or 30 percent tax. [[Twenty.]] Maybe, I don't know. That's what the United States said. And what happened? Here the whole world has implemented the FACTA rules, hastily agreements have been concluded with the United States by all countries of the European Union, by almost all countries of the world, because the threat that financial flows between financial institutions that do business in the United States will be subject to this additional tax has been too great for these financial institutions. The European Union has made an effort to discuss with the United States the agreement between the European Union and the United States implementing the FACTA and, in fact, the implementation of the FACTA also took place in Poland as a result of these international arrangements. Did Poland gain any benefits under this agreement? I don't know. I must check this out and I will certainly reply in writing to you. [[Please.]] However, in order for us to realise what we are talking about - it is so that under this agreement we are to provide the United States with information about American account holders in Poland. If Poland were to apply some unfair practices or if Poland was some kind of tax haven, perhaps for the United States this information would have some value. But in the state that we have right now, we have a situation that in most cases they're Americans or people who have something to do with America. If someone e.g. He was born in the United States, then his parents returned to Poland and this person has American citizenship because he was born on American soil, then he has a duty, i.e., he is subject to such reporting. This obviously has no significance for the United States government in the case of an ordinary person living in Poland, Poles or Poles. However, yes, there are countries which may have provided the United States with some relevant information. I also do not assume that the United States as a country... is a tax haven, and therefore I do not think that we can obtain from the United States any valuable information about people who are Polish tax residents and who have significant assets in the United States and, let's say, hiding, in quotes, these significant assets from the Polish fiscal office in the United States. It's hard for me to imagine someone being so naive and trying to hide untaxed income from a bank account or any other financial instrument located in the United States. But, as I said, we will check it out and prepare an answer for you. [[Please.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[No answer to all the questions, unfortunately.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u277	Thank you, Minister. Please take the floor of the rapporteur for the committee of Andrzej Noblechta.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u278	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Nevertheless, despite these criticisms of the opposition countries, I wanted to thank you very much for working for hours on this project, a rather complicated project containing 15 articles and dozens of changes. But the whole emotion about this project was focused on one thing, and it was semantic. Let me remind you that amendment 10 introduces the provision resulting directly from the directive, translated into Polish to convey the spirit of this provision, as follows: unless the reporting financial institution knows or has reason to believe that the beneficiary is a Reportable Person. And that's what we've been discussing for almost an hour. It wasn't an idea, let's just say it. The legislators have proposed the following wording: the financial institution shall have information from which suspicion or certainty arises. It was as if such a form parallel to this decision and it caused a lot of emotion. I always respect the expression. Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, but I did not really understand what you said that the coalition was reluctant to accept your comments. There was no such dislike, my fellow Member. Anyone could articulate their comments, the legislators presented it, and the Minister, with too much patience and precision, tried to... [[But he didn't implement anything.]] ...to respond to everything and to take into account any of your attention. So that there really wasn't such an atmosphere that the world seemed to end there. No. [[It doesn't concern...]] We were working on a difficult project, most of the legislative comments were adopted by the committee and, as far as this provision is concerned, it was not an idea. Even the professor had doubts about this, but there was no other wording among nearly 50 Members and we were left with this record. It follows that your amendments make it possible for us to meet again in committee and perhaps, together, this controversial semantic text will be resolved. Thank you very much for working on this project. [[But there's no such amendment.]] On the other hand, as regards this retrospective thread, the Minister recalled: the directive was correctly introduced in 2017, within the deadline. But it's not really what I'm saying to cause bad emotions. The 2014 Directive was introduced by us only in 2017 and this introduced certain complications. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u279	Ms Krystyna Skowrońska asked for the floor to be corrected. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u280	Dear Marshal, Thank you for your vote. To the rapporteur. (PL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, However, as far as the semantics are concerned, it seems that there was a separate discussion and an article. 6, which is strictly material... [[It's the most important thing.]] ...and imposing responsibilities, it is up to the President to say: we distinguish between what was on the committee, it is semantics, we left, as to the record, the minister insisted that this is how it should remain... But we insist and the main discussion goes on around the article. 6 due to the need for tax residence statements for the period passed from 2016 and 2017, because this raises the greatest doubts and the deadline for its introduction. For this country you must assume responsibility: for the incorrect implementation of this tax information exchange law. And that's what we're gonna [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's just walking. Thank you very much. And thank you very much to the marshal, too. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u281	I, too, thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the planned item of the 24th agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the pursuit of Crime against the Polish National and some other laws, prints No. 3270 and 3284, will not be considered at the current session of the Sejm. We proceed with the examination of item 25 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Parliamentary draft law on amending the Law on the Wheels of Rural Housewives (Prints No. 3271 and 3278). I ask Mr Richard Bartosik to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u282	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Parliamentary draft law on amending the Law on the Wheels of Rural Housewives, print No. 3271. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 8 March 2019 the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for first reading. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, following its first reading and the examination of this draft law at its meetings on 12 and 13 March 2019, invites the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. The Commission shall act in accordance with Article. Article 43 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 The Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall submit three minority applications at the request of the applicant. High Izbo! This draft law introduces additional provisions allowing people, regardless of the administrative status of the area of operation of the circle, to operate in the circle regardless of their permanent place of residence. The new regulations also allow for the operation of wheels in urban areas of up to 5 000. residents. There are cases, there have been such requests and this problem will be solved by this provision. The Act also clarifies the role of the government's representative for small and medium-sized enterprises by imposing new obligations on it. The plenipotentiary will work for the development of entrepreneurship in rural areas, as well as for the promotion of rural hostels' circles, such activity which is increasingly rooted in rural areas. The Act on Wheels of Rural Housewives was very expected. It was proposed by the Government of Law and Justice and introduced by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. She was very enthusiastic. It allows wheels to operate through funding. This action is even more active. The biggest advantage of this law is the activation, the introduction of civil action in rural areas. This amendment enables and extends the operation of the rural hostel circles in line with the demands of the rural hostel circle activists, which we have heard about at meetings in rural areas. These rules extend the activities of the rural hostel circles. On behalf of the committee, I request that this bill be adopted by the High Sejm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u283	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Bartosik, the Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u284	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! We are pleased that the Rural Housewife Wheels Act is functioning, that it has been adopted so well. These additions, which are introduced today in the amendment of the law, will enable the rural hostels to expand their activities and establish them in rural areas. Let me remind you that the rural hostels' circles promote folk culture and refer to national traditions. The law, as regards the financing of these wheels, allows them to develop. This bill, let me remind you, has been adopted very, very enthusiastically. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to support this law and ask the High Sejm to adopt it, but Parliamentary Club Law and Justice makes four amendments to this law, which I hereby do. Please accept this law by the High Sejm with the amendments attached, which I am submitting to the hands of the Marshal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u285	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Arthur Dunin, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u286	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Club, I would like to present my position on the draft law on amending the Act on the Wheels of Rural Housewives. Ladies and gentlemen! On 18 November 2018, you threw the law on the circles of rural hostesses before the municipal elections. It was supposed to give you a handicap in the self-government election. However, Polish women did not fall for it. You have allocated PLN 90 million from the state budget for this purpose. How much was used? About 16 million. That's another legal bullshit. Why did this happen? Because you want to take over a 100-year tradition of rural hostess circles, women who promoted Polishness, rural culture. They just didn't fall for it. You have several circles of country housewives left, attention, double registered by the president of the agency. How does this happen? This is an unconstitutional thing, which we draw your attention to. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, the rural hostels won't get 90 million zlotys. The PiS is only spending 40 million today. He's afraid there won't be anyone else willing to register with your president again. This bill had, fortunately, you guys pulled out of it, one more catch. You wanted to give the president of Możjanówska, who runs in Euro elections, the opportunity to use 1300 thousand, 1600 thousand. for your campaign, for your campaign for Europarliament, because this bill comes back before the elections. Ladies and gentlemen! We are glad that you want to spend any money on the Polish countryside, because you do not spend much of this money. You prefer to spend it on your raises, just as Minister Ardanowski did - over PLN 260 million. Ladies and gentlemen, this law has not really been discussed by the interested parties, Mr Reporter, because it is a parliamentary law. It doesn't require any consultation. You didn't have any consultations, and the best evidence was the last meeting of the committee that the village hostels came to, and they said it to your face. No one's determined that with them. They don't want that. It's a good thing, though. I don't know what amendment you made. Is it about removing the circles of the country housewives from the register? That's the kind of amendment you wanted to make, again not in accordance with procedure. Everything you're doing, you're doing five to twelve. You're doing what you need to buy voters. I hope that the minority proposals submitted by the Polish People's Party, the Platform Club will fully support, among others. the fact that the Act should enter into force on 1 July 2019 and not 14 days after the President's signature, which shows that this 40 million will be used during the campaign for Euro-Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen! The Civic Platform Club is likely to abstain from voting on this legal bubble, a bubble that only serves the PiS in the election campaign. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u287	Thank you, sir. And I would like to invite Elizabeth Zielińska, Kukiz,15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u288	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Kukiz club15 a position on the draft law amending the Act on the Wheels of Rural Housewives. It is a pity, it is a pity that the legislative process looks as terrible as usual, and this is seen in the example of this law. Only four months later, we have to revise the bill again. I would like to remind you that as a Kukiz club15, we have filed a bill, a year before the law, and it is still a frozen project, although - unlike your project - this project was consulted with the social side. It's a shame, because if you look at what's going on, you could really think about different solutions. We could really use a discussion like this. At the committee meeting, you yourselves had doubts about the amendments. Some of the amendments were contradictory, and there were arguments that they were also contrary to the Constitution. These amendments could not be accepted immediately, and therefore they were only made now. Such sloppyness is just terrifying. In the election year, you're making percentage points in the countryside. Suddenly, you show interest in the circles of the country housewives. Because how else can one call a situation in which Mrs Możjanowska drives in the countryside than just running a campaign in the countryside. What we're witnessing is bribing the wheels: we'll give you $3,000. Up to 5,000. And sign up for our registry. But not everyone gets that $3,000. Up to $5,000, because those wheels that won't sign up for the government agency, they won't get anything. So if we have money for the functioning of rural hostels' circles, why can't we give it to all those who just want to use it and give it only to those who put themselves under the supervision of the ARMIR? Moreover, only one wheel can function in one village. And there are a lot of villages that have more than one wheel of country hostels. That's the way it is. In my country. We've got two wheels of country housewives, one of which works. as an association. Question: "What do we do now?" Which wheel is gonna get that money? Which will be awarded by the PiS? And another question: Why, instead of normal registration in court, do you necessarily need to register these wheels with a government agency? The name, which for 150 years really managed without such interference, managed even at the time of the partitions, when the agency was the backbone of Polishness in the country. Unfortunately, the new wheels that will be re-registered to the agency lose historical continuity and the right to their assets. In addition to the wheels that will register, obligations are imposed e.g. reporting, PIT-0 printing and many other documents. Therefore, it is not true that the functioning of the wheels is improving. The social side at the committee meeting indicated that it was not asked to consult this law and asks for the suspension of work on the law to finally lead to a broad discussion that would actually improve the functioning of the rural hostel circles. That is why there should be a debate, both with those wheels that are in agricultural circles and those that function as associations, and those that are not formally registered and which represent 20% wheels operating in Poland. If this bill is so good for the wheels, why did the state refuse to ask for a public hearing? After all, these positive opinions could then be heard unless there are no such opinions. Indeed, the promotion of the rural housewives' circles by Minister Możjanowska during the campaign period is questionable. However, it is a shame that public money is used in this way to campaign for the European Parliament. And the rapporteur also said that the act activates women in the countryside. Really, the circles of the country housewives did not need to be activated, they were perfectly able to activate for many years. The wheels themselves pointed to other problems in terms of their functioning. That is why we are requesting that the project be rejected at second reading in order to bring about a discussion in which the social side would be heard.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u289	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u290	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Never too much discussion about the circles of the country hostess. Already during the work on the original draft of this law, much was said about their role in the period when Poland was not an independent country, during the changes, in the situation of regaining independence, during and after World War II. There have always been circles of country housewives, that is the tradition of 150 years. This was the place where women, who were tired of working in the field, taking care of their children, their families and their homes, could have had other activities, and could have spent their time resting in a different way. Those were also times, let's remind you, without the media. These wheels played a huge, positive role for Poland. 150 years ago. Not a year ago, not six months ago, but 150 years ago, the first wheels of the country's hostess were built and for these 150 years without the PiS state persisted. And here's the idea of doing a few days, weeks before the election. such a move to persuade the wheels to the PiS with money. Unfortunately, it is a bad movement, because it differentiates the circles of rural hostesses that functioned and continue to function, to this day in various forms: based on the law on socio-professional farmers' organisations, based on the Law on associations. Especially on the basis of the Law on associations in recent years - ten, eight, seven - a mass of rural hostels has been established in rural areas. They functioned perfectly, working with the municipal authorities, with the authorities and mayors territorially competent for their activities. You decided to make a policy out of it, because how else do you call it that it is not known why the rural hostel circles were supervised by the president of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, the political institution, which was set up under political conditions, the government agency. This is an attempt at the independence of these wheels in the first stage. The second attempt is that today, on the basis of that law, and in this you do not change it at all, you turn off those wheels that do not want to give in to such political supervision, from the possibility of receiving funding. And that's the pressure. In my opinion, this is also a constitutional imbalance, because it is impossible to eliminate the possibility of functioning and receiving grants for those who have worked and functioned for years. A similar allegation can be made about the institutions and the role in all of this by the government's representative for small and medium-sized enterprises. I am now abstracting that, incidentally and temporarily, this is the role of Minister Andzelika Możdżanowska, who was doing through these pictures of the dancing Minister in the circles of the country housewives before the elections, as we have seen, we will probably see again on public television in a moment... But there is no link between the activities of the spokesperson, the proxy for small and medium-sized enterprises and the circles of rural hostess. Rural hostels' circles are not entrepreneurial organizations, they are not businesses. It is a movement more subject maybe to the minister of social policy and family, because there is an active rural community. But the most important thing to do is to give attention to the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, and it gave personal attention to one person at the price of changing their political affiliation to oversee their promotion. For these reasons, but also for many others, this project cannot be supported as it is today. We will see what amendments will be made, whether the minority proposals that were tabled at the committee meeting will be taken into account. Well, unfortunately, you folks from the country housekeeping circles want to make your political apparatus, but you're definitely not gonna make it. And we're gonna talk about it all clearly and thoroughly. And the fact that there is activity of rural women is not as a result of this law, but as a result of the fact that Poles, Poles are active people and will continue to gather in the circles of rural hostels. Not even everyone's gonna want to get backup because they have honor. And the fact that the state, when working on this law at all, did not take into account those who already functioned, there was no public consultation, there were no talks with these institutions, with those organizations that represent the circles of rural hostess, that is scandal. You are creating a new bad quality system in rural areas for women's activity. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u291	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Lieder, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u292	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! According to the proposed amendment of the Act on Wheels of Rural Housewives, a member or member of the circle may be a person whose place of residence is a village which is an area of activity of the circle, a village situated within the administrative limits of the city or a city of up to 5 thousand. residents. Circle can continue its activities also after changes in the territorial division of the country consisting in granting the village as the area of activity of the village housekeepers' circle the status of the city, only the circle entered in the National Register of Rural Houses can maintain its status. The amendment regulates certain rules on financial assistance for the rural hostel's wheels, i.e. State budget expenditure limit, information provided to the public by the President of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, monitoring the level of use of these funds by the Minister for Agriculture. The maximum limit of expenditure from the State budget for financial assistance for the rural hostels' wheels in 2019 is PLN 40 million, or about PLN 4 000. On the wheel. In the course of the work on the project in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, art. The 25th Act was supplemented by an article. 25a, which states that: a government representative for small and medium-sized enterprises can carry out tasks related to the promotion and support of rural hostels' circles and their associations, in particular as regards the comprehensive development of rural areas and support for the development of entrepreneurship in rural areas. As we know, this is a carbon from what was before. According to us, according to many people who have spoken here before is It's a completely unnecessary pre-election way to promote yourself in the country, and it's a last-minute throwaway. In the original version of the project, the amount of funds allocated to the rural housewives' circles from the budget was to be sent to the government representative to support the rural housewives' circles without any criteria. This change was, fortunately, eliminated during the work on the project in committee, but unfortunately there is still a risk that the beneficiaries of financial assistance and activities aimed at promoting and supporting the wheels will only be those wheels that have joined the National Register of Regional Houses of the government agency, the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. During the Tuesday meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, the social side took the floor on the consequences of certain provisions of the Act of 9 November 2018 on the circles of rural hostels, which we are updating today. In some elements, these rules conflict with the 150-year-old tradition of rural hostels' circles. Art. 6 of the Act in paragraph 1. 1 says that: Around rural hostess is subject to a mandatory entry in the National Register of Rural Hostels, hereinafter referred to as the Register, kept by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. In the mouth. 2 says that: Around the village hostess acquires legal personality when the entry is made. This is the stubbornness of the activities of the wheels, because the head of the government agency is supervising their activities, which has not been in existence for 150 years because there was no need to do so. And what the rapporteur has said is that it is necessary for the rural hostel's circles to take root in the countryside, it is already a kuriozum, because these circles, ladies and gentlemen, are so rooted that they can no longer be rooted more. [[Applause]] Both this amendment and the law of 9 November last year undergoes proceedings in the Sejm, of course without public consultation, and today's amendment is under the cover of the parliamentary project, which facilitates the elimination of public consultation. Speak loudly. the fact that many representatives of the groups of rural hostels, residents and residents of the village have regretted the government's favourite circles from the National Register of Rural Hostels, unclear award criteria for the circles and unfair treatment of non-registered circles. The Ombudsman has already raised reservations about the constitutionality of the law, or rather its absence, during the legislative work on the draft law and after its implementation. Some of these reservations have also been taken up by this project. We still have until tomorrow to think about supporting this project. We also look forward to the vote of the PSL amendments that we will support. However, it should be noted that this project still does not solve the problem also noted by the Ombudsman, i.e. the transfer of competences exercised in principle by the registry court to the area of competence of the President of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, which is included in the register by the village housewives. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u293	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u294	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position towards the Parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the Act on the Wheels of Rural Housewives. By virtue of the Rural Housewife Circles Act of 9 November 2018, the Rural Housewife Circles received legal personality, the possibility of applying for grants and financial support from the State budget of up to 5 000. zł. Thanks to the regulations introduced at the end of last year, rural hostel circles received a number of facilities, e.g. they set out the conditions and rules for keeping a simplified income and cost register, which is important if consideration is given to the possibility of rural housewives carrying out economic activities. Thanks to these regulations, the rural hostel circles are no longer dependent on other organisations, nor on government administration or local government units. They gained autonomy and independence. [[From who? Ha, ha, ha.]] It must be stressed that it is not mandatory to sign up to the established register of rural housewives' circles run by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. Organisations wishing to obtain support from this step can make use of this possibility. Today we are discussing an amendment, which is the result of a few months' observation of the functionality of the solutions originally proposed. I have no doubt that it responds to social expectations and recent demands. Among the most important changes are the introduction of the possibility to create and operate wheels in cities with up to 5 000. residents and limitation of the requirement of permanent residence in the village which is the area of activity of the circle only to its founding members. The aim of the proposed amendments is to enable all existing wheels to benefit from the facilities contained in the November 2018 Act, both those created in rural areas, but after administrative changes they were incorporated into the boundaries of cities and those in which activities are engaged, for example, those who do not already live in the area of the circle. for profit reasons. The rural hostels' circles are organisations with more than 150 years of history, cultivating local traditions and culture, and putting a lot of work into the social development of their villages. I am glad that this effort has finally been recognised and appreciated. I am pleased with the interest so far in designed support. I am convinced that these solutions contribute to the development of Polish villages and entrepreneurship. About Free and Solidarni supports this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[You have no idea what's in this project.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u295	Let's get to the questions. Please, the first question will be asked by Margaret Navel.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u296	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to remind you of the calls and positions of the National Council of Rural Houses and regional associations of farmers, circles and agricultural organisations. So? And you don't do anything about it. You should know that these organizations have a statutory circle of country hostels, and that they were the ones that had to be consulted on the harmful law that divided the circles. You've trespassed into an outrageous organization to destroy her identity, an organization that has a beautiful 150-year-old tradition. I have some questions for the applicants. Were there consultations at the legislative stage with the rural hostels and, above all, with the representatives of the National Council of Rural Hostels? What will be the status of the country hostess after registration with the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture? Will the uncles be able to continue to support the hostess's wheels, to finance their activities? Whether the wheels will be financed in each financial year or only once, up to 5 000. Evil? Will the wheels have to carry out an annual reporting obligation towards the statistical office and the tax office? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What about the accumulated property of the wheels, e.g. outfits, sets, furniture and other things? It's a very bad bill, get out of this legal bullshit. How embarrassing are you? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u297	Thank you, Member. Mrs Iwona Krawczyk has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u298	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Seym! I am surprised to see that once again we are dealing with a law that does not improve, does not help, does not support, but with a law that divides. You've already divided our nation. You divided teachers, doctors, judges, you dug a ditch. I thought you couldn't break it anymore. Turns out you're sharing another environment right now. You've entered the country and shared the community of the country hostess. [[Scandal.]] I'm from this community, and I know exactly how those who haven't received the support you're making for joining a government agency today feel. Why is this happening? Why can't those who are humble, those who don't want to go by your laws, count on no support? Will there be any desire and an amendment that will give you the opportunity to apply for funds for statutory tasks without your verification at the agency [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ranch housewives' circles? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u299	Thank you, too. And now I have one request for the honourable Members. That doesn't apply to you because I know you from a different form. But if the ladies in particular couldn't scream so bad, okay? These are very important topics, but sometimes to keep quiet, you can even better reach your listeners than screaming. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u300	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! To be honest, I am extremely surprised by this language of contempt, contempt for the 150-year-old tradition of the rural hostess circles, the language that presented the ruling majority. 'Cause what kind of language is it when the majority of the government says that the circles will take root in the Polish countryside? What kind of language is that when you say the wheels will finally be able to do something? What kind of language is that? Have you ever been to the country? Have you ever spoken to any of the country housewives? I don't think so, because if you had at least once attended one meeting that he organized, he co-organized one, the other, the fifth, the thousandth wheel, you wouldn't have said something like that in your life. Ladies and gentlemen! 150 years of tradition. I would like to ask the Minister why these wheels, which so far work so dynamically, like those in me, in the Bielsko, Żywiec district, in Silesia Cieszyński, in the Pszczyńska region, why do you treat these wheels worse than the creations that are to be created now just to reach for the means you offer. Why these beautiful wheels of ours, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which so beautifully cultivate the traditions that make up our community so beautifully in our little homelands and have been doing so for 150 years, why do you treat them so badly? They didn't deserve it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u301	Thank you. Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u302	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It could have been a good bill and a group of country hostesses could have used it, but unfortunately you only treated it instrumentally: give money to vote. It's the only way you see them. Because you put your first project together during a local election campaign. Then you gave 90 million PLN. You spent only $16 million because not all the farmhouse houses went to the agency, to the president. Now you want to spend 40 million PLN during the campaign for Europarlament, but to start spending this money, you specifically gave over 1.5 million PLN to a special representative for small and medium-sized enterprises, so that circles with almost 160 years of tradition teach entrepreneurship. It's psychic and embarrassing. I have this question: before the next campaign, which means I understand the parliamentary campaign in the autumn, will you add up to 40 million maybe 50 million, as in 2018, so that there will be 90 million in total, so that they may benefit more from this money and vote for you? Unfortunately, that's what it looks like. I'm sorry to say this, because the village housewives' wheels really deserve respect. They do great things for small, local, rural communities. And they really had to be treated evenly, [[♪ The bell ♪]] constitutionally and ask them to speak on their behalf. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u303	Thank you very much. Mr Richard Bartosik. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u304	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm amazed at what you're saying. Not as late as Monday I was at the county meeting of the village housewives, over 30 circles... [[Those registered or not?]] And the ones that have been working for years, and the new ones. All the wheels are happy with our solutions, they are enthusiastic about these solutions, they are happy that someone is finally helping them. [[I mean, the ones registered by...]] There's no division of wheels into those that worked before, and the ones that work now... [[What do you mean, no?]] Therefore, I wanted to ask the Minister whether every circle - I know the answer to this question, but I will ask - has the opportunity to submit an application, register with the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. [[Oh, registering, yes...]] Second thing, ladies and gentlemen. How can we treat the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture? Are you saying that every farmer benefiting from direct payments is somehow politically inspired by the use of government agencies? How else is it supposed to be? - I'm asking. I mean, you have to formalize these payments somehow. I am surprised that the good thing, the positive thing, the well received by the rural community [[♪ The bell ♪]] is so understood by the opposition states. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: You're cheating.]] [[Circles of country housewives aren't livestock to register.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u305	I'll wait for you. If anyone wants to scream, come on in. Anyone else? Good. There you go, Mr Artur Dunin.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u306	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, Although you'd be blushing like you said. It's just embarrassing. You share Polish women in the country. You share Polish women. You asked the Minister a question as to whether any wheel can register. Yeah, every wheel can register to get the money from you, except women don't want it. They don't want to be registered by you, by your agency, because these women, as you yourself rightly pointed out, have been operating in the circles of the country housewives for 150 years, no one had to register them. And that's the charge. To you. That's the charge. to you that you treat public money like your farm by bribing the circles of the country housewives. But why didn't it register so little? Because they don't want to go to you for charity. All women in the circles of the country hostess want to be treated equally, fairly, not like you, PiS, you treat women. They want all the country housewives' wheels to get that money. That money, dear women, you won't get from them, from the PiS. Unless you come courteously to bow down to the President so he can register you where you're already registered. It's a double registration. It is incompatible with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And once again, the question is: Why do you divide Polish women into villages? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u307	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr John Duda.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u308	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We have just heard words from this tribune, among others. such as: you have not consulted this law with organisations that represent the circles of rural hostess. Yeah, I guess that's what this is all about. We didn't consult. I have a question for the rapporteur: Is it true that the law that we have adopted gives legal personality to the groups of rural hostesses, i.e. it makes them independent of those organisations we mentioned here before? Is that true? [[Member Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz: Depending on the President.]] [[This is an assassination attempt.]] Legal personality is independence. That's all we need to know. Another question, this time to the Minister of Agriculture. It also came from this stand that Minister Ardanowski spent several hundred million zlotys on increases for workers of agricultural agencies. Is that true, Minister? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u309	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Now, please speak to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Richard Zarudzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u310	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for all the information you have provided. Today's meeting and meeting concerns the law on the circles of rural hostesses and some of the main things in the amendment. The point is that the rural housewives' circles, as has already been said, may have their headquarters. also in areas within the administrative borders of cities and cities of up to 5 000, and the fact that thanks to the amendment, there is no need to live now only in the countryside to be a member of the village housewives' circle. It sort of sort things out that happened in the meantime. As always, the law, when introduced, shows some of its areas that need to be completed. In answer to the questions that have been asked, can the uncles support the circles of the country housewives in this new formula - I think there are no obstacles here. In particular, both and any form of organisation of rural women can be supported in the form of a cooperation programme. There's such a tool, very important. I think that the rural hostels' circles, all of them created in one or another formula, can benefit from the Leader approach under the community-led local development programme. They can also benefit from a number of other forms of support, from grants that are generally available, including those granted by local authorities. It's not only municipal, but also county and voivodship support programs. There was a specific question I wanted to answer. Is there a one-time thing? The aid shall be determined in each reporting year, so in each financial year, in this way. It was in 2018, it is in 2019 and these procedures will be undertaken together with the next financial year. In what formula and how - these matters will be settled in the following months. What about the property of the wheels? I think there are generally accepted rules. I do not understand this question a little bit, but here nothing changes, there are no special rules on wealth, possession of property, procedures that result from generally accepted rules of the organization. I think that every form of organizing women - and rural women are pride - is tradition, it is also a firm value. My mother was also a member of the village housewives' circle. I know the important role played by the country hostess, I have direct contact with the hostess's wheels, and I think that every form - a new one - is important to support them and to diversify their ability to raise funds. That is why I think it is not the intention of the Ministry and it is not the intention of the legislator to make it worse. This is not our intention. I firmly answer this question that it is no one's intention, and some differentiation, diversification can only affect commitment, differentiation of funding, support and search for new solutions. Recently, Commissioner Hogan points out a very important issue in the new programming period which has now begun, to accept support for rural women - there is this message - and to find new tools and instruments that will help to develop, meet needs and enable women to engage in the good that they have done so well so far. I think it's about every wheel. To answer the other questions that have been asked, I would like to say that our intention is to build rather than divide. The intention is to enrich the possibilities, including the activity of women in the countryside. And the answer to the next question that's been put here. It's not true what's being passed on to the media about some superb bonuses. I supervise the restructuring agency, as well as advice centres and other institutions. This is unnecessary and false information about the bonuses paid at the restructuring agency. This also applies to the amounts to be reported. [[Today Minister Romanowski admitted that he had paid such money, so, Minister, shame.]] Mr President, we are talking about money, which also in the previous coalition, previous governments, were paid exactly according to the same rules. So let's go back to the essence of calculation and get to the truth. I think the Seym's mouthpiece is from telling the truth, actually, and getting to the truth. [[That's right, Minister. You have to be honest. You guys never do that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u311	Mr Dunin, please... Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Zarudzki: I'm pretty sure if we define it that way, and that's how we approach it... It is difficult for me to refer more broadly to this case, which is fundamentally not true. I'm saying it with all my responsibility that she's fundamentally untrue, and I deny that such payments have taken place. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Mrs Navel, as corrected. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u312	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The standard in this House is that it does not answer questions. I've asked six questions, and you've only answered three, and that's inexhaustible. If you can't answer, you don't know the problems, and you can't answer, please answer in writing. You sat there, you smiled, you were bored clearly, you yawned, and you didn't listen to what the speakers said. So answer me now or give me a written reply. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u313	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u314	I think it's possible to get acquainted with the transcripts of my existence in the Seym. [[Yeah, I can see without my glasses.]] Then, I think, confirm or deny what is true and what is not. I very much respect Members, Members, and women in particular, and let it remain so. I'll make a detailed reference to the cases in writing, which doesn't mean... [[Okay, I hope so.]] ...which doesn't mean I don't understand if I know each other. I ask you to respect both sides as well as this respect for me... [[I don't think so.]] ...will always be to the Members, regardless of which group they are. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u315	Thank you, Minister. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the committee of Richard Bartosik.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u316	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I answer Mr Duda's question as to whether these wheels have legal personality. Of course they do, and that makes them independent in their actions. Wheels can also obtain funds from other sources, and no one limits them in this respect. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to see more and more such laws supporting rural initiatives. I'm glad this bill was filed. As for political allegations, they are completely unhappened, because it is already in our reality that we are always before the elections. Even the day after the election, we're already ahead of the next election. We could never carry out our purposes and tasks. I am surprised that the state is criticizing a good action to support the circles of rural hostesses that have finally appeared. I think it's because the state feels guilty today that you weren't helping the village housewives when you were in power. Let's hope there are more initiatives like this. Once again, I ask the High House to pass this bill. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u317	And I thank you, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 21 mins 03 hours 21 min 15]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 27 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on the organisation of livestock breeding and breeding (print No 3175). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Simon Giżyński to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u318	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! At the moment, we are working on a draft law on the organisation of livestock breeding and breeding. This is a government initiative to implement European Union legislation, the 2016 Regulation in force from 1 November 2018. This law for the implementation of European Union legislation aims to clarify, harmonise, harmonise and collect in a single legal act certain Directives concerning the rearing of bovine animals, pigs, sheep, goats and equidae and the provisions in force in the European Union with regard to all those zootechnical arrangements concerning the manner in which those animals are kept. Of course, this implementation also applies to specific Polish conditions. In some sense, in Poland, the same rules have long been applied to the breeding of species belonging to economic animals in Poland, although to varying degrees. This applies to poultry, fur animals, bees, deer, i.e. deer, daniels, also alpaca, and mulberry silkers, which, at the request of breeders, especially those breeders, or organized ones, have also been included in livestock, although to varying degrees they benefit from the benefits of these solutions. For example, bee farmers or poultry farmers have been able for decades to raise funds for the keeping of breeding books and the evaluation of farmed animals. For example, in 2018, bee breeding was supported by grants of 1600 000 for these purposes. zł. The poultry farming was supported by a much higher amount, i.e. 7167 000. zł. The same prospects open up to other unions, to other breeders in the field of fur animals, deer, alpaca and mulberry silks. Of course, these compounds must follow the same path as the other ones, previously recorded, as regards the breeding of those species of animals which have this breeding, association tradition already very well established. But the road is the same, the conditions are identical. It is with the power of this implemented law that this applies to obvious situations such as association, or having legal personality. It is also a matter of fulfilling all the conditions that will allow breeding books to be kept, i.e. a certain organizational orement. I think that gradually all these breed groups will benefit from the benefits indicated here. Ladies and gentlemen! These are clearly amenities, solutions that are not burdened with any segment of suspicion or controversy. This was confirmed in the course of the consultation. These are obvious provisions, which are checked both on the ground of all European Union countries and in this implementation process of gradual introductions, as regards the use of these benefits also in Poland. They're transparent, they're unambiguous, they're the same for everyone, and they're not controversial. That is why we hope, with this conviction, to present to the High House these solutions, which have already repeatedly confirmed the basis for firmness and verification. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u319	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u320	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to present the position of the club Law and Justice towards the government's draft law on the organisation of livestock breeding and breeding, print no. 3175. The implementation of the arrangements envisaged in the project is due to the implementation of Regulation 2016/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016 on zootechnical and genealogical conditions for the breeding, marketing and marketing of breeding animals, pure-bred breeding animals and hybrid breeding pigs within the Union and the trade in and introduction into the Union of their biological material used for breeding. The entry into force of this Regulation resulted in the repeal of most of the existing European Union legislation on zootechnics, which was implemented in the current Act of 29 June 2007 on the organisation of livestock farming and breeding. In order to eliminate the conflict between the regulation and our law, it has become necessary to bring our livestock law into line with European Union law. That Regulation regulates the following: the recognition of breeders' organisations and other entities for keeping breeding books and records, the structure and manner of keeping breeding books and records, the rules for carrying out performance and genetic evaluation, the breeding of animals and official control, but - note - only in respect of species such as cattle, pigs, sheep, goats and equidae. Our previous law of 29 June 2007 on the organisation of livestock farming and breeding also applies to other livestock species, such as poultry, fur animals, bees and deer. Therefore, the proposed bill ensures the correct application of the provisions of Regulation 2016/1012 of the European Union and, on the other hand, complements them with regulations concerning other animal species. In addition, in line with the demands of alpaca breeders, it is proposed to supplement the list of livestock with alpaca in order to allow the breeding of this species to be carried out in a manner so far appropriate for livestock. The most important solutions in the proposed law are the elimination from the law of those provisions which have been regulated by the said Regulation, because they are applied directly, and the identification of bodies and institutions to which certain powers and powers will be conferred on the Republic of Poland in the territory of the Republic of Poland. Here the minister responsible for agriculture should be mentioned - he will have the competence to: recognise breeders' organisations or other entities who apply for breeding books and registers for cattle, pigs, sheep, goats and equidae, to be breed societies and breeding enterprises, to approve breeding programmes and to impose and revoke penalties in the event of infringements - and the National Animal Breeding Centre, which will carry out official controls. Further changes are the introduction of rules, as currently in force, to ensure the continuity of livestock farming of species such as poultry, fur animals, bees and deer. This is complemented, as I mentioned, by alpacas not covered by the EU Regulation. These include rules on rules for keeping breeding books and records, performance and genetic evaluation and requirements for breeding animals. In addition, as regards the amendment of these provisions, material provisions are introduced which provide the basis for State aid for the keeping of breeding books and the assessment of the performance and genetic value of livestock. For these reasons, given the need to bring our livestock legislation into line with European Union legislation and to supplement it with the rules on animal species not covered by Regulation 2016/1012, we consider the proposal to be coherent, comprehensive and transparent. The Law and Justice Club will support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u321	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Krawczyk, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u322	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present my position towards the government's draft law on the organisation of livestock breeding and breeding, print No 3175. This law will be an important instrument for intervention, regulating in a comprehensive way the breeding and breeding of all livestock species. This tool consists of Regulation 2016/1012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016 together with implementing and delegated acts, in respect of animal species such as bovine, porcine, caprine and equine animals, and national regulations concerning farmed animals such as poultry, fur animals, bees and deer which are not concerned, together with the addition of this list of alpaca livestock. The bill is supposed to be purely technical, ordering legal order, as the Minister said. Of course, we want to support it very much. We want to support not only solutions that implement this or eliminate legal conflicts that would take place, but also those that guarantee concrete effects and full supervision of public money and will contribute to the development of breeding with full involvement of Polish science. It is a pity that the first reading of the draft of such an important law takes place without prior discussion in the agricultural committee. We'd like to talk to you about something. the effectiveness of the existing spending and the verification and re-evaluation of the tasks financed by the State in the field of breeding - just on the occasion of the work on this law. It is a pity that the proposed law merely upholds the existing state of affairs and does not guarantee that the measures will be considered effective. The new law should solve problems and become a means for the development of Polish breeding. Hence our questions. Or as it is mentioned in the article. 36 laws, employees of the National Animal Breeding Centre are sufficiently qualified to inspect livestock, carry out tests, take blood samples and samples of biological material as part of the inspection? Are the solutions contained in the draft law, which in a very limited way specify control mechanisms when considering the National Animal Breeding Centre as an inspection body sufficient? Shouldn't the financial issues described in the Act be controlled by the competent tax authorities in terms of public finance discipline? Shouldn't the selection of breeding units be carried out in an open, transparent procedure under the supervision of the Minister? And should all infringements be treated only as offences that are fined without possible other offences? As I said at the outset, the Civic Platform-Citizen Coalition Club sees the need to support this law, but at the same time we look forward to answering the questions contained in my speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u323	Thank you, Member. Mr Jarosław Sachajko gave his position in writing. Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u324	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Contrary to turnout, which would indicate that it is a project of little importance for Polish villages, Polish farmers, Polish economy, I would like to say that it is of great importance. It concerns a significant production of animal production, both in terms of meat of one species or another, as well as milk, eggs, other products which the animals produce, which are the subject of agricultural production, marketing, trade, distribution, which brings financial resources to those who produce and operate them on the market. It would seem that this project, even though it is merely the implementation of European legislation into national law, would not cause controversy, but would not raise much... It is also a good place to discuss the state of breeding in Poland. Because by examining all agricultural markets, especially the pigmeat market, we have recently seen very adverse developments that would show that we have some shortcomings in this respect. Well, aside from the fact that we have a very unfavorable balance sheet... [[Exactly.]] ...the trade trade in pork, we have an even worse balance when it comes to pig trade. Poland is one of the largest in Europe, if not the largest importer of piglets, mainly from Denmark. This could indicate that in this respect we are not successful in breeding new breeds, such as those that guarantee fast fattening and good quality meat. I think that during the discussion at the committee meeting, when we examine this law, we will discuss the point by point, the article by article. The question is also whether this model, which is valid in Poland, is not necessarily a state administration, but unions, breeders' organisations carry out supervision or undertake specific activities related to reproduction and breeding, is a good, correct model. Many ask themselves whether it should be in this regard not only a state monopoly as an institution guaranteeing quality and safety, but also an appropriate marketing of such material. We'll probably want to answer those questions at the committee meeting, too. Because there are countries in Europe that have similar models in this respect, have mixed models or have a typical state model. In view of the fact that this project is very important for Polish agriculture, despite appearances and attendance in the hall showing perhaps that it is of little importance, it is not a political project. We will be in favour of directing him to work in the committee, point by point, article by article to analyze him, so that the Polish breeding and development of breeding animals are at an appropriate level to ensure Polish agriculture's competitiveness on external markets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u325	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Lieder also forwarded her position in writing. I'd like to ask you a few questions. Mrs. Iwona Krawczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u326	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Taking advantage of the opportunity that we are debating today about such an important, important law, and at the same time we are on the eve of the elections to the Europarlament, I would like to ask a question which has probably already been asked many times in this Seym. What about the breeding of fur animals? We know very well that we are a tycoon: in Europe in second place and in the world in third place. In Europe after Denmark, in the world after China. But we also remember what President Kaczyński said in relation to the breeding of fur animals. He said we had to be a real Europe. We can't be a second-class country. So I have a question for you. By implementing the rules, or by creating a new law on the canvas of the rules that are in force, is there a clear decision today about who won? President Kaczyński or Minister Ardanowski? Is this not necessary in the text of the Act on Fur Farming or on the eve of the European Parliament elections? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u327	Mrs Alicia Chybick. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u328	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you two questions. The first question concerns the genetic security of Polish breeding. How is it provided and secured? There are no specific provisions in the Act on this matter. Is genetic modification acceptable in many countries, e.g. The introduction of the jellyfish gene into the pig genes so that the meat obtained from such an animal is moister and better sold? Question two. I've been approached by people who have small alpaca farms. They claim that at the moment in Poland the level of infection with alpaca tuberculosis is dramatic. Is it true that most alpaca bred in Poland is infected with tuberculosis? If so, ladies and gentlemen, this is a huge threat for adults and children, for breeding and animals. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u329	Thank you, too, Member. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development by Mr Simon Giżyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u330	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In answer to the questions asked by you during the club speeches, I wanted to say one completely - by default and actually - of course: employees, veterinarians and zootechnics employed at the National Animal Breeding Centre have all the competences, powers and opportunities asked by Mrs Iwona Krawczyk. They use their knowledge and competences in practice, of course. However, all the checks you asked for are obvious as well. They are independent activities which remain within the competence of independent authorities of the State, which also control the National Animal Breeding Centre. Mirosław Maliszewski expressed his conviction in his statement, with which I completely agree that the act is of great economic importance for Poland and therefore requires a sound debate. Such a debate will take place on the committee. I am very pleased with this announcement and with the declaration of seriousness and the exploitation of all the opportunities that give such an insightful approach, the search for potential positives in the bill and the indication of those that are already identified. I think it will be a very important, holistic and comprehensive debate. I will refer to the questions you asked in a series of questions. There is no and there will be no ban on the breeding of fur animals. In this respect, there is no sensation or revelation. What Mrs Iwona Krawczyk asked earlier was rejected in the very right suggestion made by Mr Mirosław Maliszewski that it is not necessary to find any subtexts or opportunities to add any political threads to the bill. I am pleased to quote this statement, and as an answer explaining the problem, I dedicate it to Mrs Iwona Krawczyk, who asked about these issues. The first question by Mrs Alice Chybicka does not concern at all the matter of the law that we are examining today. As regards the question of alpaca breeding in Poland, it is also not directly relevant for this part of the debate, but because of the importance and concreteness of the matter to which it relates, I undertake to provide an answer in writing. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u331	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u332	The main objective of the project is to adapt Polish regulations to the current EU legislation on breeding and breeding of bovine animals, pigs, sheep, goats and equidae. The aim of the project is to implement the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2016/1012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016 on zootechnical and genealogical conditions for the breeding, marketing and marketing of pure-bred breeding animals and hybrid breeding pigs within the Union and trade in and introduction into the Union of their biological material for breeding and introduction into the Union and amending Regulation (EU) No 652/2014, Council Directives 89/608/EEC and 90/ 425/EEC and repealing certain acts in the field of animal husbandry. National rules on breeding and breeding of non-Union animals, namely cervids, poultry, fur animals and honey bees, have been laid down. In addition, the range of these species has been extended to include alpaca and mulberry silk. As for these regulations, I have two comments. Firstly, alpacas as farm animals are not yet covered by the relevant guidelines on the conditions of their maintenance and farming and their well-being. In 2016, it was estimated that the alpaca in Poland was around 3,000. pieces, in 2018 approx. 4,000. It is difficult to establish their current number as they have so far been associated animals and no one has kept a breeding register of these animals. When, therefore, will the minimum requirements for keeping alpaca in the context of the proposed changes give alpacas the status of breeding animals be defined? These appropriate animal conditions must be taken care of. With regard to animal welfare, my second point in this matter concerns the breeding of fur animals. Unfortunately, the announcements of the PiS concerning the ban on animal breeding for fur were merely a soap of the eyes of voters. Most European Union countries have already introduced this ban, so fur animal breeders benefit from the opportunities that Poland allows in its law. The Ministry of Agriculture declared the tightening of the farm control criteria in the past year, but at the moment it is difficult to verify these promises. According to the latest report of the European Court of Auditors on livestock There are still irregularities. Although the European Commission has issued guidelines on the transport conditions and methods of slaughter of animals and the welfare of pigs, there are still extreme deviations in their practical application, as demonstrated by the latest journalistic case of animal treatment in slaughterhouses and trade in bovine meat from sick cows. It is also a problem for some Member States to delay the implementation of recommendations in national law. Although this project does not concern animal welfare, the regulations on farming imply the need to regulate the living conditions of animals in breeding, in this case new animals on the livestock list in Poland - alpaca and mulberry. Most of the proposed provisions are necessary and relevant from the point of view of Community law, and there is no doubt that they need to be implemented. This law will introduce in Poland the same rules for breeding cattle, pigs, sheep, goats and equidae as those in force in all Member States of the European Union. In view of the above, the Modern Posel Club will vote in favour of the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u333	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club Kukiz'15, I have the honour to present my position on the government's draft law on the organisation of livestock breeding and breeding. The main problem, which should be settled by the new law, is the faulty rules that allow unjustified financing of relationships, which unfortunately do not contribute to the development of Polish breeding. The Ministry, in response to my interpellation on grants from the Biological Progress Fund, has revealed that the checks of the National Animal Breeding Centre each year show the amounts of subsidies collected by the unions in excess. Thanks to the 2004 legal solution of only around 11 thousand. members of the Polish Federation of Cattle Breeders and Milk Producers, and all milk producers in Poland are about 120 thousand, took full responsibility for the direction of dairy cattle farming, assessment of the value of dairy cattle and meat-and-milk cattle production, and keeping herd books. The National Animal Breeding Centre in the control procedure has detected a number of irregularities indicating a breach of public finance discipline and the Accounting Act, and the Federation has not yet returned undue subsidies. The Minister himself admits that he has no influence on the Federation's accounting policies and that he does not control the cash flows which clearly indirectly affect the income of the Federation and its subsidiary. The proposed law will only sustain the pathological state of affairs described and guarantee the means, regardless of the effects, of organisations which have nothing to offer the farmer. The new law should solve these problems and become a means of developing Polish breeding, not a source of funding for the organization. If we are talking about the implementation of delegated tasks and the financing of specific actions, the Ministry of Agriculture should decide on measures, and the law itself must not force the Minister to pay for the breeding ideas of the organisation. Union decisions cannot be a form of extortion of public subsidies, as proposed in this document. The administrative procedure for the allocation of appropriations must be clearly deleted and the appropriations should be allocated by means of a regulation of the Minister through the National Animal Breeding Centre, with the involvement of national scientific bodies. In view of the achievements of Polish breeding, it should be considered that the system in which the unions decide and the minister pays is totally not working, therefore the documentation and current supervision should be carried out with the involvement of research institutes and national scientific bodies. The leading institute in implementing the law should be the Institute of Zootechnics in Krakow as a state research unit. At the same time, there is no clear provision in the Act that, in the event of irregularities and illegal expenditure or lack of results, the Minister may retain financing and entrust actions to other entities. The Kukiz Club'15 will only support solutions which will guarantee concrete results, full supervision of public money, reduce impunity of wrongly issuing grants of the organization and contribute to the development of Polish breeding with the involvement of Polish science. Unfortunately, the project under discussion today does not pursue any of these objectives, and its questionable advantage is to provide a specific existence for organizations which earn millions on dying Polish breeding, and to try to sanction the legal obligation to pay for breeding as before, regardless of the effects. In view of the lack of implementation of the above-mentioned provisions, obvious requests in the procedated law are requested to reject the project at first reading.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u334	A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. This concludes the discussion of the agenda items scheduled for 14 March this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. Please, Mr Tomasz Szymański has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u335	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Sejm of the Republic of Poland is a place where the best legal solutions should be developed. This is the place where substantive discussions should take place on topics from various fields that concern Poles and Poles. Unfortunately, more than 3 years ago, the Sejm was transformed into a roller, whose Law and Justice run through well-functioning legal solutions and replace them with their - worse, ill-considered and most frequently unconsulted. Every day, we witness how the Legal Bubbles of Law and Justice destroy well-functioning areas of social life. In December 2016, parliamentarians of the Law and Justice introduced a reform of the education system, which practically from day to day changed the functioning of Polish schools in a revolutionary way. When I spoke with the Georgian teachers in 2016 about their concerns and the risks associated with the implementation of this reform, in the public media, the Minister of National Education assured that everything would be fine, that everything was prepared, that everything was counted, that there would be no layoffs and no one would suffer. When together with the people of Grudziądz I collected signatures against revolutionary changes in the education system, the Ministry of National Education had the same comment: Everything is well prepared, converted, there will be no layoffs, no one will suffer from this reform. I'm a parent, my son goes to elementary school. I know how the school she attends today worked before the reform, and I know how it works today. Therefore, I firmly state: the education reform introduced by the PiS was unprepared. The reform of education introduced by the PiS has done many bad things to both students and teachers. The reform of education introduced by the PiS introduced chaos in schools and reduced the level of teaching, as well as imposed huge costs of introducing it and transferred it to the local government. Ladies and gentlemen! These are not just my words, these are the words of the inhabitants of Torun, Grudziądz, Wąbrzeźna, Golubia-Dobrzyń who report to my parliamentary office and inform me about the chaos that exists today in schools. These are the words of parents who want the level of education of their children to be high and the learning process to be carried out without the stress associated with a large range of material that needs to be adopted in a very short time, as well as teachers who want to teach children and young people based on a well-prepared programme base and programme basis, while at the same time having the possibility of further personal and professional development, but above all guaranteeing stable development, stable employment and decent pay. Unfortunately, meeting the expectations of teachers and parents is virtually impossible because of the reform of chaos education. Information about how unprepared education reform was is also coming to me from local government officials on whom the Government of Law and Justice imposed the burden of introducing it. For example, due to the education reform introduced since September 2019 some schools in December will lack classrooms, which will lead to late afternoon lessons and in some cases will be conducted in neighbouring buildings which are currently located in the school. In other schools, classrooms will not be used. This paradox is, in a sense, one of the proofs of how unprepared the state has introduced. Another example: Due to the reform of the education system in Grudziądz, Junior High School No. 4 was transformed into Primary School No. 1 and Junior High School No. 6 was transformed into Primary School No. 17. At the time the schools functioned as junior high schools, there were 10 and 16 classes respectively. In September 2018, the number of class branches operating within these schools was 7 and 11 respectively, and in September 2019 only 5 and 7. This means a decrease in the number of class units by up to 50%. What does that mean? The decrease in the number of classes is a reduction in the number of teachers' posts, and this entails a serious risk of losing their jobs. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I'm going to make an appeal. The reform of the education you have introduced, you imposed in such irresponsible manner, is most likely the responsibility of self-government. It's about local money and local government work, it's gonna be on their shoulders, and it's gonna prove whether this reform is gonna work out or not. That is why I call for you to work with local governments, not to burden them with certain reforms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u336	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u337	Mr. Marshal! Membership! Today I have the honour to present a statement concerning the school - the Agrotechnical School and Food Management Team in Radom. Ladies and gentlemen! Today I would like to present in a few words the situation of the Group of Agrotechnical Schools and Food Economy in Radom, which will be able to continue to serve students and continue to develop by signing an agreement with the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. Thanks to the efforts of the Government of Law and Justice and the enormous support of Minister Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski, we can enjoy this information. According to the agreement, the transfer of property to the Agrotechnical School and Food Management Team, i.e. almost 8 ha of land along with buildings, will take place by way of a donation under a separate notarial act. The school has gained new prospects for development and the city will be relieved of its costs. At the moment, the professions in which students can learn are landscape architecture techniques, mechanization techniques for agriculture and agrotechnologies, veterinary techniques, food and catering techniques and techniques for renewable energy equipment and systems. At the industry school you can gain the profession of mechanics operator of agricultural vehicles and machinery, and from next year school - also a gardener. Most of the competitions offered by the school are not included in educational offers of other vocational schools located in the city or region. The Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development has been successfully running its network of Ministry of Agricultural Schools for a long time. So far it is a leading body for 53 schools throughout Poland. These are reference centres, equipped with the latest machinery and equipment necessary for effective training of agricultural professions. In the region where agrotechnic is located, such a school is not yet available and the Ministry has therefore agreed to take over this school. Agrotechnik is located at the edge of Radom in the district of Wacyn. The school buildings and school workshops currently occupy 8 ha and are located in a beautiful old park. It has an appropriate teaching base for training in the above mentioned period. competitions. There are specialized professional workshops in the school, and the teaching staff have the appropriate competences. The competitions in which young people are educated in agrotechnics are of great interest. These include veterinary care, garden design, food, agricultural technology, and renewable energy. However, we must bear in mind that we are witnessing continuous technical progress. In the face of new innovative technologies emerging in the field of agrotechnologies, the school must meet high demands. Maintaining such a modern school requires great investment and financial expenditure, which was a very big challenge for the host body, i.e. for the city. The municipal authorities were not able to satisfy these needs sufficiently. Knowing the equipment provided by the Ministry of Agriculture, it can be certain that this state of affairs will soon be improved in the Vatican school. As a resident of Radom, I am pleased that such an excellent school will be able to continue to educate new generations of young people, for which I thank the Minister very warmly and all those who have contributed to the fact that this school will continue to function for the benefit of the entire Radom region. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u338	Thank you, Member. And, please, Mrs Alicia Chybick.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u339	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My speech will concern information technology in health care, and in particular the issue of prescriptions. Health IT covers very widely all medical services that are provided to patients, starting with basics and the longest existing in hospital, which is the history of the disease. In this case, it's about the e-story of the disease. Most health care units already carry out electronic history of patient data diseases, which is very convenient especially for chronic patients who repeatedly return to a medical facility, whether it's a POZ facility or it's a hospital. However, very few individuals are prepared for the exclusive use of the e-story of the disease and the complete abandonment of paper records, which would be a great savings not only of paper, but also of resources and above all of human strength, because each document is repeatedly signed by a number of health workers. The second thing is e-releases. E-releases quite nicely embraced. They make it very easy both to display them and to control them. The most important thing from the patient's point of view is the e-account. In the patient's e-account, i.e. the online account of each of us, will record all medical problems, diagnostics of these problems, as well as treatment of the patient from the moment of birth until he leaves the other world. This will also prevent medications from being prescribed for the same disease in several medical facilities, often interacting with one another. E-directions are in preparation and we will proceed with this bill. They'll make things easier, too. But I wanted to talk about e-prescriptions. Well, when it comes to introducing computerization in health care, there is careful preparation. At the moment, ladies and gentlemen, e-prescriptions have been introduced. The point is that a doctor who has a contract with the National Health Fund can't write such an e-recipe to treat himself and his family. This applies to a large number of retired doctors. The existing electronic system does not allow such a doctor to register. And that's the big problem. This is an urgent matter that should be clarified as soon as possible. In fact, it led me to make this statement, and I will undoubtedly write an interpellation on this matter. Many retired doctors come to me, who are very happy to go to e-prescriptions, but the worst part is that at the moment when the bill comes in and together with it the obligation to issue only e-prescriptions, they will be unable to discharge medications. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u340	Thank you very much. Mrs Krystyna Wróblewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u341	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to present today the figure of a great character, Prof. Dr. Hab. Bolesław Fleszar, who received the honorary doctorate of the Rzeszów University of Technology. This distinction was granted by the Senate of the University in recognition of Professor Fleszar's achievements in the field of physical, analytical, electrochemistry and his merits in the transfer of historical truth and the formation of democratic attitudes, as well as in recognition of his invaluable contribution to scientific development and patriotic formation of many generations of students. The professor's most important scientific achievement was the development of a new model of double electric layer, so-called. a polarisation model. The professor promoted five doctors, two of whom are independent scientists, developing electrochemical methods in their research. They promoted a total of eight doctors. It can therefore be concluded that the professor is the creator of the Rzeszow scientific electrochemical school. Prof. Fleszar's scientific achievements include several dozen original works published in scientific journals, 13 patents, dozens of commissioned research studies and numerous conferences. In recognition of the importance of this acquis in 1996. The Central Qualifications Commission granted him the title of professor of chemical sciences. The professor's contribution to the educational and organizational development of the Rzeszow University of Technology is invaluable. Prof. Bolesław Fleszar organized a system of chemistry teaching for non-chemical students. He was one of the main organizers of the Faculty of Chemical Technology, which inaugurated his activities in 1968. In 1973 Prof. Bolesław Fleszar for political reasons, for the content of the lecture inaugurating the academic year was removed from performing administrative functions at the university. In September 1980, he joined the "Solidarity" and was soon elected to the bureau of the work commission of this association at his home university. He also carried out union activities outside the polytechnics. He's assigned to him, for example. authored by many speeches during meetings and solidarity demonstrations in 1987 and 1989. The undisputed authority of the professor caused him to be elected as the rector of the Rzeszow University of Technology in the first democratic elections of the university authorities in Poland in 1981. Unfortunately, less than a year later, during a period of martial law, he was dismissed from his post. Since 1981 Prof. Bolesław Fleszar has co-edited an independent cultural and social monthly magazine called Reduta. Between 1985 and 1990, he was a lecturer in the academic, working and agricultural diocese of Przemysl and a member of a team of independent historians. In 1989 Prof. Fleszar became a member of the Civic Committee and on the list of this committee was elected Senator of the Republic of Poland for the first term of office. In these elections he gained almost 80% important votes. In the Senate committees he dealt with matters of education, science, culture and the media. Among other important projects of Professor Fleszar I would like to mention that the professor with the help of other activists led to the construction of the monument of General Władysław Sikorski in Rzeszów. 30 years ago, in such a difficult time for Polish democracy, he also participated in the work of the Committee of the Obstetrics of the 70th anniversary of the Independence of Poland. I am glad that just now, 30 years later, on the 100th anniversary of those events Professor Bolesław Fleszar was honoured with the honorary title of Doctor of Honoris causa Rzeszow University of Technology. Prof. Bolesław Fleszar has been awarded many times for his activities, among others. Medal of the Committee on National Education, the Order of Rebirth of Poland by the Bachelor's Cross, and in 1999 Prof. Bolesław Fleszar received the scientific award of the town of Rzeszów. The professor's scientific achievements represent an immeasurable value for subsequent generations, which, when entering into professional life, have the opportunity to benefit from his knowledge and achievements on the basis of science. The title awarded to Dr. Honoris causa is the culmination of Professor Bolesław Fleszar's many years of scientific and social work. Currently waiting for the removal from the hands of the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda of the Order of the White Eagle. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u342	Please, Mr Jacek Wilk.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u343	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we heard information from the Foreign Minister about Polish foreign policy for the last year. It would seem that the Minister comes from some other planet or a completely different country, because what he said had nothing to do with the reality in this particular area of government policy. Examples of disasters and failures of Polish foreign policy could be mentioned here for a long time. I only wanted to refer to the most blatant and most spectacular failures. It takes about a month from the infamous memory of the Middle East summit, which was actually an anti-Iranian summit in which Poland, as it turned out, was neither a host nor really even initiated this summit, but simply carried out foreign commands. At this summit, we learned some interesting things. First of all, Poland, Poles were disgraced by the disgraceful, scandalous words of Prime Minister Netanyahu, which he gave at the Polin Museum. In addition, we have learned from Mr Mike, Pompeo, that Poland is to prepare special, comprehensive legislation for the implementation of Law 447 concerning the so-called. property without heirs. Then we learned that in his duties as Israeli Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr.Israel Katz gave yet more embarrassing and absolutely unacceptable racist words about Poland, and Polish diplomacy did not actually make any real answer in this regard. In addition, a meeting took place shortly afterwards, the summit of the Visegrad Group without the participation of Poland. So far, the Polish people have not seen any real, actual reaction of the Polish government towards the Israeli government to all these incidents. This merely shows how Poland was trapped, relying only on one strategic partner, actually arguing and making diplomatic relations worse actually with all other countries. Another thing that the Minister did not mention, and which is absolutely fundamental at this moment for the future of Poland, is the matter of the climate package. It is inevitable that under these conditions, under the rule of the climate package electricity prices in Poland must go up, they must go violently, by several dozens, or maybe even 100%. . This means, in practice, an increase in prices for Polish entrepreneurs by up to a dozen percent, which will probably result in foreign markets losing and simply losing through competition, in the fight against their competitors from abroad. The government doesn't seem to be planning at all to do anything about it, and it didn't even mention that this sick, ideological, senseless climate package should be voted out. The question of disappearing markets for Polish farmers remains. Polish agriculture is now in a tragic position. What has been happening recently in the streets of Warsaw is only a gesture of despair of Polish farmers because they are deprived of their markets, preventing direct sales of their products. In fact, more and more Polish food markets are flooded by foreign food, and this is of uncertain quality. In addition, the Polish government is not really doing anything that Polish farmers within the European Union, which was so much discussed today, so that Polish farmers could have such subsidies, such as French or Dutch farmers, which are, respectively, about four times higher. In short, in spite of the beautiful words about Poland's role in the European Union, our situation is getting worse on a regular basis. In view of the above, it seems to me that it was most appropriate to present some time ago to the Prime Minister of Moravian kneeling people by the Confederacy of Korwin, Liroy, Braun, nationalists, because this is Polish foreign policy. It's still a policy on its knees, and unfortunately, there's no indication that there's going to be any change here. We demand that the government finally take seriously the problems of Poland on an international scale; that it raise seriously the question of the termination of the climate package, which will lead to a large part of the Polish economy; that it fights for the Polish farmer to have the same conditions of competition in Europe as other farmers; that the Polish farmer have open markets - also to the East, also in other directions. And we also strongly demand that the Polish government finally plead for the dignity of the Polish people and strongly, unambiguously, respond to the kind of vile attacks that we have been facing recently from various external factors. Thank you very much. [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u344	I thank the Member for making his statement. I invite you to the speaker of Monika Wielichowska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u345	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In recent days we have heard too many lies about the Warsaw LGBT+ declaration, which caused an avalanche of heyte, an avalanche of hatred, misunderstandings, and above all propaganda of ignorance. When international standards develop in Europe through legislation, the case law in Poland is stagnated. We are taking the penultimate place in Europe in terms of the state of legal protection provided to LGBT people. Instead of implementing legislation that will increase the protection of victims of homophobia or transphobia-motivated crimes, instead of increasing protection against discrimination, instead of education, education and once again education, building and complementing the curriculum for schools with content that concern human rights, the fight against hatred, the hater, anti-discrimination education, sexual education, governing - manipulating facts - raise and fuel absurd allegations about the LGBT card and education of our children. It's very dangerous. They ignite homophobia, hate, and heat up the hat. They're building an aggression that can turn into persecution, and it's scary. The rulers, criticizing local governments who want to teach tolerance, to fight discrimination, to protect against hatred, to teach how to react to violence, pedophilia or hat, give consent to hate speech, to evil, which most often remains unpunished. The Ombudsman rightly notes that local authorities should use all the tools available to them to improve the situation of vulnerable people, including LGBT+. It's a short lesson. Paragraph 1. Knowledge is better than ignorance. Knowledge, reliable, age-appropriate education is needed and necessary. Wise education raises awareness and defends against threats, teaches what is a bad touch, teaches defense against paedophiles, unwanted pregnancy, prevents diseases, infections, teaches acceptance of oneself. It tells us where and how to look for help and support. Education at school should replace parents who do not have time, do not want or cannot talk about sexuality with their children. Not knowing - it's everywhere. It is most often associated with misinformation, which children and young people are looking for on the Internet and among their peers. Access to ignorance is inevitable and unfortunately daily. Paragraph 2. The rights of sexual minorities are the right to equal treatment, without hat, aggression, hatred and fear. Paragraph 3. What are World Health Organization standards? This is a document for kindergartens, schools and parents, which deals with reasonable sexual education, a document that shows how human sexuality develops, proposes how to talk to children. Paragraph 4. Sexual education classes, which announces the LGBT+ declaration, will not take place in kindergartens, only in schools from the fourth grade with parental consent and will be additional classes. Paragraph 5. Anti-discrimination classes, i.e. lessons about tolerance, will take place within educational hours. And why the fuss? First of all, I dedicate this lesson to President Kaczyński, because he started this speech of hatred. We must resist manipulations and lies always and wherever possible. That is why it was important for me to hear the voice of support from the Sejm for all those who are fighting for the education of their children. Finally, I wanted to refer to the report presented by the Episcopate on pedophilia, but also to the outrage of bishops on the LGBT+ declaration. As a Catholic, I am very disappointed and angry. The church hierarchs, you didn't carry the job. In your pedophilia report, you presented some data, numbers, charts. It seems to be heavily cut. Where did you get them? - I'm asking. Where are the victims? Where did their suffering go? Where's your request for forgiveness? Where's the declaration of compensation for the victims? Where's the hard saying: we're not gonna cover for paedophile priests? Where's the word that no one's gonna harass children with impunity? Where's the request for forgiveness? I think the Poles and Poles didn't want to hear about mercy for the perpetrators, they wanted to hear the only word: I'm sorry. The church hierarchs today combined pedophilia in the Church with sexual education in schools and the LGBT card, and this is unacceptable. How can sexual education be called into question or anti-discrimination education? What upset you about this declaration? After all, its aim is to provide reliable sexual education and lessons of tolerance among young people. Don't you want the kids to be aware? Don't you want the kids to know what a bad touch is? Don't you want the kids to know what to do when they're surrounded by a pedophile? How do we deal with other threats? [[♪ The bell ♪]] After all, without education, children and young people will not know how to defend themselves against evil. Why is the LGBT card bothering you? After all, minority rights belong to the canon of fundamental human rights. As a society, we have a lot to do, each of us. The Church can also do much more. It's never too late for that. I strongly appeal for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-03-14-sejm-78-2.u346	Thank you very much, Member. That concludes our parliamentary statements. (reportage, talk show, street probe, etc.)). I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. by 15 March 2019 at the latest 9. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 22 min 11]]
