ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I would like to call on the secretaries of today's deliberations Marta Kubiak, Katarzyna Osos, Sylvester Tulayev, Arkadiusz Myrcha and... that's all. The first part of the session will be Mr Marta Kubiak and Mr Sylvester Tulaev. The minutes and the list of speakers will be led by Marta Kubiak and Katarzyna Osos. I consider the minutes of the 80th session of the Sejm to be adopted in the absence of objections. I inform that the President of the Council of Ministers informed the Sejm of his intention to submit to the President of the Republic of Poland for ratification, without the consent of the Act, the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Estonia on mutual protection of classified information signed in Warsaw on 27 November 2018. Members did not raise objections within a certain time limit on the validity of the ratification procedure chosen by the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has submitted a report requesting that the Prime Minister adopt this notification without reservation. The committee's report is in print No 3433. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 120. 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I inform you that there are no reservations as to the validity of the procedure chosen by the Council of Ministers for ratifying this document. After consulting the Seniors Convention, I decided to delete the current item from the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Penal Code Act, print No 3386. The Commission for Administration and Home Affairs has submitted a report on the Government's draft Act on the pursuit of economic activities in the field of the manufacture and marketing of explosives, weapons, ammunition and military or police-purpose products and technology, print No 3429. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in discussions on the items on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the Seniors' Convention accepted the proposal of the Sejm Bureau to consider at its meeting the current information on the government's appalling activities regarding the acquisition of helicopters for the Polish Armed Forces, which was requested by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - the Civic Coalition. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter, as well as the list of laws that the Senate adopted without amendments, are available in the Sejm Information System. Formal requests shall be made by Members. Mr Boris Budka, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u2	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm filing a formal motion on behalf of my club for an hour off. 12 so that you can have time for reflection from the Law and Justice Club. There's a person in your ranks who justified a paedophile from Tylava. [[She was defending!]] There's a person in your ranks who defended...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u3	Mr President, this is not a matter for the agenda. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u4	...of this kind of behavior. [[Voice from the room: Name!]] It does not matter to us whether it is your Member or it is the former President of Słupska. [[And you were defending Polanski.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u5	Mr President, this does not concern the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u6	We're speaking clearly...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u7	You're in violation of the rules of procedure. [[Peterovich!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u8	...no tolerance for this type of behavior.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u9	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you are presenting a legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u10	Please, Marshal, for an hour. 12 just to get you to withdraw your recommendation... [[What name?]] [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u11	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention again under Article. 175 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. [[Peterovich, go away!]] Mr Piotrowicz, on the basis of his request... Just, reminding you, a formal motion. There you go. [[Get out of here! Get out of here!]] [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Disgraceful!]] [[Voice from the room: In what mode?]] Corrections. [[No corrigendum shall be granted.]] [[Peterovich, go away!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u13	No, no. Mr President, you may make a formal request, not in the manner of correcting it. [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] Quiet, please. [[Disgraceful!]] [[Voice in the Chamber: There is no formal application in writing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u14	I am filing a formal motion against Mr Boris Budka's request. [[There's no such conclusion.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u15	Quiet, please. [[There's no such thing.]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: There is no such conclusion.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u16	I understand that some politicians... [[But we don't understand how you can be such a man.]] The fact that Mr Nitras does not understand is my understanding. I understand. [[I wasn't defending pedophilia!]] [[Applause]] Part of politicians aren't interested in facts, especially those that aren't comfortable... [[It's about schmucking.]] ...compatible with their preliminaries. First of all, in this case... [[You were defending a pedophile!]] ...the facts are that I wasn't investigating this case. [[Sure.]] I've repeatedly informed the media about this. I didn't do any procedural work on this case... [[And we saw it on TV.]] ...and I didn't make substantive decisions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The second thing is, I acted as a press secretary because that was my duty. [[You were defending a pedophile!]] The district attorney's office doesn't have a press secretary's office, and according to the rules of procedure... [[Ciumcans.]] ...the general organizational units of the prosecutor's office are only entitled to contact with the media and only the head of the prosecutor's office.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u17	Thank you very much, sir. [[Pedophile's spokesperson!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u18	I've informed you of the findings of the investigation. [[Ridiculous.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u19	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u20	Abuse is imputing words to me... [[Everybody heard.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u21	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u22	...which are not the words of my authorship. This is a faithful quote of witnesses' statements. [[A paedophile's spokesperson.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u23	Thank you very much, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, a formal request has been made against... [[It wasn't against it.]] ...a motion against this proposal. [[Voice from the room: There is no such thing.]] For the record, I will put this proposal to the vote, but at the same time, I am informing you... [[In writing, please.]] ...that I will submit a proposal to the Bureau of the Sejm to report the matter of Mr Boris Budka's speech to the ethics committee. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Crucify me!]] Ms Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz will make a formal request.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I request that we adjourn today's sitting until tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen! We're in a special situation. The Polish Sejm was influenced by a law increasing the penalty for pedophilia. This bill is to be prosecuted on a committee whose head is a man who at a press conference, as he himself admitted, [[Applause]] As a spokesman, he minimized the guilt of a priest in Tylawa who was convicted of pedophilia. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir!]] He said touching the intimate places of a couple of teenage girls... [[Sit down!]] ...was associated with this priest's bioenergetic abilities. [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] He spoke at this press conference about the fact that sleeping in the parish of a priest from Tylawa was an attraction for girls. [[Scandal!]] I have a question: Would you allow the girls of your family to sit on the lap of a priest from Tylawa? [[Cum-cum-cum-cum-cum-cum-]] This man doesn't have the ability to drive. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The committee...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u25	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u26	...to take care of the pedophilia case. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u27	Thank you, Member. Ladies and gentlemen, there's a request for adjournment. Except that I remind you Members that it is not yet clear to which committee this draft law will be addressed. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, once upon a time, it was agreed, as regards the formal conclusion from the clubs, that up to two proposals could be accepted. [[And where was that?]] There was an honorary arrangement. Here's my third motion, Mr Nitras. [[Third time's a charm.]] I will allow Mr Nitras to make this formal request, but I warn you, however, to keep these arrangements. There you go. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Liar!]] Formal proposal, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u28	Thank you, Marshal. My case will not concern Mr. Peterowicz. [[But you hit women!]] It concerns the information requested at this meeting by the Civic Platform parliamentary club. [[A woman's boxer.]] It's been a week since the media revealed that Mr Morawiecki was connected with his former employer, the West Bank, a contract under which he has any property benefits, this bank has some obligations to him. It's been a week. The Prime Minister was in time to reveal the adoption of his own children, as some say, in order to hide this case... [[Some of the MPs are hitting the desktops.]] ...and he didn't refer to it. Today, during this meeting, the Seymary should state whether it connects Prime Minister Morawiecki... [[Get out of the podium!]] ...some deal or not, because the question is, who pays Prime Minister Morawiecki? Who's paying him? [[A woman's boxer!]] You can't escape that question. Prime Minister Morawiecki will not escape this question. [[Voice from the courtroom: Away from the pulpit!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u29	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u30	Mr. Marshal... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u31	But the Member has not submitted a formal application, at least I have not heard it. [[Mr. Marshal can't hear you.]] [[Member Sławomir Nitras speaks with the microphone off]] Mr President, please leave the speaker, because your speaking time is over. I draw your attention. Mr President, please leave the speaker. [[Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] I draw your attention. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Knock on the head.]] I'm asking you to follow the rules of the Sejm. Ladies and gentlemen, this matter is not covered by the agenda as information, but it falls within the scope of one of the questions, so I have listened to the Member to the end. [[A woman's boxer.]] [[He's a cheeky guy.]] Member Robert Winnicki, near the Confederation, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u32	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With reference to the article. 186 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I ask for a break and an explanation of why the item on the law on inheritable property has been removed from the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a testimony to the fact that the PiS is going to pay the Jews in connection with the huge claims of wealth... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u33	Mr President, this is not the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u34	...which today are being edited in the United States and Israel.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u35	Mr President, I draw your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u36	This is a testimony to the fact that you are afraid of debate... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u37	Mr President, your proposal cannot be regarded as a formal proposal because this item is not on the agenda. Mr Marek Suski, Mr Law and Justice has the floor. Also with a formal application. Please. [[Member Robert Winnicki speaks with the microphone off]] Thank you very much. Mr President, please leave the speaker. [[Allow me to file a formal application until the end.]] Mr President, please leave the speaker. [[Mr. Marshal, allow me to file a formal motion.]] Mr President, please leave the speaker... [[Don't do that, Marshal.]] ... Because you're not filing a formal application. [[I am making a formal request because this concerns the agenda.]] Mr, Art. Paragraph 184. Two says... [[This concerns the agenda, Mr. Marshal...]] Not applicable to the agenda. Mr President, in accordance with the Rule. 175 I must warn you that you are facing disciplinary consequences. [[It's a granda. You want to sell Poland. You do not want a debate on this in the Sejm, a political debate. That's the truth.]] Mr President, in accordance with the Rule. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3 I call you to order. [[You want to pursue Jewish claims. That's the truth.]] I'm calling you to leave the speaker. [[Mr. Marshal, this is the granda you're doing. It's a granda.]] Mr President, thank you very much for this statement, but please leave the speakerium. [[Let me finish my formal application.]] Mr President, I must refer to the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 4. [[Mr. Marshal, you break the rules, you break the law. You want to sell Poland to the Jews. That's the truth.]] Mr President, I would like to call you to order... [[I'm calling your marshal to order.]] ...and I find that you are preventing the proceedings from taking place at the moment. [[You're breaking the rules. You're breaking good parliamentary customs.]] Please leave the podium. [[I'm calling your marshal to order.]] Please leave the podium. [[I'm calling your marshal to order. I'm asking for... a debate.]] I'm drawing your attention under the Art Act. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: Four, I'm calling you back to order, and I'm saying you're making it impossible. Please, Mr Marek Suski. [[Speech outside the microphone, ringtone]] Mr Nitras has been reprehensible for the second time. I'm asking you not to scream. [[Nitras, louder, louder.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u38	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Request to proceed to the agenda, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Because That's all that's going on here... Well, we know there's an election coming up. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Yeah, yeah, yeah. You just left your senses before the election. [[Applause]] And when it comes to translation, I think Mr. Budka should explain himself, because when he was a minister, he released a paedophile who assaulted a child, raped him. He didn't provide surveillance. Apologize for that, because you paedophiles were defending. Thank you very much. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[The ethics committee. It's for the ethics committee.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u39	Thank you very much. Okay, there's been a request for a break. All the others are involved. We will proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of announcing the adjournment of the meeting until 3 p.m. 12, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 309 Members voted. For - 130, against - 177, holding off on 2. The Sejm's motion is denied. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u40	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Investigative to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group - hour 10.15, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 10.30, - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 12, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 12, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 12, - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 13.30, - Infrastructure together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - at 14 p.m., - Health-- hour. 14, - Inquiry to examine the regularity and legality of operations and the negligence and omissions of public authorities and institutions in ensuring the revenue of the Treasury in respect of the tax on goods and services and excise duties between December 2007 and November 2015 - at 14, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 14, - Public Finance - hour. 15, - Health-- hour. 15, - Culture and Media - hour 17 a.m. 18, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 20. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Parkinson's disease - hour 11, - Parliamentary Group for: The future of the European Union at 3 p.m. 12, - Parliamentary Mining and Energy Team - hour 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Oncology - hour 14, - Parliamentary Animal Friends Team - h.m. 16. The Polish Film Institute and the Sejm Committee of Culture and Media invite to a meeting with filmmakers and to a screening of the film entitled: The pardon, which will take place today, 15 May 2019, in the conference room. Jack Kuronia, building F, at 3 p.m. 7:30. Thank you. [[The presidency includes Deputy Marshal of the Seym Beata Mazurek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u41	Thank you very much. [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please move the calls to the cocksuckers. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on the Development Fund for public service bus services (print No 3411). I ask the Minister of Infrastructure of Mr Andrzej Adamczyk to present the justification for the bill. [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please transfer your calls to the cockroaches. Give a chance to hear the reasons for those who are interested in this subject.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u42	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo! I have the honour to present a government draft law on the Development Fund for public service bus services. Today we present a bill that will allow Poles to recover important bus connections. It is an element - I cannot not say it - of fighting the rule of law and justice against the exclusion of communication. I say this with full awareness, because today, the exclusion of communication is a problem of hundreds, thousands, millions of Poles who, in our actions, look to the hope of changing their situation when it comes to mobility when it comes to moving on to the most important issues of life: trips and return to their places of residence. Our fight against communication exclusion in road transport is based on two pillars. The first is the Self-Government Road Fund. This fund already works for local communities. For 10 years we will help local governments with the amount of PLN 36 billion. I'm talking about the Self-Government Road Fund. The first funds have already gone to individual voivodships. All in order for the standard of life throughout Poland to improve systematically. Everyone in Poland has the right to access good and safe infrastructure regardless of which part of the country it comes from. The Fund for Self-Government Roads is thousands, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of kilometres of modern local roads throughout Poland, especially safe roads, predictable roads. Local authorities can also benefit from funding today, which could not afford to do so before. We have enabled local governments to carry out multiannual investments so that actions can be planned more in advance. The Self-Government Road Fund is therefore a strong pillar of the government's fight against communication exclusion. The second pillar is the development fund for bus transport, which we hope to establish after the adoption of the bill presented. For many years, Poland has been convinced that only those bus connections that are profitable and profitable are needed. It was believed that the invisible hand of the market is able to lead to the elimination of white spots on the map of Poland. The accidents of recent years, the experiences of recent years have shown that this is a wrong approach, it was a wrong approach. Other bus connections were cancelled because the operators were unable to generate profit from this activity, while local authorities alarmed that more and more towns were deprived of collective transport. The inhabitants of Polish towns, powiats and communes struggled with increasing communication exclusion. The exclusion of communication has a very practical, human and daily dimension. The exclusion of communication is a lack of access to work, difficulties in getting to school, to a doctor, to friends, to a family, a sense of powerlessness and leaving the country, which should take care of these matters. Disregarding the problem of communication exclusion, disregarding the needs of the smaller townspeople is a sad picture of previous governments. We're changing that today. Today, you finally take responsibility for the fight against communication exclusion. That is why we are creating a fund that will finance local bus connections, we are creating a development fund for bus transport, with the full conviction that we are gaining at every meeting with the people of our country in every region of the country. This belief that Poland should be built equal opportunities, Poland sustainable development, Poland where no one feels excluded because of the region of origin or the wealth of the wallet. Because Poland is one and that is what we keep saying. In every corner of our country, in every municipality, Poles live in each district and they have the right to feel that the Polish state remembers each one of them. The ambitions and life plans of every citizen of our country are unique. The Polish State cannot stand in the way and block their implementation. Politicians must therefore create a law that will make it easier for Poles from every region of the country to realize their plans and dreams. This is what we should always do as politicians in order to make life easier for the citizens of our country step by step. We want Poles in every region of the country to have good access to collective transport. In this way, we will contribute to the creation of new jobs, investment and sustainable development. We'll also serve the environment eventually. The fight against communication exclusion is also an effort to ensure that the car is not the only means of transport available in smaller and small towns. A coherent, predictable and user-friendly network of bus connections will enable more and more people to opt out of car transport. In order for such networks to arise, we are setting up a development fund for bus transport. Only this year will we help local authorities starting bus connections with the amount of PLN 300 million. In the following years it will amount to PLN 800 million. The grant will be granted in the form of a subsidy to the amount of the deficit of individual public utility lines. The sources of funding for this fund - and I ask you very much, ladies and gentlemen, the High House, and all of you, are: Fuel fee, that's a contribution to the fuel charge. No: increased fuel charge, no: another fee imposed on drivers. The fuel levy, which has been practically unchanged and unchanged for years, is charged. How will this work in this case? The revenue from the fuel levy will be increased by reducing revenue to the State budget for excise duties. By reducing revenue to the State budget for excise duties. Therefore, the funding of the bus development fund by means of the fuel levy will not reduce revenues to the National Road Fund and the Railway Fund. These sizes will not be affected. Neither the driver nor the National Road Fund nor the Railway Fund will be affected. The second component is the issue fee. The total amount of the issue fee shall not be amended. The amendment concerns the redirection of part of the revenue from this levy from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management and the Low-carbon Transport Fund to the Bus Development Fund. And I would like to ask, as regards what is very clear here, that this be the subject of a possible discussion, a debate, so that there is no need for further clarification as to the fact that the issue fee will be increased, that the subsequent rules which will introduce the Law and Justice will create any further burdens. Finally, it's a substitute fee. This is a substitute fee paid by an entity pursuing a national indicative objective, i.e. a trader engaged in an economic activity in the manufacture, import or acquisition of liquid fuels or liquid biofuels within the Community, where the entity has not fully achieved its national indicative objective. Another thing. State budget. It's kind of natural. The fund will also consist of revenue from penalties, fines, fees and general permits of the road transport inspector, as well as the provincial inspectors. At present, these revenues constitute revenue from the State budget. And I would like to escape further arguments that will appear in the discussion: there will be no plan to impose penalties, there will be no plan to impose penalties on truck drivers, all other drivers. We do not repeat the scenario, as we remember, Minister Vincent-Rostowski, who assumed in the draft budget that PLN 1600 million would enter the state budget due to the use of a large number of cameras. We've described revenue, revenue from these penalties to the fund based on the average of recent years. And this average of the last few years we've been eating. The breakdown of funds in a given financial year per voivodship will be carried out under the Regulation of the Council of Ministers on the allocation of funds of the Fund. By the end of 2021, which is extremely important, the distribution criteria will be: the area of the voivodship, the number of its inhabitants, the gross domestic product value and the meeting of the transport needs of the community. From 2022 onwards, the funds of the Fund will be allocated on the basis of operating work on public utility lines as defined in the transport plans of the various voivodships, excluding public transport. We can therefore talk about a transition period that will end in 2021. Until then, a surcharge of up to 1 PLN to 1 tonne-kilometre will apply. Repeat: up to 1 PLN to 1 car kilometer. We want this amount to be an incentive for local authorities to start transport where necessary is the most urgent. Later, this amount will not exceed 80 gr. Later, I mean. After 2021 What is the condition for the fund to be paid? The fund's contribution will be to finance a deficit amount on a single line of general interest of not less than 10% from the organiser's own resources. and the conclusion of a contract for the provision of public collective transport services. So I point out very clearly here: not as we originally proposed in the public debate prior to the submission of the project to the Council of Ministers, 30% from the local government, but 10% from the government. We have significantly reduced this liquidity threshold by the local government. The Voivodeship will control the manner and timeliness of the performance of the task for which the payment has been granted. The services of the voivodships will also determine whether the calculation of the aid has been carried out correctly in terms of compliance with the aid agreement. The mechanism of operation of the Fund is therefore simple: local authorities will start bus lines by concluding a contract for transport services with entrepreneurs, then report to the voivods what amount of aid is necessary to cover the deficit. We hope that, over time, running bus lines will become more profitable. This can only be achieved by repeating courses and a good route arrangement. The inhabitants of a given municipality or district will be more likely to board a bus or bus when they find that it will stay with them for longer, on the same route and during the same hours. Then money from the budget that has so far been spent on this line, where the deficit has been regulated, can be used to create another line. Experience shows that, where bus transport was launched on deficit lines, these deficit lines were very often turned into deficit lines, because passengers returned as they did today, to the railroad, to the bus, to the bus lines. [[Deficit in deficit?]] High Izbo! In order to extract Polish bus services from the collapse to eliminate white transport spots on the map of Poland, in order to combat the exclusion of transport, we propose the creation of a development fund for bus transport. I hope that his uprising will be supported by all parliamentarians. Of course we are. [[♪ The bell ♪]] ready, we are waiting for a debate, we are waiting for a discussion, but as I said, I hope that the creation of this fund will be supported by all parliamentarians. All of us politicians should care about improving the standard of living of the people of our country. And I am sure that this is the case, that each of us in this Chamber, each of us present during the debate at the Committee on Infrastructure has one goal: to improve living conditions in our country. Therefore, I am convinced that the Sejm will support the government bill enabling hundreds of new bus connections to be launched throughout Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u43	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen! Today's session is attended by the President of the Senate of the Czech Republic, Mr Jaroslav Kubera and his delegation, [[Applause]] visiting Poland officially at the invitation of the Senate Marshal Mr Stanisław Karczewski. We cordially welcome the honored guests. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Bogdan Rzońc, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u44	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We are beginning to discuss a very important bill that eliminates one of the most embarrassing parts of the functioning of public life. Namely, they are unfortunately in Polish municipalities, in Polish counties, in Poland places, villages, villages and municipalities, where no public transport reaches. And not only on Sunday and Saturday, but also on weekdays. In short, it happened that where there are profitable lines, there are private carriers, who are of course successful and who support the given lines, but there are places where these courses are not profitable, so public transport is not. Therefore, the Government of Law and Justice, in principle in the person of Minister Andrzej Adamczyk, has prepared for a major political discussion, which has been taking place since the beginning of this year, one of the solutions of crucial importance. After the implementation of this bill, after it has been passed, I hope that all your Members will be so that local governments, i.e. municipalities within a given district, together with the oldities, mayors, will be able to designate routes which are now not operated by any operator, service provider, transport service provider, public service provider. In other words, it will no longer be so that on weekdays or Saturdays or Sundays someone will not be able to get public transport to school, church, shop, hospital. It is possible, after government intervention, that after the selection of the carrier by local authorities, after the emergence of new lines will be granted an additional payment from the State budget to the carrier chosen by the local authorities. This will be an additional payment, which, of course, will be voted by the High Sejm in respect of 1 km. To put it simply, the operator chosen by the district or connected communal and district authorities will be able to apply to the voivodeship at the end of the month after presenting the relevant documents for the reimbursement of travel costs on the route designated by the local authority of new communication lines. It's gonna be okay. 1 zł. We will see what the final stage of this work will be. Today, the Committee on Infrastructure at 3 p.m. 14 transparently, together with other representatives of local authorities, will take care of this project. I invite all of you to discuss this. The crucial importance of this bill is enormous. The budget of the State is already dedicated for this year to the operation of these new services. The creation under this bill, in the future of the law, of an appropriate fund, which will fund public transport funds, which are an absolutely essential element of the functioning of social life in municipalities, powiats, in particular those poorest, sometimes slightly distant from socio-economic life centers. Therefore, the noble intentions themselves follow this bill, and I do not believe that anyone will try in a critical way, disappointing this project to speak on this subject, unless, because of the fact that we are again resolving a problem that has raised this problem over the years and has not been solved. Please state that the Act regulates matters relating to the creation and operation of a public service bus development fund and the principle of funding from the Fund for the execution of the tasks of its public public transport organisers. These organizers of public collective transport in municipalities, districts are local governments and they cannot cope with it because they lack financial resources. In view of the above, the government, as it stands in a good country, intervenes in this area by coming to the aid of local governments. As far as I know, there is a very positive reaction of local governments to such government intervention as this law. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I strongly recommend further proceding the draft Print Act No 3411. I hope that even at this meeting of the Sejm, you will all vote in favour of this very good solution from the presentation of the Government of Law and Justice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u45	Thank you, sir. Mr Stanisław Żmijan, PO-KO, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u46	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Basically, you can't fix one thing by destroying the other. I'm gonna ask you a few questions. [[Applause]] Because the development fund for bus services is created by means of an issue fee - 5% , replacement fee - 55% , fuel charge - 4%. Minister! Did you do the road show? If so, why did you dissuade Minister Shamit? Did you implement the railway fund? If so, why did you dissuade Minister Stomma? If you've implemented the housing fund, why did you dissuade Minister Smolinski? If you were trying to fix other problems, such as the problem of the vehicle control station, why did you dissuade Minister Chodkiewicz? [[Applause]] Minister! Of course, this diagnosis is appropriate, there is a serious problem of communication exclusion, but this law does not solve this problem in any way. So, who is it? You're going to resign now that it's been two months since how did Minister Weber take office? Time, Minister, for you. Whatever you touch, you just ruin everything. [[Applause]] The project submitted is nothing more than a failed attempt to solve this important social problem. Those who are to organize the process of restoring railway lines, namely local governments, were ignored. Those who will perform the tasks were ignored. In fact, you only want to restore those lines that have been dead for at least three months, and what about those where local governments are heroically operating and companies are suffering losses? Here these units, these local governments will not be able to apply. What about a county like Lipno, who adds to other tasks, doesn't perform other important tasks in his local government? He won't be able to apply either. It is simply a legislative initiative prepared in the atmosphere of the electoral fever, it is a political initiative. Mr Jarosław Kaczyński has announced a five, and one of the points of this five is the exclusion of communication, Prime Minister Morawiecki has repeated this, and Minister Adamczyk has quickly prepared without consultation a draft law that ignores those who will do so. Secondly, there are no analyses. You have not shown that this amount of resources will solve the problem. And there are independent analyses that show that you need at least twice as much resources to solve this problem at an elementary, decent level. This project is also affected by the following drawbacks. After all, if companies undertake this task, at some decent level above all the safety of passengers, i.e. investment. How can a potential carrier invest when you propose in this bill that it will be annual contracts? It's just a virtual proposition. My club is very critical of this project. Please note the procedure: this morning we have our first reading, and at hours. 20 on the schedule we have a second reading. Where is the time for an in-depth debate, analysis, [[Applause]] where is the participation of the social side? It can't be. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's a good project. My club will decide on the final position depending on the course of work on this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u47	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz Poselski Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u48	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Kukiz Club15 vis-à-vis the government's draft law on the Development Fund for public service bus services. The repair of the public transport system was announced by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki at the local government convention. The government has promised to double the funds for municipalities that will want to rebuild bus connections. So? Like in the anecdote, he promised, but he didn't give anything. In October Ub. The government also announced that it would allocate several billion zlotys to the construction of railway lines to small towns under the "Kolew+" programme. The whole project was only positive, or actually negative, for ministerial officials who continue to define the detailed rules for the operation of the programme and the timetable for its implementation. The bill under review is controversial. The government wants to take some of the revenue from the fuel levy, the emission levy, the biofuel levy, the fines and the penalties imposed by the Chief Road Transport Inspector. I suspect that this will increase the intensity of the work of this institution and it will mostly take care of the revenue of the bus fund. The draft law states that the development of mergers will depend on the contribution of the municipalities themselves - may not be less than 10%. Perhaps that is right, because it is up to the local authorities to define the communication needs in their territory, but we are dealing with another extension of the tasks financed by these units. Someone's gonna have to take those measures. If it is assumed that the development of bus connections will take place in so-called areas. the exclusion of communication, i.e. the poor and the poorer, thus reducing potential opportunities to invest in other needs, e.g. construction of a sewerage network. The Law restoring bus connections was to enter into force at the turn of April and May. He won't come in for any reason: lack of money to execute it. The later, the better for the budget. But it doesn't matter to the PiS. It's about heating, catching a bunny, but not catching it. The rulers and Members of the PiS have no idea of the real costs of this project, this solution. It'll be like the Wadowices. The previous mayor created free communication in the separate part of the commune for several hundred thousand zlotys a year. The buses were driving the air, and today the mayor of PiS is giving up the idea of his predecessor. And you have to say it's the right thing to do. Why drive air? It is better to rent taxis for these several or dozen passengers or reduce - and this will be the best solution - fiscal loads, e.g. VAT or gas excise. Then the business will be profitable and there will be no need to create such communication prosthetics. You also bring back what you've contributed to the fall, e.g. by increasing fuel prices and fiscal burdens. [[Applause]] Due to inefficiency, PKS were liquidated in many areas in the last year, including co-managed by Law and Justice, e.g. Gniezno or Zachodniopomorskie. Is this where you're going to restore the connections that you're removing yourself? The government's idea is an attempt to patch up the system that hasn't yet been able to. It is clear that 800 million is not enough for everyone. The criteria for financing are of concern. This is not a corrective concept, but an attempt to please voters. [[Applause]] I don't think it's effective. Someone who suggested to President Kaczyński the idea of restoring bus connections, dropped him not so much cuckoos as a smelly egg. After all, this is a solution that cannot last forever. It generates costs, is inefficient and will promote corruption. This is already the case with the present law on public transport, and the contested law only deepens the pathology in this area. For example, local government units buy buses at a price much higher than the cost of production, as well as at a price higher than the one offered by the producer to other users. This is an example known to the Andrych Minister. Minister Adamczyk, instead of getting excited about this missed solution, would better analyze senseless investments in the resort he manages, e.g. construction of railway stops in places where no one will be served and protested by the inhabitants. The Kukiz Club15 is against this law because it does not solve the problem of communication exclusion, but only deepens the chaos in this area. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u49	Thank you. Mr Krystian Jarubas, Mr PSL - The Union of European Democrats will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u50	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I am pleased to present my position towards the government draft law on the Development Fund for public service bus services, print No 3411. Ladies and gentlemen! The bill we're discussing today was supposed to be a salvation, and it's a proverbial legislative wick. This wick was announced loudly in February, and now it was replaced by the government. Now what? Well, in the case of this project again the maximum is valid since 2015: PiS may even have a good diagnosis, but the implementation is already a disaster, because in fact bus transport in the regions leaves much to be desired. PKS was in the early '90s a colossus on clay legs that just fell over. It is estimated that even a dozen million Poles and Poles affected the exclusion of communication, have no way to reach school, work, hospital or health centre. The diagnosis is therefore correct, but the implementation proposed by the PiS is full of disqualifying errors. Ladies and gentlemen! Error one is melting money. You're telling stories, because first of all, the billions that Mr. PiS' president was talking about, billions, and then 800 million a year. This year it's only 300 million for this purpose, because the bill will come into force in the middle of the year. A pool of resources is just the beginning of trouble. Ladies and gentlemen! Was this project even consulted with experts, and if it was, were the comments made by the experts included in it? I doubt it, because it was actually written by someone who studied planning in the times of the Polish People's Republic. At least that's what it looks like, Mr Kalet, head up. [[Exactly.]] The project assumes that money for individual voivodships will be distributed by the Minister of Infrastructure. In turn, the voivodships will allocate money to organizers of journeys, i.e. local governments. The original project assumed that at least 30% of the amount needed to open the line would have to lay out local governments. After the protests of local governments it was reduced to 10%. That's good, but there's a number of other problems left. First of all, the rule remains that the government pays back every kilometer of zloty, but only for the first 3 years, and then 80 gr. The amount is rigid regardless of the local government and the region, and this is according to specialists the way to nowhere. Why? Sometimes it takes 50 gr per kilometer to organize an efficient transport and connect the workplaces with the population. However, somewhere else this surcharge would have to be paid e.g. 1.50 PLN from a kilometer or a given local authority will not be able to cope with 80 gr of aid. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not enough just to give money, it is necessary to create a mechanism to solve the problem. The problem is also the division of the government cake. Voivodship will not get the same money, the Minister of Infrastructure will magically, today an unknown way will sum up the area of the voivodship, the number of inhabitants and the length of bus lines recorded in the transport plans and on this basis will distribute the money. Interesting. Later, local governments enter the game. Municipalities and powiats will be present in the voivodeship, indicating the length of lines of general interest and the frequency of journeys. What if there's more than enough money? It will decide the order of applications. That means that money can go to the wrong place where it's most needed. They'll go to those who are the fastest. Small counties will fall off. And how do local governments know which lines to run? From his own transport plans. Today, such plans must have districts over 80,000. residents, i.e. less than half, and municipalities over 50,000. inhabitants, less not necessarily, so many of them do not have plans, and this may mean that they will not be able to get plans and money, so the funds will go to larger counties. The inhabitants of Podwarszawskie communes, although they could dream of better communication, are not even half in such a bad situation as for example. residents of Świętokrzyskie Voivodship. That's how it looks, ladies and gentlemen. For example, my family town of Nowy Korczyn. Ladies and gentlemen! Club PSL is in favour of the development of local transport, therefore it will not block the initiative. We will support further work on this project, but the proposal you have tabled is clearly for the amendment. Colleagues, my previous speakers showed the voivodships where the PKS were liquidated not long ago. So, ladies and gentlemen, let's really get to work and work on the committee, because there's still time until tonight. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Great.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u51	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u52	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the government draft law on the Development Fund for public service bus services. Minister! You said this bill was a symbol of the fight against communication exclusion. Unfortunately, Minister, if this law is any symbol of communication exclusion, it is a symbol of the inability of governments to combat communication exclusion and is a dot over i. This bill will not eliminate white spots, moreover: hundreds of millions of zlotys will be issued in a manner, you can say, uneconomic. However, the exclusion of communication is a very serious problem, and it is good that after 3 years at all you have decided to take into account the opposition's voices and start talking about it, because mobility, which is essential for economic development today, is really needed to get to work, a school that represents the development of municipalities. The number of communities that are white spots on the communication map has been dangerously close to 30% in the last three years. I would like the Minister to come out here and explain why - so heroically fighting the exclusion of communications - would lead to the liquidation of the PKS in Gniezno, as was mentioned, and 250 connections that this PKS operated. It's for days. And until November 2018, your piS colleague in Gniezno was an elder. I must say that you have done absolutely nothing to eliminate these white stains and not to bring about the liquidation of the PKS. That's the truth about this fight. Besides, if we look at the PKS in Krosno, which has eliminated another colleague of yours from Law and Justice, we can say that this is a constant trend. In Krosno, this should even be prosecutorial proceedings, because the sale of assets also raises great doubts. This bill will not be effective for many reasons. Firstly, it ignores the fact that this operation of individual lines must take place, I would say, within the scope of the whole communication system. Although the Act refers to communication plans, it already prefers municipalities in the distribution of funds, which means that e.g. communication relationships are second in place. Moreover, the Act does not introduce any mechanisms that would give rise to integration, and we know that these communication problems - not only these - need to be solved together and the municipalities are unable to bear these burdens. After all, we already know today that non-profitable connections are being financed by municipalities, and this is a serious burden on their budgets, and you basically skipped the local government with a broad arc as regards the discussion on this law. This community's own contribution... Minister! After all, white spots are created just where there is no economic development. This is usually due to the fact that these municipalities are quite poor, and you still require your own contribution from them. After all, it will be a millstone around the neck of the communes. If they want to finance it, they'll run out of other important social goals again. It is indeed brilliant that even municipalities, which have a difficult financial situation, should additionally charge the payment. Importantly, if there are no budget resources and you do not transfer them by the end of the year, the municipalities will not get the funds at all, which means that at the end of the municipality they will have to pay for it. And you think the municipalities are gonna risk you not paying them, and they're gonna have to pay that extra? This is ridiculous. You require that the communication lines do not function 3 months before the Act enters into force. I can already imagine that in at least several municipalities in Poland the connections will be closed so that there will be a break and that later they will be restarted with funding. I don't know if that's the development and elimination of white spots. Another thing. You can see the bankster's hand in general, because - as in the advert of Morawiecki's bank - the capital is 800 million, but already with small letters, that maximum 80 gr, means it can be 1 gr, 2 gr or 5 gr. Second, that's 10%. They're gonna have to add to the communes. I have to say, there's no such thing here, I'd say, accuracy in communication. Minister, how much exactly will the municipalities be able to count on? You're not gonna answer that question here. Of course, funding is a completely separate matter. That's 300 million, not 800 million, and the way of financing is like, Minister, a financial pyramid. These are the same measures you've promised for something else before, so I don't know. [[♪ The bell ♪]] where you're gonna get that money. Of course, we're talking about the issue fee and environmental protection measures, etc. One last thing, Marshal. An increase in the replacement amount by 40% will result in an increase in the price of energy and this will be the real result of this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u53	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Richard Petru, near Now!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u54	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's easy to throw catchy passwords at political conventions because it doesn't cost anything. It is also easy to improve people's living conditions, because it also costs nothing. But the stairs start when you have to finance those promises and just take the money away from someone. Before someone else's money is spent nonchalantly, you have to ask yourself whether this money could not be spent otherwise. The answer is simple: you can. For PLN 800 million per year for the financing of transport, 35 train depots could be purchased each year, for which the Dolnośląskie Railways recently had to give up due to the lack of funds. I will remind you that in the Lower Silesian Seym, PiS ruled, which was planning to buy 11 trains for 200 million PLN and had to give up this purchase because the offer turned out to be too expensive. Look, for 1 billion zlotys, you could buy 1 000 a year. long-distance coaches, but they won't, because the money will be spent on non-profit bus connections. Instead of improving infrastructure, instead of betting on new rail connections, on a new rolling stock, the whole couple goes into a transfer of money without a prospect of constant improvement. Minister! If you spend money with that light hand, I have a few questions. Why isn't there any money for repairs standing on Pendolino's sidewalk? Why doesn't he have money to renegotiate S3 road contracts and A1 motorway? The contractors have come down from them, and we're already de facto a few years behind. Why was there no money to index contracts for the execution of the Wrocław - Poznań railway line? The renovation has been going on for over 3 years, over a year we are behind schedule. Why are the renovations of the line Warsaw - Poznań and Warsaw - Lublin delayed? In any case, we're at least one year behind schedule. Ladies and gentlemen, they're delaying because there's no money. All the money goes to Kaczyński's five. Each dollar spent on 500+ means less gold for health care and no hope for shorter queues. Each zloty spent on the thirteenth pension means a zloty less on salaries for teachers. Each zloty spent on bus financing means less zloty for road construction or railway rolling stock. This is a simple dependence: the more social programmes, the less investment. Some may feel that the budget is bottomless, that you can infinitely owe yourself, that you can live at the expense of future generations. It's an illusion of all populists, both red and brown. PiS social programs kill dreams of prosperous, developing Poland. They will strike with double force at Polish entrepreneurs, Polish middle class, students and future pensioners. You'll remember my words. The Kaczyński Five means a test for the entrepreneur. The clerk will decide if you're an entrepreneur or if you're going on a job. The Kaczyński Five means higher contributions to the ZUS. Everyone will now pay contributions without a limit, no matter how much they earn. The Kaczyński Five means that all contracts for works and jobs are deleted. The Kaczynski Five means that anyone who's been saving money at OFE gets 15%. lower pension. PKS, soda powder, only state companies, fully obedient TV journal, surveillance and wiretapping - this is your world, your world of dreams, a world that can easily control... [[But there's no TV log, there's news.]] ...the world in which the party rules, and the nation obeys. The easiest way is to enslave society, making it dependent - especially financially. This country is going to decide how much and what you're going to get for. In such a country it is best to obey, for obedience will be a reward. We don't want a world like this. We want Poland, in which everyone can develop as he wants, Poland, in which one can think, work and create, Poland, in which initiative and entrepreneurship are not punished with further taxes, Poland, which invests rather than which spends nonchalantly, Poland in which one thinks about strength and the future, not about party nominations and power here and now, for its own. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I move that this law be rejected at first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u55	I would now like to ask the floor of Małgorzata Zwierzan, Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u56	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position towards the Government's draft law on the Development Fund for public service bus services, print No 3411. This project regulates matters related to the creation and operation of a special fund, from which funds will be financed to restore local bus connections. This solution is intended to support local government units as organisers of public collective transport in fulfilling one of their own tasks. This applies to lines that have not been in operation for at least 3 months. The development fund for bus transport to be set up in the formula of the special purpose fund will be the responsibility of the minister responsible for transport. The proceeds to the fund will come from the state budget, the proceeds from the issue fee, the substitute fee, the fuel levy, the proceeds from penalties, fines, the fees charged by the Chief Inspector of Road Transport and the Provincial Road Transport Inspectors, as well as the permits issued by those authorities. In 2019 the level of funding of the fund's tasks will be PLN 300 million and in the following years PLN 800 million. The allocation of funds by regulation will be determined by the Council of Ministers. The aid will be granted in the form of a subsidy to the deficit amount of a single public service line. The project includes mechanisms to ensure uniform conditions for receiving aid. This solution is part of a package called the PiS 5 announced in March this year. The project we are looking at is another one, right after the 13th pension and the 500+ programme, which will include all children since July this year as an example of fulfilling their promises by the United Right Government, not just those electoral ones. The solution contained in the project in my opinion will have a significant impact on equalising social opportunities. Currently, in Poland there is a problem with ensuring that villagers and smaller towns can participate equally in public and social life. People living in towns far away from the centres of larger agglomerations often do not have free access to their infrastructure. The elimination of unprofitable bus connections carried out by private carriers and the lack of sufficient resources to maintain public lines make often the only possible form of transport to work, school or even doctor is their own car for these people. As we know, not all of the various reasons have the opportunity to use this form of transport. I am convinced that the funding provided for under these regulations for the development of coach transport will make normal everyday life easier for many Poles. About Free and Solidarni supports the presented project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u57	Thank you very much. Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of you like to join the list of people asking questions? I can't see. I'm closing the list. The first question will be asked by Mr Tomasz Nowak, PO-KO. Question time is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u58	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Then you have to be suicidal. If you run a company, this company counts its income, wonders what to do with the line that causes deficits, and sees that according to the list that Google gives - just look today - car km costs at the moment 5 10% Of these 5 zlotys can pay the government extra, right? So it's going to be PLN 1.50. Do you know how much it costs to operate a driver in this car? 1.60 zł. So where's the rest of the money? Where's the money to rebuild infrastructure, equipment, running a company like PKS? This is the election humbug and that's it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u59	The question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u60	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Bus Development Fund - a loud, noisy name. I would like to ask you whether you consulted this draft law with local governments. There are communal relationships in Silesia. As soon as PKS were wound up, the municipalities joined together and formed communal unions. Today, they are somehow financing these unprofitable transports between these cities. I would like to ask you whether the district of więsławski, whether the district of rybnicki, or cities on the rights of the county accumulated in the communal union, i.e. Hawks-Zdrój, Żory, Czerwionka-Leszczyny, Rydultowy, Radlin, will receive this funding. Will they be able to reach for this money? Will the municipalities that once belonged to this union, but due to the lack of funds, come out of this relationship, be able to reach for these funds? Are you aware that the price for cars per kilometer in the case of the communication carried out today is about PLN 4.7? Do you have such simulations? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Who made these for you? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u61	The question is asked by Mrs Joann Frydrych, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u62	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, A short story about the development of PKS transport and the promises of PiS in Krosno. The Krosnieński Starosta from PiS received from the State Treasury for free. In 2013, the Starosta of PiS sold all PKS Krosno's assets for just over 400 thousand. zł, not satisfying employees' claims. The new owner divided PKS into companies, and only one property sold for about PLN 4 million. Prime Minister Beata Szydło promised to help PKS employees recover their outstanding salaries. Where did she promise? In the hall of Fr. Pio by the church oo. Capuchin. So? Nothing. In this case, I have personally sent over 20 letters, including to Prime Minister Beata Szydło. Unfortunately, I didn't get a specific answer. It's been four years. You promised and you cheated. And my question: Will PKS employees in Krosno be able to claim their debts from the newly created fund? What would have to happen if your promises were made by the highest officials in the state, [[♪ The bell ♪]] In addition, in the majesty of the Church, were they fulfilled? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u63	The question is asked by Michał Szczerba, PO-KO. There isn't. The question is asked by Marek Owa, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u64	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is not true that transports are not carried out in Poland. I will give you an example of a number of municipalities that carry out transport services in trade unions and pay extra. They don't pay 80 gr or 1 PLN. Bones and Sparrows pay 3.26 extra, Andrychów pay 2.80 , communication relationship of municipalities in Olkusz, these are four municipalities - 2,14 , communal union in Chrzanów, three municipalities per five municipalities - 3,20, Oświęcim - 3,60 . These are real needs when it comes to funding so that communication can be at a good level. Telling the Minister that we will pay 1 PLN today, and in the future we will pay 80 pennies that we will only require 10% participation of own commune this is a fairy tale for suckers, quoting a classic. It's just gonna happen, Minister, it's not gonna work. If you want to have an effective tool, you have to allocate 3 zlotys, [[♪ The bell ♪]] because these are the real deficits in the case of transport. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u65	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u66	Minister! This project is accompanied by a naive belief that a rachitic grant will restore an area that is not deficit-free, that there will be connections in completely deficit areas. It's not gonna work. Already after the criteria of division you can see this misunderstanding of the nature of the outermost areas, where unfortunately it will be worse. There are no ideas for sharing economy here. There are no ideas for a communication voucher addressed to a particular needy. There is no idea of local problem solving through the strength of local communities, because this is how these problems are solved in Western Europe, through some global grants, in terms of comprehensive solutions that take into account a number of possibilities, including for example. electronic reporting of transport needs. You want non-compliant methods that are no longer adequate, [[♪ The bell ♪]] solve the contemporary problem. I'm afraid that won't work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u67	Thank you, sir. The question is asked by Mr Jan Warrzecha, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u68	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! According to the Institute for Rural Development and Agriculture of the Polish Academy of Sciences, approx. 26% there is no public communication, and in some parts of central and north-eastern Poland - up to 50%. That is why this bill is very desirable. I am very surprised by the representative of the Polish People's Party that he calls it a wick. I, on the other hand, would like to ask, Minister, about the exact role of the county in implementing this law. Of course, the municipality is interested in this, but agreements between municipalities and even between districts will probably be needed. I hope that in further readings we will consider how to make money not go to those wealthy local governments that can afford public transport because of income per capita. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the other thing. What to do to solve a holiday case...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u69	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u70	...when students don't use communication? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u71	Thank you, sir. The question is asked by Mr Grzegorz July, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u72	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I don't have any illusions. Of course, this bill will be passed because it is one of those key issues in the so-called. Five Moravians. On the other hand, Minister, I have the following questions. If you push this, because these one-year subsidies, I'm talking about local government, they don't really allow local governments to plan it, but can't you do that for more than one year? I'm saying as a self-government officer, that's a problem. The second thing is this 3-month deadline. There are carriers who just barely breathe, and instead of strengthening them in the local government, because we're still paying them extra in these local governments... They have to be eliminated in order to get more subsidies at all. I don't know if that makes sense. And the third specific Małopolskie question. Is it possible to finance the so-called project from this project as part of the public service remit. cross-border bus, e.g. New Fair - Zakopane - Suchá Hora or other, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which voivodship would like to conduct with Slovak partners? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u73	Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, at the gallery, we're being listened to by a group of Caritas from Turku. We welcome our guests very warmly. [[Applause]] I ask you to ask Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u74	Thank you, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Should the proposed submission not be supplemented by specific requirements requiring local authorities to coordinate the public transport plan within their territorial jurisdiction and only on this basis should the necessary network of connections be established to ensure a reduction of communication exclusion be established? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u75	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Zdzisław Gawlik, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u76	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister spoke about the objectives of this law, about the fact that Poles will be able to benefit from transport to a greater extent than before. You said that this law was part of the fight against communication exclusion. Minister, there's only one problem, just a question: I'm checking. In 2008, the municipalisation law was passed, the privatisation and commercialisation law was amended and the municipalisation was allowed. One of these companies was PKS Krosno, which was mentioned here many times today. It's tens of millions of zlotys managed by an old lady from PiS and the PiS authorities. The place where the PKS is, many speakers have spoken, and what is left of the PKS. Several tens of millions of zlotys have been squandered and there is nothing, there is no fight against exclusion. If that's what you're gonna do, even if there's good slogans, it's not gonna work. There is a need to change the approach to the issue. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And get really into work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u77	Thank you, sir. The question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u78	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm really glad we're investigating this bill. As a self-government officer, I met with the voices of the residents concerning the liquidation of the line and thus the impossibility of accessing a doctor, the impossibility of commuting to work, so it is necessary to draft a bill. However, I admit that many transport companies have turned to me, and I have been flooded with questions about the rules of payment. First of all, we have suburban courses, long-distance courses, and the question is whether there will be money to recreate these courses or whether it is only counted for a car-kilometre at the current courses. Second question. Can the amount envisaged be increased? The point is that we have various costs, otherwise it is in the Mazowieckie voivodship, otherwise it is in the Łódź voivodship, there are other costs of the car km, there are different prices. Wouldn't it be here? [[♪ The bell ♪]] any other payment relationship? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u79	Thank you, sir. The question is asked by Anna Paluch, Law and Justice. There isn't. The question is asked by Marek Wójcik, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u80	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Bus support is an important issue, but the problem is in detail. Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of These are municipalities, inter-gminne unions, county-gminne unions, powiats, county associations and voivodships. Unfortunately, the bill skips the special law created by the Upper Silesian-Załębian metropolitan union, which since 1 January 2019 is the organizer of public transport in the area of 41 communes in the Silesian voivodeship. Minister, these are often municipalities, which are far from the centre of the metropolis, municipalities which are in financial difficulties and connections in their territory and between them also need support. I'm sure the draft law should be supplemented by a metropolitan union. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm asking for the Minister's position on this matter. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u81	Thank you, sir. The question is asked by Mr Stefan Romecki, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u82	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen at the gallery! I am a Member of Koszalin soil. I often go to different municipalities, villages in our district. Let me add that our district is made up in most of the villages that are inexpensive, popegeeric. Often in these towns people get intervention jobs, unfortunately, they can't take them because they don't have a way to get there. In the summer they'll take the scooter, the bike, and they'll get there somehow. I have a question for the government. Why our region, i.e. Koszalin, Słupsk, Sławno, Darłowo, Kołobrzeg, Białogard or Świdwin, was excluded from the railway connections in the afternoon and night and vice versa, from the connections from Warsaw to Koszalin? In order to be in Warsaw in the morning, people have to go to work in business, to study the day before, and these are additional costs, such as accommodation costs. Whether the Ministry of Infrastructure will restore communication from our district to Warsaw and back to Koszalin. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u83	Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u84	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is essential to ensure that Poles have access to extensive public transport, but you, as the PiS, return to this problem only in the election campaign. You don't really want to help the Poles, you just want to pursue your political interests. Many times in my interpellations or speeches I have raised the need to increase the availability of public transport in the Podlaskie voivodship. It is a pity, however, that PiS is inefficiently taking on the solution to such a serious problem, which is the exclusion of communication cities and villages. The solutions proposed in this Act are controversial because of: firstly, low subsidies, secondly, complicated application procedures and thirdly, not granting support in the long term. However, if you introduce this law, I would like to know: How many connections will be restored in the Podlaskie Voivodeship and what will these connections be? Will the bill bring the calls back to [[♪ The bell ♪]] small villages like Vera or Zubki, and when will that happen? Please respond in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u85	Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u86	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am aware how difficult it is to identify the social consequences of not being able to get from small, transport- excluded towns to health care institutions, educational institutions, workplaces, cultural institutions, offices, courts and other public institutions. However, I would like to ask: Is monitoring of changes in this area envisaged after implementation of the law? One point to Mr Petru. I do not recall you doing anything to eliminate the communist system in Poland. You have no moral right to instruct those who have paid with freedom and health for changing the system. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u87	Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u88	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I think that I am one of this, in my opinion, definitely dominant group of Members who are very satisfied with adopting the bill so expected by our society. We have been able to see this as Members, meeting with the people, and we see it on a daily basis - the problem of communication exclusion is very often discussed at these meetings and people expect this law. My question is: What kind of legislation creates mechanisms for funds to go to local governments with the worst public collective transport network, rather than the most dynamic ones in the reporting of projects with more experience in this area and usually a better network of connections? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u89	I am very pleased to welcome a group of students from Włocławka together with the carers who are here at the invitation of Mrs Joanna Borowiak. [[Applause]] We greet the students very much. Now, please, Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u90	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The exclusion of communication is an important social challenge, especially on the example of such a voivodship as mine, Warmia-Mazurskie, Podlaskie, where we have small density, large territory, long distances. And here's the question: Don't you have to look at it completely? So, first of all, do we not need a proper bill on collective communication, which will include the possibility of rational use of, for example, gimbuses? Gimbuses work, drive, travel to remote areas many times, and in fact the inhabitants cannot use them. It's not always filled, and we can rationalize it. Another issue is the very rigid rates in the country's draft. Question: "Is this where you take into account price differences, fuel differences?" Because they will change and this is also indicated by the Jagiellonian Club. And last question - local governments, for large subsidies. Unfortunately, local governments [[♪ The bell ♪]] They're not gonna make it. They need an extra fund here. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u91	Thank you. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u92	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The faith of the PiS in the doer, or even the divine power of the president, is of course great, but I didn't think so. Because the financial planning not only on the five presidents, but also on other things resembles the living multiplication of fish and bread on the Sea of Galilee, on Lake Geneva, and corresponds exactly to this. Well, we have a financial plan for the national fund, where there's a billion 700 thousand. PLN for non-refundable grants. Of this, the first miracle simultaneously declares a billion four hundred per city roads and a billion per clean air. They say there is neither one, nor the other, and neither is spent. And now, as in the second miracle of Lake Genezaret, we've got 340 million more from low-carbon transport, which is now going to be for pekaes, and it's going to be for electric. [[♪ The bell ♪]] buses.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u93	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u94	There's only one question if I can ask them.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u95	Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u96	Or the power of the unsub... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u97	Thank you, Member. Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u98	Or you're convinced you're gonna lose the election. I think it's the other one. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u99	You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u100	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Today, many local authorities, as well as operators, operate bus transport services with major losses, fight for survival, fight to avoid the exclusion of commuters. This project not only does not support these activities, but vice versa - it forces these entities to eliminate these lines, because there must be 3 months of interruptions in the operation of communication lines, there must be 3 months of gehenna of residents who will not have any communication opportunities, there must be economic and social losses to show that PiS suddenly has a new proposal. What's all this for? After all, Mr Warzecha said that there was 26% Councils excluded. Following such legislation, 70% will be made. disfellowshipped. Why so? [[♪ The bell ♪]] An idea? I'm asking for his change. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u101	Mr Paweł Bańkowski, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u102	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Is it true that this law de facto deprives municipal and district authorities of the functions of transport organizer, which in practice may mean that those counties which are currently effectively fighting the exclusion of transport will have to cancel all bus courses currently implemented and ask for the continuation of their activities of the Marshal of the voivodship, which may - but does not - continue? What bus connections will be restored in the Silesian Voivodeship? What will be the criterion for the distribution of these funds by the Ministry of Infrastructure for the various voivodships? Is it true that the fund will only benefit from transport at voivodship level? What will be the cost of distribution of funds from the fund by the provincial offices and not the marshal offices? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The presidency includes Deputy Marshal of the Seym Beata Mazurek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u103	Thank you. The question is asked by Andrzej Gawron, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u104	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! It is remarkable that in the 21st century small towns are deprived of public transport. Self-governments, which operate in these places, do not have such means as Katowice, Warsaw, Poznań or Wrocław. And it was very good that the Minister declared that we would go down to 10% of these 30% shares of local governments. Because these solutions should apply to small towns so that they, together with small villages, benefit from this funding. I think the opposition, who is so eager to speak here, should remain silent. This opposition caused the PKS to be transformed into companies, to be thrown into a free market and practically 170 companies were owned by the State Treasury, with tragic supervision of the owner. Thank you again, Minister, for dealing with this problem. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u105	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Andrzej Kryj, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u106	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Act on the Development Fund for public service bus services is needed and expected. This is confirmed by the meetings I attended recently, where voters are happy to have their bus lines restored. This is one of the elements that will stop the civilization regression in many regions of Poland - where the exclusion of communication is the participation of many people. Such areas include: Świętokrzyskie voivodship, where most state-owned motor transport companies have fallen. Today transport services are provided only by PKS in Ostrowiec Świętokrzyskie. It is thanks to it that many people in the northern part of the voivodship can reach work, school, doctor or shopping. PKS often supports deficit lines as they are extremely needed. They don't generate profit, but they serve people. The bill speaks of newly formed lines. Maybe you should also think about those lines that [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is the state carrier holding a great deal of effort? Thank you very much. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Latosiński, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u108	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I am very pleased with the Act on the Development Fund for public service bus services. I would remind you that these are tasks for municipalities and the government's financial support for low-cost lines in these municipalities is very desirable. In fact, there are two types of communication exclusion in these places: full and partial. I would like to ask a question about partial exclusion, which is to exclude low-cost lines in late evenings and holidays - free of work, and the question concerns the existing network of connections. Will it be possible to finance an extended line with courses on Christmas days? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u109	Mr Sylvester Tulaev, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u110	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to thank you very warmly for this bill, a project that fights social exclusion, a project that effectively, I believe in it deeply, will eliminate the exclusion of communication in our municipalities and counties. When I visited the gminas of Lubelskie Voivodeship a year ago - and I looked into more than 80 towns - it was the main topic of social and communication exclusion, especially in the district of Lubartów. It was this problem that was emphasized that the inhabitants were excluded, that they could not reach a larger city. That's why I thank you for this bill. Thank you, too, for fulfilling our electoral promises. Law and Justice is the group that keeps its word. What we're announcing, we're doing today... [[The statements are at the end.]] Once again, it is clear that we are effectively fulfilling our electoral promises. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u111	Mr Tadeusz Dziuba, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u112	Minister! I have specific questions about two things. The Voivodeship and the organizer sign an agreement on subsidies. The content of this agreement is based on the proposal and must provide for the contracting of services of general interest, but it may happen that the contract will not be carried out in its entirety and for very different reasons. Hence my first question: Wouldn't it be worthwhile in the law to set some framework for sanctions for non-compliance with the aid agreements. The next issue concerns the second distribution of subsidies where the fund is not used in the region concerned. Will the same criteria for granting aid apply then? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u113	Mr Wiesław Janczyk, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u114	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The bill is absolutely necessary and I will add that during many meetings with residents I met with a very good reception of this idea. Ladies and gentlemen! The elimination of public peccaes many years ago had serious consequences. One of them is that which we will try to regulate with this document, after a huge amount - close to a billion zlotys - has been allocated to subsidies for non-profit courses. On this occasion, I also wanted to draw attention to one detail. Well, when someone buys a monthly ticket in big cities, they use all the travel routes, and in villages, villages, municipalities, a child commuting to school, if he buys a monthly ticket, he only uses the services of one carrier. I would like to ask you to create such a framework and incentives for the Marshals of the voivodship who grant concessions to carriers so that the ticket can be valid at all courses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u115	Mr Paweł Rychlik, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u116	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In recent months, I have attended many meetings with residents. They were also simply village social meetings, on which the main problem raised by the inhabitants was the lack of bus connections. Ladies and gentlemen! In the 21st century in Poland, which belongs to the European Union, in the municipality of Bolesławiec, in the municipality of Łubnice in the district of Wieruszów, young people who want to go to dream classes and schools do not choose these schools because there is no bus connection to them. He chooses schools where the bus goes. In the case of young residents of Wójcin or Bolesławica, they choose schools in Kuczbork instead of choosing good, dream directions in Wieruszów or Wieruszów. Let me just remind you that both in the county of Wieruszów and in the district of Wieruszów [[♪ The bell ♪]] Since 1998, he's ruled... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u117	Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u118	Mr. Marshal! Minister! It is rather a provisional act, which is why there are so many questions from Members of the PiS. Therefore, it does not solve fundamental issues. I would like to show you solutions on an example or at least what you are criticizing without giving you the opportunity to solve these issues. The Starosta of the PiS in Dębica destroyed the PKS in Dębica. I intervened. This PKS has been sold. A private entity appeared in Dębica. The problem of collective communication remains unsolved and young people leave Dębica for schools in other towns. How do you want to solve this problem? Second thing. The line and course will not improve just by talking about lines. If communication is needed, additional courses are also needed. How are you gonna solve this? And a mile away. In one of the municipalities of the Mielecki district in Gawłuszowice the car is 5.8 zł, there is 1 zł surcharge, which is 4.8 zł. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Where's the money gonna be? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u119	Mr Stanisław Żmijan, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u120	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The question is whether, when designing the level of measures, you took into account the municipalities that allowed the passengers to be operated by gimbuses. We know that the deformity of education eliminates middle school, so lines or spots in the area of communication exclusion will arrive. Second question. What has the Technical Supervision Authority done to deserve that it is also taken into account in the financing of this fund? And why since 2022? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u121	Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u122	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's a very flawed bill. The Act on the Bus Transport Fund is undoubtedly a bill resulting from the electoral fever. Traditionally, you did not consult local governments and carriers. [[Voice from the room: That's not true.]] Then show me you did. That is the law, but that is the standard in this House. What's the hurry? Will the local government's contribution to the deficit coverage be 10% ? Do you want to push the task of bus transport into local governments again without funding, and they are to be organizers of the restoration of bus lines? The proposed financial resources are insufficient. And don't smile because there's really nothing to laugh about. It's a very flawed bill, once again. Support will not be given to carriers who... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u123	Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u124	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Granting bus transport is obviously a good idea, but, Minister, the devil is in the details. In what you are proposing, there is such a detail, namely that the more a municipality or district closed down deficit bus lines, the more likely it is now to receive this subsidy, and those municipalities and powiats, which by superhuman effort maintained deficit lines and connections, have less chances because they will no longer have any extra money to add. That's why, Minister, it seems to me that the decommissioning rule is simply here to be thrown out. However, another security may be introduced here, namely that those municipalities and districts which receive a grant may not spend less of their funds than in the previous financial year. So as much as they have spent so far, they also need to spend now, and the government adds additional funds. And then they can optimally plan these transports and communication lines. The current system is... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u125	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u126	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is worth knowing that, at the same time as we are discussing an important problem of communication exclusion, there is a meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, a committee of substance, whose members should be here during the discussion of this important problem. Unfortunately, they are not, and that is the truth when it comes to the organisation of work by a parliamentary majority. However, among the Members of the Law and Justice, there is a belief that the fact that a law has been passed, which has the title of the fund, solves all the problems. I have to say, he's not solving it. This is not enough, it will deepen it, especially since the funding of this law resembles a financial pyramid, because to finance this fund you will use the funds that you have previously promised for other programmes, including those related to the five and earlier electoral promises. I have a question, first of all, why inhabitants of Bielska-Biała, Cieszyna, Żywca, Pszczyny, Czechowice-Dziedzic will not be able to benefit, even though some... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u127	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u128	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to thank you for the bill, which really once again bends over the problems of this poor Poland, the landscaping. And I want to ask the Minister whether, at the request of the residents - because I receive letters that the lines are being closed by local government - it will be possible to restore or extend the route, as well as whether strategic lines can be taken into account, i.e. connection of nearby cities to the airport. There is an example in the Tarnogórski saying, where the local government does not see this problem, and it is a big deal. I would very much ask you to lean on this case and this problem. Once again, Minister, thank you very much for leaning over communication issues in Poland, which the local government cannot fully cope with. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u129	Thank you very much. We cordially welcome guests from elementary school no. 21 in Opole. Greetings, children. [[Applause]] Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u130	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Indeed, the problem taken up in the draft of this law is very important - very important - and in some ways it is good that it has been taken up, but as we all see, this project has been prepared for a cap-paw. The president said the government is doing it. Once, in a commune, there was a saying that the party was headed, the government was in charge, but this government didn't even rule, he administered. Of course, it is important to be clear that the fact that there was no consultation, there are no opinions, only means that this government is afraid of these opinions, especially the opinion of local governments, because if such opinions were, it would find out that these subsidies are just pretend subsidies, because in fact all local governments would have to be treated according to uniform principles and there would have to be much more to be paid. Probably this bill is just gonna be like this again. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It will only remain slogans like medicines free for... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u131	Mrs Hennig-Kloska, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u132	Mr. Marshal! Minister! From 1 May all courses were suspended by PKS Gniezno, so far the main carrier in the district of Gniezno and in the district of September. As a matter of fact, it was a state carrier under the authority of the Minister of Infrastructure. And so I have a question. If the government wants to save public transport, why are the companies under the Minister's authority shutting down their activities? What did you do to turn PKS Gniezno into a modern enterprise, adapted to the realities of the 21st century and the current needs of the inhabitants? In fact, for the last four years you have had all the tools to get this company back on its feet, because in the district of Gniezno, the Old Man of Law and Justice also ruled during that time. So why are you erasing the transport companies in the field? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u133	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Adamczyk, Minister of Infrastructure, will now answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u134	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Marshal disciplines that the speech should be very short due to the long delay in the parliamentary debate, but I cannot ignore the fundamental comments made during this debate. Thank you so much for all those opinions. For those which relate very substantively to the presented project, as well as for those opinions and comments which have been made with a clear indication that the authors have not read the text of the bill, have not read the justification, have read at most one or two press reports. Thank you for all these comments. First of all, I will refer to the opposition's motion to reject the bill. The justification for this proposal is appalling for the author of this proposal himself, because it indicates that the author did not exert himself, did not read the draft law, did not read the justification, but did not know what was really happening in the infrastructure space. If the author of the application for rejection of this draft law argues that the funds necessary for the mobilisation of the fund come from the funds provided for investments, such as railroads, from funds missing from railway line 7 between Warsaw and Lublin or other lines, I would like to inform the author that in a record time we have chosen a new contractor for the modernisation and reconstruction of railway line 7 Warsaw - Lublin, and paid back in the so-called. Meanwhile, the debts of subcontractors, which should be repaid by the general contractor who was removed from construction, for the amount of more than PLN 140 million. It is for the sake of clarity as to the justification and importance of the justification for this proposal. [[What about the schedule?]] The lack of an idea to appear and the lack of an idea to justify the proposal results in precisely this, not other information contained in the justification. One of the many threads that appear here confirms that unfortunately their authors did not read them, did not lean to the end over the justification of the bill. Well, the bill was addressed to public consultation - and I say this to all those who accuse the lack of consultation of this project - about 13 March this year. The project was in consultation for two months. For 2 months, the project was discussed in public space and during the period when more than 225 comments were submitted to the project as a result of the public consultation, which does not mean that each remark concerned a different area, many comments overlaped. Approximately 1/5 of these comments were generated, sent out by local governments and associations of local governments. I think it's very clear here. Mrs Płępek, who insisted that there was no consultation, I answer straight here, I reassure Mrs Małgorzata Płępek and all the Members of the total position: the consultation took place. Ladies and gentlemen! On issues related - yes, I can see, Mr Marshal - with funding and funding for the deficit, once again I will repeat very clearly: the funds of the fund will be used to finance the deficit in bus transport. This does not mean that running bus services will carry passengers who do not buy tickets. Passengers buy tickets, ticket funds are the basis for the calculation of the organisation of transport, they are the income of the entrepreneur. We wish, once again, to finance the deficit in the course of these bus transports. And now one more thing. There were a lot of city-related issues raised here. The bill does not cover cities or metropolitan unions. We dedicate the solutions necessary for small towns today completely separated by communication from centres, from medium-sized, small centres, where there are jobs, where there is a doctor, where schools operate. And for the sake of clarity, to all those who have doubts, I'm telling you that we have an estimate of one car kilometer for the average bus, for the big bus, for the newly purchased bus. In this respect, the appropriate leasing fees were calculated, the labour cost of drivers for small, medium, large buses was calculated, but also for those buses purchased on the market where the purchase cost, the purchase price of this bus is much lower than that of new buses. Ladies and gentlemen! You often emphasize the role of political environments, which are the originators or animators of the projects that Poles are waiting for. You can only be envious that for eight years of your government you have been completely missing the needs of Poles, you have not listened to their expectations, also because your political leadership was completely deaf to the expectations of Poles. And since we are still fighting the exclusion of communication, I would like to inform you that the government's work programming team has included the draft law on rail+ in further legislative work. And whether or not you're going to say that this is an election campaign, after the election campaign, we, unlike you, will continue to fight the exclusion of communications. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u135	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen! Welcome to the tour from Zgierz, which is watching us from the gallery. [[Applause]] The discussion is closed. A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block in a moment. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 mins 03 hours 12 min 08]] I'm reopening the session. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - on the amendment of the Cooperative Law Act, - amending the Act on Employee Capital Plans, - on the amendment of the Act on the Polish Space Agency and the Act on the departments of government administration. The reports shall be in prints No 3449, No 3450 and No 3452 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and heard five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles in discussions on the items on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The Council of Ministers submitted a draft law amending the Penal Code Act and some other laws, print No 3451. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, there was opposition to the proposal to complete the agenda for the first reading of this project. This is, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to complete the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of The adoption of the proposal to supplement the agenda will mean that the Sejm has agreed to the application of the Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: First reading of the government draft law amending the Penal Code Act and some other laws, print No 3451, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? There were 391 Members voted. For - 270, against - 53, 68 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the offer. I propose that the Sejm listen to five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles... [[Voice from the room: Objection.]] ...in the discussion on this item. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I don't hear any objections. [[Objection.]] There's an objection. Then we'll have to vote against it. Mrs Kochan raised an objection. I will put to the vote the proposal I have tabled to the High House. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the proposal to listen to five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in the discussion will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 392 Members voted. For - 232, against - 153, with a hold of 7. The Sejm accepted the offer. We proceed to the examination of item 2 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on the Polish Geological Agency (print No 3378) - continuation. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry for consideration. Questions are asked by Members. Mr Gabriel Lenartowicz, Civic Platform Club. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u136	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Platform Club - the Civic Coalition has applied for the rejection of the project at first reading not only because this bill is a scandalous legal bubble, but above all because it is a law which, when it enters into force, will take the decisions on Poland's raw resources for a narrow, party group of hangovers. This is an outrageous bill. On the draft of this law, which at the same time causes the de facto liquidation of the 100-year-old State Institute of Geology, protests geologists, protests trade unions, and those conducive to Law and Justice. I have a question for the Minister, the author of this bill, as he refers to such slogans raised here: not a private geological agency. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's a question for you, Minister. Maybe you'd like to answer us on what basis. it is formulated. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u137	Thank you, Member. Mr Józef Brynkus, the Kukiz club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u138	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In general, this law does not change much as regards the tasks of the geological service, in relation to the current Geological and Mining Law, but gives an amazing power to the President of the Polish Geological Agency and access to huge money, several hundred million zlotys per year, which can be freely distributed. It also gives unlimited access to Polish geological resources. In the project there is also a curiosity record which determines the conditions of being its president. It may be a Member or a Senator. This indicates that the law is being prepared for a specific person, especially since in practice the President will be irrevocable. The only effective condition for its cancellation will be the failure to report. It's not about not taking it. It's about not not taking it. So will we deal with the repetition of the case of the Łukasiewicz network when the minister preparing the law on it became its chief? I'm asking you to answer that question. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u139	Thank you. The question is asked by Monika Rosa, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u140	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The only purpose of this institution is to create another party agency to draw money. Why such an increase in the cost of living of this agency, three times? How do you respond to the allegations of geologists and people involved in the creation of the existing institute? Please, Minister, don't be afraid, just come out here and answer all these doubts and questions about stubbornness and pulling money out of the next section of the state. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u141	Thank you. The Minister will answer your questions. State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment Mariusz Orion Jędrysek answers the question of the Member State.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u142	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to answer a few questions. They've died before and I've answered, but again. Ladies and gentlemen, legal shit. If the Legislative Council, if the most important bodies involved are positive, please forgive me, this is not a legal bubble, and we can improve that, the Sejm can improve this during the parliamentary work. Embezzlement of raw materials. Ladies and gentlemen, not the possession of the raw materials, just an attempt to regain power over the raw materials by the nation, [[Applause]] because today we have such a situation that we trade Polish concessions, have been granted concessions in a curial manner, we have four arbitrations, each concerning multi-billion-dollar claims. And it was done when you ruled. Today we have to face it. [[Applause]] The geological agency must regain power over Polish raw materials in Poland, because Poland is one of the richest countries in terms of raw materials, and we have the biggest problems with it. In every country that has raw materials, there's an executive agency, a government agency. It is in the Czech Republic, it is in many other countries. It's a puriazum to entrust the state functions to a scientific institution by so much. That's not how you do it. In France it is even a state-owned company, in many other countries it is simply companies or entities, executive agencies. There is no other situation, and we must do the same. This is not the destruction of the National Geological Institute. The State Geological Institute has been separated from the service floor and this service post will be renamed, changed, will have its law as an executive agency. That's it. The money will be almost exactly the same from the same sources, only that it will be controlled by the state and not by the scientific institution itself will be the customer and the principal, [[Applause]] i.e. the increased scientific needs will determine the needs of the state. You can't do that. As far as the President is concerned, of course we can change that, try to make proposals. We can bring this up at the committee meeting, because it's to be changed, it's not a problem. This isn't a party agency. It will be an executive agency, which is many in Poland. We must have a host and a keeper of geological resources. Ladies and gentlemen, please pay attention to what has been, what has been, what has been the puriazum. It was in the years when the state ruled, when the Civic Platform ruled, the subject related to the implementation of works, as regards hydrocarbons from shale formations for Poland's energy security, etc. As part of this work, such a great work was published there, including additional works: "Mysteries of shales, a comic book. Ladies and gentlemen, the whole project is over a million nine hundred. It says here, please: welcome, learn the history of shale gas told by dwarfs. Did the Dwarves spoil the Polish slates? No, they're not dwarves, so, ladies and gentlemen, let's make it possible to manage the raw materials properly. That's all it's all about, nothing more. In fact, a very small change: a branch of the geological service being transformed into an executive agency. Then we will strengthen the National Geological Institute, which has fallen very badly. Ladies and gentlemen, the institute is at the bottom of category B, which means it's almost decommissioned. We need to save him, strengthen him scientifically. That's what this is all about, and we're gonna do it. I'm counting on you to finally understand this and help. And when it comes to those who are protesting, think about why they're protesting. You really need to think carefully. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u143	Thank you, Minister. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print no 3378, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 392 Members voted. For - 175, against - 215, holding down 2. The Sejm rejected the proposal and thus referred this draft law to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry for consideration. We return to the consideration of item 1 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on the Development Fund for public service bus services. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy for consideration. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of Draft Print Act No 3411 please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? There were 391 Members voted. For -62 against - 221, 108 stopped. The Sejm rejected the proposal and thus referred this draft law to the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy. I propose that the Sejm, based on the article. 39 (1) (a) 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, set a time limit for the submission of the report for consideration at the current sitting of the Sejm. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm declaring a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 mins 21 hours 12 min 23]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report of the Extraordinary Commission on the Government bill amending the Family and Care Code Act and the Civil Procedure Code Act (Prints No. 3295 and 3394). I ask Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u144	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! I present on behalf of the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications a report on the government draft law amending the Family and Care Code Act and the Code of Civil Procedure Act. These are 3295 and 3394 prints. The reasons for the amendment are indicated by the Council of Ministers in the justification for the project. This is the necessity of implementing the Constitutional Court ruling of 26 November 2013, following which Article. 71 of the family code, according to which the denial of the fatherhood was not admissible after the death of the child, lost effect, and of the second ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, and more specifically the ruling of the Court of 11 February 2014, which indicates the need to introduce a regulation ensuring that the guardian is properly qualified to represent the child in criminal proceedings in the event of a conflict of interest between his parents and to impose information obligations on that guardian in relation to the parent who is caring for the child. Marshal of the Sejm at its 79th meeting, held on 4 April 2019, pursuant to Article. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed this draft law to the Extraordinary Commission for amendments to the codifications for consideration. The committee meeting was held on 24 April. It was attended by Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak, together with colleagues, the curator of the court of Aleksandra Dźwigulska, the staff of the office and advisors of the Extraordinary Commission, as well as legislators from the Legislative Office. Mr Piebiak presented the draft to the Undersecretary of State at the committee meeting. There was a discussion about the project. All the provisions of the submission have been systematically discussed. Cooling and legislative amendments have been tabled and adopted. Nine Members voted in favour, no one opposed, no one abstained. Therefore, the Extraordinary Commission for Codification Changes after considering this draft law asks the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft as proposed in the report in print No 3394. I would like to thank the ladies and gentlemen for their cooperation, as well as all the participants in the committee's work. In the event of specific questions, I shall remain at the disposal of the High House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u145	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mrs Barbara Bartus, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u146	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I am pleased to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Family and Care Code Act and the Civil Procedure Code Act contained in print no. 3394. I would like to remind you that the Government's print project No 3295 concerns the need to implement the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 26 November 2013, as a result of which Article. 71 of the Family and Care Code, according to which the denial of paternity was not admissible after the death of the child, has expired, and the implementation of the order of the Constitutional Tribunal of 11 February 2014, which indicated the need to introduce a regulation ensuring that the guardian is properly qualified to represent the child in criminal proceedings in the event of a conflict of interest between his parents and to impose information obligations on that curator in relation to the parent in charge of the child. As regards the modification of the loss of power by Article. 71 The family and caring code is in the draft attached to the report we depart from the existing principle of stabilisation of the child's marital status after his death, because the new regulation introduces exceptions to this rule relating to the situation where the child died after the initiation of the procedure concerning the establishment of motherhood or fatherhood. This has not been the case so far, but this regulation will enable the court to establish family ties according to the actual biological origin of the child by completing proceedings for the denial of fatherhood, the denial of motherhood and the determination of the ineffectiveness of the recognition of the child initiated in the life of the child and the determination of motherhood or fatherhood by judicial means after the death of the child. As regards the need for changes in the statutory definition of professional requirements for guardians established for the representation of a child in criminal proceedings, it has so far been pointed out that conflict curators have failed to comply with their obligations. He pointed to this, among other things. in his report, the spokesperson for the rights of the child. However, the role of the curator, even in criminal proceedings, is very important. The conflict curator is present, among others. in criminal proceedings in cases of domestic violence. He represents a child in a situation where parents are conflicted or when one parent dominates another and thus parents cannot properly represent the legal and actual interests of the child. In accordance with the proposed amendments, a guardian representing the child may be appointed a lawyer or legal counsel who has a special knowledge of matters relating to the child of a kind corresponding to the case in which the child is required to be represented or has completed appropriate training on the principles of representation of the child, the rights or the needs of the child. No exceptions are foreseen in criminal matters. It should also be noted that the proposed legislation, which is an absolute novelty in the existing legislation, also provides for the curator's obligation, among others. to get to know the child and to inform him, if, of course, his mental development, his health and degree of maturity allow him to do so, about his actions. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Changing the appropriate standard of representation of children in court proceedings and proceedings before other authorities is a necessity. Thus, this draft amendment to the Family and Care Code Act should be considered legitimate and the Law and Justice Club will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u147	Thank you very much. Now Mr Zdzisław Gawlik, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u148	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, I wanted to present my position on the proposed law amending the Family and Care Code Act and the Civil Procedure Code Act, contained in prints No. 3295 and 3394. This amendment to the Family and Welfare Code and the Civil Procedure Code is the consequence of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 26 November 2013, pursuant to which the provision of the Family Code has become invalid, according to which the denial of fatherhood was not admissible after the death of the father. The goal of every human being, every child, every mother and father is to establish the biological links existing between the relevant persons that arise as a result of the birth of the child. The system of determining the origin of the child in particular with regard to the father is essentially based on a system of presumption of origin of the child from the husband of the mother. However, it happens in various situations that things can be different. Thus, the law provides for the possibility to challenge the relationship between the relevant persons as a consequence of the birth of the child in marriage. An insight into the right of a man to establish parenthood according to reality and the welfare of the family created by the mother also when the child dies, for the sake of the family and the supposed father, and also as a consequence of this. The state of the family and property, also for the sake of loved ones, leads me to agree to the proposed proposal, so my club will vote in favour of the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u149	Thank you very much. Now Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u150	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The law we are considering is indeed a consequence of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, so it is difficult to question its legitimacy here. The current regulation does not allow the determination of motherhood or fatherhood after the death of a child if the child was not the cause of the pending case. Only the D.A. has that option. And since this authority is available to the prosecutor, there's no reason to deny it to the mother or the alleged father of the child. The possibility of a judicial determination of motherhood or fatherhood should also be allowed after the death of the child, in order to rule out the situation in which the child's marital status remains undetermined. Such a solution is an obvious consequence of allowing the possibility of denying motherhood or fatherhood after the death of a child if the child dies in the course of a trial brought before him during his life. These are very difficult, very difficult topics, but we must be aware that these are not individual issues. In 2018, in order to show a certain background to all these changes in the law, we have dealt with over 5,000 cases, 4700 cases of paternity, over 5,000 cases. cases for denial of fatherhood and about 600 cases for determination of failure to recognise fatherhood. It shows that this scale is large. By changing the family code and caring today, we will finally give birth to children, parents, mothers and fathers after the most tragic event that could have happened to them, that is, after the death of the child. Of course, Kukiz15 will vote in favour of these changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u151	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u152	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I would like to present our position on the report of the committee on the government bill amending the Family and Care Code Act and the Civil Procedure Code Act, Seym Printing No. 3295 and 3394. This amendment has already been quite widely presented - it can be said: in all its lengths - during earlier readings, so I will no longer duplicate the arguments that were made by the projectors. May I just add that a rather important element of this project is the provision that, after the project has entered into force, the denial of paternity, motherhood is to be allowed after the death of the child in a situation where it died after the initiation of the procedure. It is about the possibility of completing such cases if the child has died during their lifetime. Currently, as we know, it is not possible to determine the fatherhood of supposed parents after the death of a child - only the prosecutor and the successors of the deceased child have this possibility. The project records shall also specify the qualifications that the curator should have for the representation of the child in judicial and administrative proceedings and in legal activities, including legal activities. In principle, only a lawyer or legal counsel can become such a curator. Lawyers and lawyers have professional knowledge and experience, which certainly guarantees proper protection of the interests of the child. However, in order for a lawyer or a lawyer to become a curator, he must demonstrate special knowledge of the child's affairs or must complete appropriate training. The project imposes information obligations on the probation officer in relation to the parent taking care of the child but not participating in the proceedings. At the same time, the probation officer was obliged to obtain information from such a parent about the child for the proper representation of the child. In addition, the probation officer was required to provide the child with the necessary information if the child is of adequate age. High Izbo! Both amendments implementing the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal raise no doubt. There is no reason why the determination of fatherhood or motherhood could not be completed after the death of the child. This is important, among others. for inheritance reasons. The proposal to establish the standard of qualification that a curator established to represent a child in judicial and administrative proceedings should also be recognised. The amendments to the draft adopted during the committee's work are mostly editorial and do not raise doubts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u153	Thank you very much. Dear High Izbo! At the gallery we have a trip from Ełk - these are representatives of the union of pensioners and pensioners. Welcome back, folks. [[Applause]] The Member has made her statement in writing. So we're going to ask questions. We have two questions right now. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. Mr Piotr Pyzik, first Member of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u154	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There is no doubt that the primary good that should first be protected in caring matters is the child's welfare. Is it not therefore appropriate to impose strict and high requirements on persons who are to act as a procedural substitute for a child, including the obligation to provide specialist training in this area? Today, it is quite common for young judges, with relatively little experience, to be heard in the media area and in contacts with voters. It is therefore all the more important to introduce changes that will increase the level of protection of the rights and interests of children and participants in judicial proceedings. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u155	Thank you. Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u156	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have a question about this project, but going a little further. Minister, we've been struggling with this Stalinist monster for decades now known as the Family and Care Code. He does indeed sound a little different today from what he was designed at the time, as I mentioned, Stalinist. Minister, the government has already prepared an amendment to the family code. She was in the Seym, under strange circumstances there was an amendment, the project disappeared, came back. Minister, is the government planning to rewrite the Family and Care Code? I'm asking because we have an impression, and this project proves that this code is so hollow that there's nothing to patch it up, you have to rewrite it. Minister, are these jobs ongoing, or is there such an idea in the ministry? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u157	Thank you very much. Mr Łukasz Piebiak now has the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u158	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In answer to Mr Pyzik's question, it seems that these requirements, which are set out in the proposal submitted to the High House, as regards the qualification of the curator, are adequate requirements. There is indeed talk of specialization, also about training. So it seems that further tightening of the criteria to be met by the curator established to represent in this procedure is not intentional, as it is by nature limiting the availability of curators. And it's not only about the probation officer being professional, because it's kind of obvious, but it's also about being available, so that it's not so that by raising the bar too much, we're gonna make it impossible to find the probation officer, because there's a danger, too. The project seems to be breaking all those rations. If, in the future, there is a problem with the incorrect performance of duties due to the too low requirements that the legislator has put in place, it is, of course, possible to amend. We are very quickly receiving such signals if something is not right in the system, especially in the area of such sensitive area of law as family law. So that if such signals appear in greater numbers in the future during the functioning of the law, we will certainly respond and submit proposals for changes to the High House. As of today, it seems that the project here is as appropriate as possible, and it breaks down those rations I was talking about. As for Mr Skutecki's question - no, we are not working on a new family and caring code. It is a legal act that is of course old and raises some doubts, hence its amendments, but certainly its present shape is not so bad as to have to turn everything upside down. Addressees of legal standards they also have the right to expect certain continuation and non-imposition of drastic changes in the legal system when there is no need to do so. Of course, this speaks to imagination, if we are dealing with the Codes of the 1960s, it concerns the Civil Code and the Code of Civil Procedure, the Family Code, but these normative acts have little to do with what the legislator in the 1960s, under completely different socio-economic conditions, adopted. So that we do not carry out such work, we have not been signalled so far-reaching expectations so far - because I take the Member's question as such a signal - that we need to introduce a completely new family code. If such expectations are formulated in more ways, then of course we will examine this, we can go back to this subject, but of course not in this parliamentary term, because it would be physically impossible to even prepare a draft new legislative act, let alone a process which, in the case of codes, must be carried out properly, should be considered, because the effects are important. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u159	Thank you very much. Mr Waldemar Buda still has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u160	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to make a minor correction, an editorial amendment to the article. 93, which clarifies who is competent to determine the probation officer's remuneration. [[Voice from the room: 99.]] The intention was that it should be an organ or a court before which the curator represents the child, not a court which originally appointed him. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u161	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u162	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Family and Care Code Act and the Civil Procedure Code Act, print no. 3295 and 3394. The bill we are discussing is based, among others, on the bill. of the need to enforce decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal. First of all, the changes in k.r.o. and c.p.c., which implements the first of these judgments, is the expiry of the validity of the Article. 71 k.r.o., consists in enabling the completion of the process of denial of fatherhood, denial of motherhood and determination of the ineffectiveness of the recognition of the child that was initiated during the life of the child, as well as the possibility of establishing motherhood or fatherhood on a judicial basis after the death of the child. Secondly, the second of the judgments is to include requirements for curators appointed pursuant to Article. 99 k.r.o. Only a lawyer or counsel may be appointed in accordance with the principle. Those who are associated with the structures of the bar or counsel authority should also be entitled to complete appropriate training on the principles of the child's representation, rights or needs, or to have a special knowledge of matters relating to the child in general corresponding to a case in which there is a need to establish a probation officer. In less complex cases, it may also be another person with legal education and a knowledge of the needs of the child, in particular when the custody court sets out in detail the content of the proceedings and, if special circumstances so warrant, another person with a knowledge of the needs of the child. Thirdly, the proposal imposes an obligation on the probation officer to inform the parent who is not in the proceedings and who is taking care of the child, as well as to inform the parent who is not in the proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u163	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position towards the Government's draft law amending the Family and Care Code Act and the Civil Procedure Code Act following the work on this project in the Extraordinary Commission for Changes in Codifications. The amendments proposed to the draft during the committee's work were not substantive but merely editorial or legislative. As I have already pointed out in my previous position, I believe that these solutions are right and worthy of support. The amended amendment is a consequence of the obligation to enforce the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal, specifically the judgment of 26 November 2013, and aims inter alia. to make it possible to deny the fatherhood and motherhood after the death of the child when it died after the initiation of the proceedings. With this solution, it will be possible to complete the pending cases if the child has died during their lifetime. In the current legal order, only the prosecutor has such a right, but I see no reason why the alleged parents of a child would be deprived of that right. In addition, the provisions proposed in the amendment provide for the implementation of the provisions of the Constitutional Tribunal of 11 February 2014 concerning the clarification of the powers and formal requirements for curators representing a minor in criminal matters in a conflict of interest between his parents. It is clear from my view that the obligation to provide information to parents who take care of the child is an obligation on these persons, as it consequently strengthens the position of parents in the proper care of the child. The provisions proposed in this amendment are thoughtful, consistent and correctly integrated into the existing system, as confirmed by the opinion of the Legislative Council. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u164	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, an amendment was notified to the proposed amendment, pursuant to Article. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I am directing this draft law to the Extraordinary Commission for amendments to the codifications in order to submit a report. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Health Commission on the draft law amending the Act on Patient Rights and the Ombudsman (prints 3176 and 3397). I would like to ask Mrs Anna Czech to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u165	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Committee on Health, I have the honour to present a report to the committee on the work on the government draft law amending the Act on Patients' Rights and the Ombudsperson of Patient Rights, print No 3176. Following the application to the Marshal of the Sejm, the Health Commission carried out its first reading and set up a subcommittee to deal with the draft law. The aim of this project was to clarify the rules on the provision of supplementary care for a minor patient or having a significant disability ruling in medical entities providing fixed and 24-hour medical services. The initiative of change was also implemented in cooperation with the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland. At the same time, the costs of this right, in so far as they are borne by the operators, should be governed by the payment to be made by the manager of the establishment. During the work of the subcommittee, for which I thank its members very warmly, because there was a very creative discussion, a solution was developed in the care of patients, which extended the provisions of the project in the version addressed to the Sejm, because the project provided that it would be acceptable to charge for meals ordered by parents, use of hospital beds, use of additional beds made available by the hospital or other medical facility. The version of the proposal submitted to the High Sejm, which was adopted by the Health Commission at its meeting on 24 April, does not include the above mentioned version. exemptions and meets the expectations of parents and guardians of children so that they can stay with their children at the hospital all the time. This new regulation is intended to facilitate as common and unlimited contacts between hospitalized children and their loved ones without additional costs. Thank you again for the creative discussion. The additional amendment to the draft law was also adopted by the committee at its meeting on 24 April 2019. A new article has been introduced. 2, which concerns the one-off possibility that, at the request of the Director of the NFZ Voivodeship Branch and with the agreement of the provider, the validity of the contract for outpatient care benefits may be extended. This extension will be valid until 30 June 2021. The Director of the National Health Fund will address requests to healthcare providers with whom he will communicate, whether they will continue to wish to provide these benefits. I'm sure you will. This applies to all contracts that have not been terminated on that day. As a large number of contracts expire on 31 December 2019, this would require a great deal of effort from the Fund. At the same time, the Network Act causes hospitals to provide both fixed and outpatient benefits. Therefore, as regards the monitoring by the Minister for Health of this network, it will be time to decide on new regulations by 2021. Until then, it will be possible to extend contracts with providers who provide AOS benefits. Therefore, such a solution is justified. The committee therefore accepted this amendment. The Commission proposes to the High Sejm to approve the attached bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u166	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mrs Bernadette Krynick, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u167	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the club Law and Justice a position regarding the government draft law amending the Act on Patients' Rights and the Ombudsman of Patient Rights, prints 3176 and 3397. The draft amendment of the law prohibits the charging of hospital or other hospital charges for fixed and 24-hour health benefits from parents or carers staying there with a child or a disabled person to a significant extent. In the version addressed to the Sejm, the project provided that it would be possible to charge for meals given to parents or carers, to use hospital beds, to use an extra bed made available by a hospital or other medical facility. The current version of the draft law drawn up before the subcommittee and adopted by the Health Commission at its meeting on 24 April 2019 no longer includes the abovementioned. exemptions from the principle prohibiting the charging of hospital or other medical facilities providing fixed and 24-hour health benefits from parents or carers staying there with a child or a disabled person to a significant extent. The regulation meets the expectations of parents. It is about the right of the child to have parents or caregivers with him at all times. The presence of loved ones is beneficial for the child. It accelerates the treatment process, relieves stress and strengthens your sense of security. Parents should therefore be able to create as convenient conditions as possible for hospital stays with their children, encourage and facilitate the implementation of this right. However, the collection of parental fees by hospitals limits many of them to the exercise of this right. At present, the fees charged by hospitals are very diverse and, although generally not high, they can become a serious burden on the family budget if they stay longer. The new regulation is intended to facilitate the most common and unlimited contact between hospitalized children and their loved ones. The law and justice stand in the position that there are values and good things that cannot be converted into money. They certainly include hospital care for children and people with disabilities by the people closest to them. Hence, our firm support for the solution that parents and carers cannot be charged for hospital stays and care for their loved ones. This is also a response to the provisions contained in the European Charter of Children's Rights at the Hospital, one of which states that parents' stay should not expose them to additional costs and loss of earnings. Our job is to create conditions that will encourage parents to take care of their children during their stay in the hospital, which will give them minimal relief in their difficult situation. Parents, through their commitment to care for the child, help not only him but also the entire hospital staff, and we can do something to help these parents. In addition, during the meeting of the Health Committee on 24 April this year. a new article has been introduced into the draft law. 2. under which, at the request of the Director of the competent branch of the voivodship National Health Fund, with the agreement of the provider, the application of health care contracts in the field of outpatient specialised care implemented on the date of entry into force of this Act may be extended for a period not longer than 30 June 2021. This proposal will be addressed by the Head of the Regional Branch of the National Health Fund to all healthcare providers who perform health care contracts in the field of outpatient specialized care that have not been terminated at the date of submission of the application. Minister! Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In view of this position, the Law and Justice Club recommends the adoption by the Sejm of a draft law amending the Act on the Rights of the Patient and the Ombudsperson of the Patients, prints 3176 and 3397. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u168	Thank you. Mrs Elżbieta Gelert, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u169	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, I would like to present my position on the government's draft law amending the Act on Patient Rights and the Ombudsman, prints 3176 and 3397. Originally, as has already been said, only Article was included in this project. 1 and we discussed additional nursing care for a minor patient or having a judgment on a significant degree of disability. And as for this we all agreed, all the clubs, also our club, that this article is in line with our intention and that care is to be free of charge. On the other hand, the Minister - I would like to point out - has committed himself and has announced that a new benefit will be created in the National Health Fund, which will compensate for additional, unpaid care. The Act enters into force within 14 days of the date of the announcement, so we are waiting for the National Health Fund to present its solution until then. The Rule Committee was unexpectedly included in its deliberations. 2 and I will tell you that it is not reflected in the title of the Act at all. The Act is about the rights of the patient and the Ombudsperson of the Rights of the Patient, so the title of the Act has not even been changed and the title of the Act has not been changed. 2 is actually talking about something completely different, i.e. introducing in a non-competition mode an extension of the contracts for outpatient care for the next 2 years. And here I am asking the Minister: Why was it so late that the competitions could not be held? Why is the second article so unexpectedly introduced without keeping the order of procedure for the bill, and why is it not reflected in the title of the law? Is this procedure correct? Accordingly, the introduction of Article. Two of our club can't agree. You've been accusing the last team of not running competitions the whole time, and you've said you're gonna get to work right away. It's been four years, and right now you're extending it to two more, which is six years together. Turns out he doesn't really have an idea for specialized care. We therefore submit an amendment to the Health Committee's report on the government draft law aimed at deleting the article. 2. I think that this should be considered, because the provision of this Article. 2 may be entered in other laws. Today we are going to investigate two draft laws, about benefits and about financing health care. The provision of this Article. 2 could successfully be included in those laws. Therefore, today we are making an amendment and our position will depend on acceptance or rejection of this amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u170	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u171	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear guests at the gallery! This is a beautiful day, because for many years, parents have shown their finger how important it is to have a parent in a sick child's hospital. It's not for half an hour, it's for an hour, it's for 24 hours. Baby needs safety, she needs comfort, she needs hugs, she needs tenderness. We can judge it differently, we can call it, but it's a therapeutic process. I'm so glad the government noticed that. Ladies and gentlemen! But let us remember the order. The order was that the government brought to the meeting of the Health Commission a draft law in which it de facto obliged hospital directors to charge their parents for three services, i.e. for the bed, for the laundry, and for the meals. In the course of the discussion it turned out that the Minister was open enough to give up all three records. The Commission has practically made it clear that it is not possible to charge parents for these three things. Other things in hospitals from parents are not charged anyway. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, this bill, this draft amendment does not change the facts. The point is, hospitals aren't gonna swell, sals and beds aren't gonna make it. If the hospital doesn't have the opportunity to give the parent a bed, he won't make it available, just like that. On the other hand, if it is possible, the parent will not be forced to pay for it. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is a really big deal. Unfortunately, later on, what my predecessor, Mrs Bauer, spoke about, happened. If you ever, in the future, look for a law that talks about eliminating outpatient care competitions, you must be aware that you will be looking for a law on patients' rights and the Ombudsman's rights. There's no point in it. It would be good to remove one provision from this law and actually put it into any other law, more substantive, titlely and conceptually appropriate. Never mind. Either way, I'm going to convince my club to vote for this bill because it finally leads us to normality. Thank you, Minister. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u172	Thank you. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, a club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u173	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The Club of the Polish People's Party - the European Union of Democrats is in favour of further proceding the proposed bill and report of the committee. We believe it is a good thing that it is clear that there is a clear decision that has been made about a matter that has gone through, has appeared in hospitals, could have been interpreted differently, aroused different feelings. Assuming that we should seek to harmonise the interpretation of the provisions in the legal acts, we consider this to be a good objective, a clearly defined, precise and unambiguous explanation of our position also as to the rules for the conduct of the medical process in a situation where this applies to persons requiring a different approach and special care, i.e. children and minors and those for whom the degree of disability has been declared. Minister! On the other hand, I refer to this provision of the article. 2. I do not know whether this is some curse on this term or on this parliament, that under the title of the Act we do not reflect the provisions or the contents which are contained in the following articles and paragraphs. My previous speakers paid attention to this. Okay, the target is good, but why exactly in this Article Act. 2... I agree with the conclusions and suggestions of my previous speakers. Today we have another two points and two projects that we are talking about. How can I find some provisions on specific issues later if they are not reflected in the title? But I think I'm sure we'll vote in favour of these records. Nevertheless, since the amendment has already been tabled, I would ask that it be analysed and found the right solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u174	Thank you. Mr Marek Ruciński, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u175	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Poselski Club with regard to the government draft law on patient rights and the Ombudsman of patient rights. I repeat: a government draft law on patient rights and the ombudsperson of patient rights. Since the beginning of work in the Sejm on this bill, emotions have been raised in the discussion. It is not surprising, because the idea of charging the costs of renting a bed or washing the bed linen of people visiting patients, e.g. parents or carers could only be born in the heads of those who have absolutely no contact with hospital work. It is not known from now on that the presence of loved ones has a significant impact on the patient's recovery process. The support of the family in difficult times, as well as its presence, is one of the basic needs of the patient. This law, in its original form, could have caused some people to be deprived of this support for economic reasons. It is to be welcomed that, in the course of the work of the subcommittee, Law and Justice have decided to partially withdraw from these ideas. Unfortunately, when preparing these changes, the Members of the governing party once again considered that the best solution would be to divide patients into those who deserve support and those who will have to bear certain costs associated with hospital stays. Some medical institutions have already introduced flat-rate media charges, i.e. water and electricity used by families and caregivers of patients. The introduction of the solutions we are discussing today, however, will lead to a situation in which my ortho-traumatics and trauma unit in one room may be a patient whose loved ones do not have to pay such fees, and one who simply does not deserve to be present in the eyes of the authorities. This is a very bright example of the introduction of inequality. There is no doubt that these proposals result from the very difficult financial situation of many hospitals. The Minister, instead of negotiating more funds with Prime Minister Morawiecki, tried to enable the directors to obtain them from another source. However, it has been forgotten that in hospitals people work, who are not a foreign word for empathy, work people who have devoted their lives professionally to helping others. That is why I can assure you with all my determination that the rules that are being applied today will simply be dead. If Minister Szumowski and Prime Minister Morawiecki think otherwise, let them take on this responsibility and hand it over to their wife, who wants to watch over her husband after the accident, or her granddaughter looking after her grandmother, that she must pay for the flat-rate electricity and water used in the hospital. Because I do not believe that there will be one doctor or nurse who in such a situation would be able to demand money on behalf of the hospital. I am very concerned about the perception of the world by the current power, which all problems ultimately try to solve by dividing and sequencing people into better and worse. You've recently done this with dental care for students that senior tech students no longer deserve, and now you're doing the same for families of thousands of patients. Moreover, once again, articles relating to a matter entirely outside the substantive scope of the project are introduced in the Act already under review. Without public consultation, it is planned to change the terms of contracts with the National Health Fund to outpatient care. Entities who have had one year to prepare for new competitions, or those who first competed in such competitions, are now excluded from the proceedings due to the very likely extension of existing contracts for another year or two years. The law should be stable and clear and not amended ad hoc, depending on the momentary needs of the rulers, without a wide range of stakeholders. To conclude, I think it would be best to withdraw this project from the voting block, not try to save image by replacing bad solutions with those that ultimately lead to patient segregation. The modern will abstain from voting on this bill. This will be an expression of our opposition to the division of society into better and worse, as well as the fact that it is difficult to lay hands on the creation of a bad and dead law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u176	Thank you very much. Nine ladies and gentlemen came to the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. As the first Mr Michał Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club. There's no envoy. Mrs Magdalena Marek, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u177	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Thank you for being influenced by us, under the influence of the Members of the Civic Coalition, to the extent that parents who are in hospital and help take care of a sick child by the bed will not have to pay for this stay. I have repeatedly raised the subject of sleeping, of having parents with sick children in the hospital, and I have repeatedly warned about this problem. I am therefore very pleased that this has been included in the committee's work. The soulless system ordered itself to pay for the stay of parents, and we know - as it was also said here - that parents are helping in care, in rehabilitation, therapeutic activities. They helped doctors, nurses, all of them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] medical personnel.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u178	Thank you very much. Mrs Chybick.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u179	Getting out of this... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u180	Thank you very much, Member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u181	...it's the right decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u182	Mrs Alicja Chybicka, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u183	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! For starters, I wanted to thank you for finally letting your parents be free with the baby, which was in my Cape of Hope, but now they're gonna have all the kids. It's what society's been waiting for for for a long time. But I have a question about part two, the part that's a very painful part. Well, ladies and gentlemen, why aren't there any new AOS competitions at the hospital? Many hospitals have been dreaming of having a competition for some time, so that new clinics can be created. I'm not talking about the fact that the inclusion of this in this law, the Ombudsman, is five or nine. But that's not what's important. The worst part is that the annexation will extend the work to those clinics that are, but what about those hospitals that don't have them and they need them as health? A patient discharged from a ward will simply go into the world, no one knows where, no place to check out. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u184	Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u185	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Parents have been waiting for such a bill for many years. The therapeutic role of a parent with a sick child in a hospital is invaluable. A child needs closeness, stability, a sense of security that gives him the presence of a parent. The same is true when it comes to disabled people, especially intellectually. It is good that the government finally noticed this problem, because collecting high, often very high fees from parents, from caring for their children in the hospital was a stain on honour, ethics of the Polish state. However, I have a question: How will the government compensate hospitals for these costs? Can you count on additional points, procedures, or maybe in some other way the government will help hospitals on this issue? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u186	Thank you very much. Mrs Elżbieta Gelert, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u187	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Question: "When can we expect the introduction of a product such as care provision by a national fund?" That's what you committed to at the committee meeting. I'd like you to confirm it, but at the same time, I'd like you to indicate when it's gonna be. And the second question: When will the criteria of the specialist counseling competition be finally established, because for four years you have not established them and that is why there is no competition, and that is why you are introducing an article. 2. There's been talk of clinics at the hospital. Hospital clinics were supposed to take care of patients, and it's been gone for four years. So those two questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u188	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u189	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have some doubts, and I would like the Minister to be kind enough to dispel her. As part of the proposed solution, a 24-hour medical facility is required to have a separate room for parents or caregivers of patients, including those who do not use an extra bed? That's a question I can't find. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u190	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u191	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You extend contracts for the next 2 years to specialist counsellors without a competition, which is a failure on the part of the PiS because you have not developed competition rules. I don't know if that's funny. Was that hard for you guys? You just couldn't handle it. I believe that the non-competition agreement for the clinic will be deleted during the procedure. The fact that parents will not be charged for hospital stays is a very good solution, and that should be recognised. However, consideration should be given to what with severe cases in adults, because in this case it will be uneven [[♪ The bell ♪]] treatment of patients. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u192	Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u193	Thank you. Minister! I have two questions. One question referring a little to Mr Rometsky's question. Today, the only procedure for a parent in a hospital with a sick child, even a child, is when a mother feeds the child. Does the Minister, or does the Ministry provide for similar funding opportunities for hospitals to stay parents with a sick child? Second question, Minister. From practice, from experience it is known that in hospitals conditions are different: sometimes it is a field bed, sometimes it is a normal bed, sometimes it is a deckchair, sometimes it is a chair. Does the Minister have, collect such information - from all over Poland, statistically, about what numbers we are talking about. What are the numbers for a possible extra bed for a parent? Does the Minister have that knowledge? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u194	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u195	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Each form of additional care provided by a carer or the best parent is extremely important and necessary for children during their stay in the hospital, because hospital stay is most often a stress for children. It is true that the very presence of loved ones eliminates fear in children and promotes faster recovery. That is why I am very pleased with the draft law. However, I would like to ask if there are facilities that do not have logistical capacity to allow such care. [[Voice from the room: Most.]] How will this solution be applied to them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u196	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed... No, I haven't closed the discussion yet, and Mr Maciej Miłkowski's Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health will answer the questions. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u197	Dear High Izbo! Dear Marshal, Thank you very much to the rapporteurs and all those asking questions. I would like to comment on the questions asked. First question, Mrs Magdalena Marek. I would like to say that the subcommittee that was investigating these changes was unanimous in this respect. All the parliamentary clubs also decided to amend this law in such a way that children and people with disabilities should be accompanied by family, parents or persons who care for them. It's free to make it clear the law. Therefore, each option had the same opinion. I am pleased that this has been done unanimously in this respect. As regards Mrs Chybick's question, of course, many hospitals have not yet charged fees - although they may have been for adults and children - but some have continued to collect them and we have been voting that for those who have been there for a long time, the fee is a financial problem and prevents them from being with the child. We are therefore making such a change. This answers the questions of many Members regarding the possibility of financing this care and the reimbursement of additional costs incurred by hospital operators, which will make additional beds available together with bed linen and enable them to use the bathroom with shower. The National Health Fund, like in the case of lactating mothers who are no longer hospitalized, will prepare a new contract product for which it will pay for it to pay the costs. Since the planned entry into force of the Act is 14 days from the date of its publication, we assume that this amendment will be introduced on 1 July. In the nearest draft of the National Health Fund Notice, such additional benefits will appear to settle with the National Health Fund and then these costs can be reimbursed by the National Health Fund. As there are opportunities to change the National Health Fund's financial plan, it will be possible to pay for these benefits. Questions have been raised about the fact that the solution is uneven - children's and disabled people's care can do so free of charge, and for older people there is no such possibility. The amendment concerned only children and people with significant disabilities. We have not amended the current law, which has been in operation for a long time since the law entered into force. That is why we will consider this when financial opportunities arise, and you can see changes in the financial plan, you can see that it is much higher, and therefore care is getting better, patients have more and more rights and the scope of guaranteed benefits is growing. This is also a benefit accompanying patients, which will be financed by the payer. With regard to the possibilities of individual hospitals to adapt to these regulations and provide parents with care opportunities, we know that this is not possible everywhere. Not every hospital can have a parent living with a child or be with a child in a room where the child is, or in a separate room in the hospital. However, we think that when the costs incurred by hospitals are reimbursed, more directors will be able to secure this additional benefit. We know there's an opportunity to find extra rooms for parents, because we can see that there's no 100 percent bed cover. In children's wards, this is often lower than in adult wards, and the hospitalization time of patients is reduced. There is an additional article. 2, which was notified at the committee meeting on 24 April, which allows the Director of the National Health Fund to send invitations to healthcare providers who already have an agreement and are not terminated, to extend that agreement. A large proportion of healthcare providers have outpatient specialized care contracts under the hospital network agreement, which ends on 30 June 2021. Therefore, this part of the entities already has contracts by the end of this period. At the same time, they are secured. Where there is no security, the National Health Fund continues to contract outpatient treatment depending on the level of white spots. Wherever such white spots appear, depending on the financial possibilities of the National Health Fund and the branch concerned, such competitions shall be held and shall apply... [[Voice from the room: Will there be the same criteria? You can't see it.]] The criteria are changed quite frequently and the criteria for outpatient specialist care are currently in place. By 30 June 2021, I'm sure. [[Voice from the room: You're not telling the truth.]] ...the criteria will change. Work is underway to prepare them, among others. The Board of the National Health Fund has set up a special team to prepare guidelines for contracting health care benefits. Various organisational models of outpatient specialized care are currently being refurbished, among others. care of the patient under the POZ Plus, where, for individual diseases, some of the benefits are provided under primary healthcare as a consultation. This applies to these entities. This project is developing very well. Its results can also be used to agree on how this contracting should take place. I know that there are six months left, most of the troops - by the end of December this year. This is such a minimum period for the preparation of proceedings, but it is possible that some entities in connection with additional appeals might not fit in, especially since the contracts would be in force for a period of one and a half years. We've already seen in previous terms, and in the current, that the contest for outpatient care is... Most entities have these contracts and many entities would certainly lose their contracts. Therefore, patients would have to re-enter the waiting list. This would certainly lead to some additional problems on the part of patients and, of course, on the part of the National Health Fund. So that the competition for outpatient care is one of the biggest organizational activities and proceedings are carried out in principle. Now we are looking for white spots in the field of outpatient care, cost-intensive delivery of CT scans, magnetic resonance imaging and - as always - gastroscopy, because we promote these benefits and when it comes to outpatient specialist care, it is often still bought. Thank you for having practically all the clubs behind this bill. [[And the title of the bill?]] As far as the title of the bill is concerned, it's an article. 2 is an incidental article, is addressed only to the Director of the National Health Fund and is not bound by the Act on the provision of health care. The Act is a whole and applies not only to one moment in a given period, but to the entire period, it has been in force for many years. It is therefore such a uniform provision, only for one moment, for 30 June, for the current year. The possibility of extending contracts would be such a one-off act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u198	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u199	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circles, I present my position on the report of the Health Commission on the draft law amending the Act on Patients' Rights and the Ombudsperson on Patients' Rights. The amended Act on the Law on the Rights of the Patient and the Ombudsperson is intended to clarify, in particular, the provisions relating to the provision of supplementary care for the minor or having a judgment of a significant degree of disability in medical entities providing fixed and 24-hour medical services. I have no doubt that the presence of the nearest person, the closest family to a minor child in a situation where his health requires hospital treatment, is very beneficial to him and has a positive effect on the entire treatment process. It is in the interest of the child to provide him with the care of his parents so that they feel safe when they are in a medical facility. However, many parents cannot afford to pay extra costs for their children in hospital, especially in cases where the costs of specialized medicines for which parents, which happens, have to pay, are also very high. The project includes provisions whereby parents or carers of children or persons with disabilities will not bear any costs in terms of the duration of their stay in the hospital and their care, even those resulting from meals, bed linen or extra beds. However, it is important that these regulations do not interfere with the possibility for the hospital to provide specific conditions for the parents concerned, but merely abolish the fees collected today in certain institutions. This change in my opinion will have a positive impact on the situation of minors and disabled people in Polish hospitals. Once again, the Government of Law and Justice has proved that caring for Polish families and their economic situation is extremely important for them, that the health and life of children is one of the priorities of his actions. The government law protects the interests of children and takes care to build a positive dimension of hospital treatment in our country. The Free and Solidarni Members' Circle will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u200	Until the third reading of the bill... [[The amendment was tabled.]] There was an amendment, quite right. Since, at the time of the second reading, an amendment was tabled to the proposed bill, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Health Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Extraordinary Commission on the Senate draft law amending the Code of Administrative Procedure Act (Prints 3144 and 3371). I ask Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u201	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I present on behalf of the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications a report on the Senate draft law amending the Code of Administrative Procedure Act. They're 3144 and 3371. The circumstances and purpose of the submission are indicated by the Senate in the justification for the project. As noted, the bill is the implementation of the petition to the Senate on 11 December 2017. The petitioner asked for a change in the article. 57 The Code of Administrative Procedure in such a way that the sending of a letter in the post office of the universal postal service provider in another Member State of the European Union is equal to the sending of a letter in the Polish post office. I will add that the petition is justified by the need to make it easier for Polish citizens to participate in legal trade in cases where they are staying in other countries of the European Union, because the possibility of submitting a letter to the consulate is insufficient. At its 78th meeting on 15 March 2019, the Marshal sent this draft law to the Extraordinary Commission for amendments to the codifications for consideration. Written opinions on the project were presented by the Polish Chamber of Experts and the National Representation of Self-Governmental Colleges of Appeals. On behalf of the Senate, the draft was presented at the committee meeting by Senator Jan Rulewski. There was a discussion about the project. All regulations have been systematically discussed. Only editorial and legislative amendments were tabled. The Extraordinary Commission for Codification Changes after considering the draft law asks the Sejm to adopt the draft law as proposed in the report of the Committee on Printing No 3371. I would like to thank you for your constructive cooperation with the Members, as well as with all the participants in the committee's work. In the event of specific questions, I shall remain at the disposal of the High House. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u202	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u203	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, a position on the Senate draft law amending the Code of Administrative Procedure. As I pointed out at the first reading, we agree with the objective pursued by the Senate in preparing this project, which is to make it easier for Polish citizens to participate in legal trade in cases where they reside in other European Union countries, but also in the Swiss Confederation or in the Member States of the European Free Trade Agreement. The project itself is short, but it is important because it concerns almost 2 million Polish citizens residing in these countries. The objective is to be achieved by the amendment of the Article. 57 c.p.a. in such a way that the sending of a letter to a postal service provider in another Member State of the Union is equal to the sending of a letter in a Polish postal service. It is worth adding that the civil, criminal and judicial administrative procedure already takes into account the possibility of sending a letter to a post office in another country belonging to the European Union. In conclusion, the proposed project is positive. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I declare that the club is in favour of further work and adoption of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u204	Thank you very much. Now on behalf of the parliamentary club, the Civic Platform by Mrs Katarzyna Osos.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u205	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Club, I have the honour to present my position on the committee's report on the draft law amending the Code of Administrative Procedure Act. The draft law aims to align postal services commonly operating in the countries of the European Union and the European Free Trade Agreement and the Swiss Confederation with postal services of operators currently operating in Poland. It is worth recalling that this project is the implementation of the petition of a group of citizens brought to the Senate. The petitioners have observed the phenomenon arising from processes related to globalisation and integration, which means that our citizens are in contact with law institutions or offices for various reasons outside the country. Today's Code regulates these contacts in such a way that it imposes an obligation to send a reply in due time, but through the Polish post office. Therefore, for the efficiency of trading, for the safety of our citizens, it is proposed to introduce these changes. During the committee's work, there was no doubt about the support given for the proposals. Two editorial amendments were tabled. As a club, we are in favour of the project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u206	Thank you very much. Now Mr Paweł Grabowski on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. There's no envoy. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party. And neither is your Member. Mr Mirosław Pampuch provided a written statement. One question has been raised. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u207	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask you the following question. What is the experience of requiring solutions similar to those proposed in civil, criminal and judicial procedures? Have they been registered Any problems arising from this? Shouldn't the law possibly contain a regulation requiring the register of universal postal service providers to be kept in a manner that doesn't raise objections? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u208	Thank you very much. The Minister doesn't speak. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u209	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position on the Senate draft law amending the Code of Administrative Procedure, prints 3144 and 3371. The draft submitted was submitted in response to a petition addressed to the Senate on the revision of the Code of Administrative Procedure. The point is that the sending of a letter in a post office of an operator providing universal postal services in another Member State of the European Union is equal to the sending of a letter in a Polish post office. Unfortunately, we are currently facing a lack of a uniform approach when it comes to the effectiveness of sending a letter to postal operators in the European Union. While the civil, criminal and judicial administrative procedures contain appropriate regulations on this subject, which allow for the effective transmission of a letter to the postal service provider in the countries of the European Union, this issue is not regulated by the administrative procedure. Polish law is inconsistent in this case and clearly makes life difficult for citizens. This project fixes this state of affairs. Modern always supports legislative initiatives aimed at harmonising and simplifying Polish legislation and facilitating the lives of Poles and Poles, so Members of the club of Modern will vote in favour of the submitted project.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u210	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Senate draft law amending the Code of Administrative Procedure Act, which was created after the work on this project in the Extraordinary Commission for Changes in Codifications. I would like to remind you that the proposal concerns the amendment of the Code of Administrative Procedure to ensure that the sending of a letter to the post office of the operator who provides postal services in another EU Member State is tantamount to the lodging of a letter to the relevant authority. Currently, the legal transmission of correspondence in a post office outside our country is not equivalent to the required deadline, and only the receipt of correspondence to the recipient meets this requirement. This amendment is the result of a petition to the Senate in December 2017. I am convinced that the processed solution for many people living outside our country will be a great facilitation and will also improve the efficiency of the flow of legal acts. As was emphasized during the committee meeting, each stage of the work on the project was very widely consulted. Positive opinions were presented by various institutions, ranging from the Polish Post itself through the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to banks and offices. The Free and Solidarnia Circle fully shares these views and supports the proposed project.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u211	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Government's draft Act on the Production and Trading of Explosives, Arms, Ammunition and Military or Police Purpose Products and Technology (Prints No 3347 and 3429). I would like to ask Anna Maria Siakowska to present a report. I don't see a Member. We'll just have to wait a minute. Two minutes off. [[Wait a minute.]] I would very much like to ask Anna Maria Siakowska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u212	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Government's draft law on the performance of economic activities in the field of the manufacture and marketing of explosives, weapons, ammunition and military or police-purpose products and technology. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent the above draft law to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for first reading on 3 April 2019. The contested Act on Production and Trading is intended to replace the current rules in this area and implement a number of EU regulations into the Polish legal order. One of the main objectives is to introduce into the Polish legal system regulations resulting from the EU directive on control of the acquisition and possession of weapons. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, starting its work on this draft law on 11 April, has decided to set up an emergency subcommittee for its consideration, given the extensive nature of the document. As part of the work on this project, the subcommittee met three times at multi-hour meetings. Multi-hours, because work on the project, which should be stressed, took place with a wide range of social players, i.e. representatives of licensed economic operators involved in the production and marketing of special production and non-governmental organisations. It is also worth noting that social actors had the opportunity to participate in the discussion and comment during the work of the subcommittee. When discussing the text of the Act, it should be noted first of all that it does not introduce diametric changes to the Polish legal order in the field of regulated economic activity related to the trafficking of arms and ammunition and explosives. The main change is the creation of an electronic Weapons Registration System. Such a system will allow to trace the history of each unit of firearms from the moment of their manufacture, through its possession by individual users, until its actual destruction. To serve this is to strengthen the control of the circulation of firearms in Poland. During the work of the subcommittee, Members introduced a number of changes to the bill following a debate between Polish entrepreneurs, the government side and, of course, Members. An important change from the point of view of the users of black powder weapons is the preservation of the existing nomenclature for replicas of such weapons. As a result, it has also been consistent with the provisions of the current Arms and Ammunition Act, and it has been ensured that the availability of such weapons will be regulated on the existing basis. The issue of marking weapons, which has been regulated in Article, has been particularly hotly discussed. 44 of this law. Finally, following the provision in Directive 2017/853 in Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) and, in its Polish, English and German wording, referring precisely to this article and its literal wording, the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs has decided to amend the article. 44 arms labelling laws in such a way that they correspond literally to the provisions of the directive. As a result, Polish producers will not have to mark all relevant parts on each unit of firearms, but will only be obliged to mark each unit of firearms or each substantial part of weapons placed on the market separately. This is an important change for Polish producers, because such a provision will not adversely affect the competitiveness of the production process. At the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, one of the major changes was also adopted in relation to the original text of the Act, which provided that firearms manufactured for the purposes of the Armed Forces and other uniform formations would not be introduced or processed into the Weapons Registration System. The SRB will therefore only collect information on weapons for civil use and its users. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, after first reading and considering this draft law, asks the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law. At the same time, the committee shall submit four minority proposals at the request of the applicants. In the first minority proposal it is proposed to add in Article. In paragraph 3, the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 1 after point 9, point 9a is replaced by the following: separate essential parts - means essential parts of firearms intended for placing on the market separately from firearms. The change, as you can see, concerns the addition of a definition of separate essential parts of weapons. 2. The minority proposal concerns Article. 14, in which the first sentence in the first paragraph. 1 It is proposed to add the following text: "The subject shall be entitled to appeal against a medical certificate or psychological decision. The amendment consists of the removal of the licence authority and the employer from the possibility of appealing against a medical certificate and a psychological decision to the entities indicated in the Act. 3. The minority's request, which has also not been accepted by the Members of the Committee, concerns Article. Paragraph 24 3, in which point 2 is proposed to be deleted. This applies to a situation in which the licensing authority may withdraw the licence when the trader no longer fulfils the condition under which it is required not to be subject to proceedings in cases of intentional crime or tax offence. 4. Last, the minority proposal concerns Article. 68. It's proposed in his mouth. Paragraph 2 (4) is replaced by the following: "persons authorised for a given type of weapon - for consumer testing'. The change consists in removing the indicated period, i.e. 14 days for which a weapon may be lent or leased to persons authorised for the type of weapon to be tested and tested prior to its purchase. This proposal has also not been accepted by a high committee. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, I request that the Sejm adopt this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u213	Thank you very much. At the gallery we have young people from the Economic and Service School Complex in Żychlin near Konin. We cordially greet you. [[Applause]] The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mrs Anna Siarkowska on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u214	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It has been my honor to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice a position regarding a government draft law on the performance of business activities in the field of the manufacture and marketing of explosives, weapons, ammunition and military or police-purpose products and technology. Proceded law, so-called. The Act on Production and Trading is intended to replace the current rules in this field and implement a number of EU regulations into the Polish legal order. One of its main objectives is to implement those regulations, which result from the famous EU directive on control of the acquisition and possession of weapons, i.e. Directive 2017/853. When discussing the text of the bill, it should be emphasized first of all that it does not introduce any violent revolution into the Polish legal order concerning regulated economic activity related to the trafficking of arms and ammunition and explosives. Both the government and the Members who worked on this bill followed a principle that could be defined as a directive plus zero. It means introducing only statutory amendments which result directly from EU rules which Poland is required to implement, while avoiding additional regulations. In addition, it should also be pointed out that those who worked on the final version of this document - both Members and the Government - also made efforts to take the interests of the Polish state and Polish entrepreneurs first into account when constructing legislation in this area and at the same time to comply with the letter of law contained in the directive. It should also be stressed here that the bill has undergone a wide public consultation with licensed entrepreneurs and NGOs. The representatives of the social party also participated in the debate held during the meetings of the Emergency Sub-Committee set up for the examination of this draft law and the meeting of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Committee. Therefore, the final version of the project should be considered as the common forces of the government, Members and the social side. When discussing the text of the bill, the shooters should also be calmed down first. Ladies and gentlemen! There is no attempt in this project to smuggle the provisions of the directive into the Arms and Ammunition Act. Black powder lovers can also breathe. The Act does not apply to historical weapons, that is to say, separate charge weapons, designed for firing only using black powder, which was manufactured before 1900. Since this law does not apply to this weapon, it will not need to be marked in accordance with the requirements introduced. Moreover, thanks to the solutions provided for by Members, the naming of black powder weapons remains unchanged and is consistent with what is applied in the arms and ammunition law. The fundamental change introduced by this law is the creation of an electronic Weapons Registration System which will allow to track the history of each unit of firearms from the moment of its manufacture or import by individual users until it is destroyed. It should also be noted that the firearms which will be manufactured for the purposes of the Armed Forces and other uniform formations will not be introduced or processed into the Weapons Registration System. This will collect information only on weapons for civil use and its users. The exclusion of these weapons from the SRB, the one which is intended for the Armed Forces and other uniform formations, should be considered to be beneficial for the interests of our country. And that is why I am very pleased that this change has been able to finally push through and agree with the government, to introduce at the last meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I recommend to the High House that this bill be adopted in the form developed during the work of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Law and Justice Club will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u215	Thank you. Mr Józef Lassot, the Civic Platform Club, now has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u216	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Club, I have the honour to present the position of the club vis-à-vis the draft Act on the pursuit of business activities in the field of the manufacture and marketing of explosives, weapons, ammunition and military or police-purpose products and technology. The print containing the government submission is 3347 and the committee's report 3429. The current Act of 22 June 2001 on the pursuit of economic activities in the field of the manufacture and marketing of explosives, weapons, ammunition and military or police-purpose products and technology no longer meets the current requirements of both the Polish and European legal environment, as well as the business environment for carrying out this regulated business activity. First of all, it was necessary to seal the arms flow control system, which was undoubtedly influenced by tragic terrorist attacks in Brussels and Paris. The scope of the regulation includes explosives, weapons and ammunition used by the military, the police and other state armed formations, as well as military and police-purpose products and technology for the production of these products. The proposal for a new law does not contain solutions that significantly alter the existing legislation, it maintains the concessions already granted, but introduces new obligations arising directly from European law, in particular as regards the system of tracing weapons, exporting weapons and stripping the performance of firearms. The bill is very extensive and it is a specialist law. It is difficult to discuss individual solutions, but I would like to draw attention to two elements, which are also the subject of two amendments which the club will make, as has already been mentioned in the case of minority proposals. Namely, this concerns the article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, where reference is made to the fact that an appeal against a medical certificate shall not only be granted to the person applying for it but also to the authority granting the licence as well as to the trader. It does not seem appropriate for as specific activities as a medical examination to interfere with bodies that do not necessarily have an interest in it. You have to trust the doctors. Of course, the person being examined has the right to do so, but we propose that this appeal be eliminated by the authority which grants the concession as well as by the trader. And the second recipe. This has also been mentioned, but I will repeat that in cases involving the withdrawal of concessions... At the moment, the draft law provides that, where a withdrawal procedure is initiated in the event of non-compliance with conditions, until this decision to revoke the concession is in place, the trader should have the right to continue to operate properly. We therefore propose to delete this point in Article. Paragraph 24 3. This applies to point 2. So that the club had its various doubts and comments, but the law is so important that the club will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u217	Mr Marek Wójcik, 50 seconds.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u218	Yes, sir, thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to draw attention to the fact that this law does not seem to satisfy anybody, because the act contains an annex which is a translation from the directive, but the problem is that it contains concepts which at the moment do not function in Polish legal trade, and therefore Polish entrepreneurs will simply be in a difficult situation because there is a risk of such interpretation of the provisions of the annex, which can simply mislead and may have far-reaching consequences for entrepreneurs who will have to apply this unfortunate annex. I would therefore like to ask the Minister if you will somehow try to clarify some instructions, other files, how to [[♪ The bell ♪]] an annex to the Act will be interpreted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u219	Thank you. Please, Mr Bartosz Józwiak, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u220	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 in relation to the government's draft Act on the pursuit of economic activities in the field of the manufacture and marketing of explosives, weapons, ammunition and military or police-purpose products and technology, print No 3347. I will not go into the details of this project because it has already been discussed by the rapporteur, as well as in previous speeches. Indeed, this is a project which implements the EU directive, which is theoretically created because it is intended to seal the arms trading system, essential parts of weapons, which is intended to result in a significantly improved security within the European Union due to various types of terrorist threats. Will that happen, I dare doubt, because there are several elements in this project that really contradict it. In a moment, I'll pay attention to at least some of them. Is this project a project well prepared? In my opinion, he was prepared by the Ministry very badly. This project was slightly improved, let's say that it was improved to a considerable extent during the work of the subcommittee, for which the Ministry should probably be grateful to the Members of this subcommittee, because this project presented in the basic version contained a lot of things with which it would be very difficult to agree, but it was a project which in my first opinion was actually a project aimed at the good of the Polish state. Some records that tried to smuggle in this project, which were still tried to smuggle in at the committee meeting, were such ideas that really threatened the interests of the Polish state. As part of the work and the subcommittee, and later at the committee meeting, we drew attention to a number of elements that need to be changed in this project. We tabled four amendments during the committee's work. All these amendments were rejected by the committee by the votes of the governing majority, and they are tabled by us as minority proposals. These are more or less such elements as to finally determine exactly what is an important part of the weapon, because an important part of the weapon and a significant part of the weapon are two different things that we should use in this law. The impreciseness of this will have huge consequences for entrepreneurs. The second thing is what was mentioned here, that in fact the licensing authority has the right to undermine the opinion of the doctor's professional. I ask: On what grounds does someone in the ministry have the authority to question a medical opinion that a person is mentally sound enough to receive a licence? At the same time, on the other hand, the person concerned is no longer entitled to appeal against that decision. This is the final decision. This can't be right. And it really doesn't matter if it is in the current legal system, because just because it is, it doesn't mean anything. We have to correct these things. The legislation we make is better than what it was. Another element - punishing the entrepreneur with the withdrawal of the concession already only at the stage when it will be said that any proceedings have been initiated against him. Ladies and gentlemen, I thought we were living in a state of law, i.e. if there is no legal conviction, then the citizen is innocent. I'm curious how Mr. Roman Kluska reacted to this sort of thing, which was sort of the way it was handled. His company was destroyed, and it turned out absolutely wrong. This is where we leave this lock, and this lock is additionally corrupt, because you can pick up this license, and you don't have to. Ladies and gentlemen, who will be comfortable or in some way pleasant to the official, will not be taken away from him. It's a very corrupt recipe. The same is true of the next thing, namely when it comes to testing weapons. There is also a very large limit here, which goes beyond the limits that are in other cases. First of all, there's a time limit, second of all, a limitation that there must be somewhere at least a intent to purchase so that these weapons can be tested. In addition, we will make three further amendments at second reading. These are pretty important things. The first one raises the question I was talking about, namely why this law is not tight. She's not talking about weapons and ammunition technology at all. So we let you have production lines without any concessions and no controls, but we don't just let you have products. And a very important thing, and this is also mentioned here, is an unfortunate annex. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to this annex, this is a tragedy. If we cannot create a good law in Poland, we only use sick, absolutely bad translations, we will always have a problem. By the way, the committee has been misled several times, but this, I think, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'll leave you to it. It's time for tomorrow's vote. Thank you and make three amendments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u221	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, PSL-UED.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u222	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The operation of the Act of 22 June 2001 on the pursuit of economic activities in the field of the manufacture and marketing of explosives, weapons, ammunition and military or police-purpose products and technology has contributed well to the regulation of this very important area over the 18 years of its existence. However, in the meantime there were external conditions which made it necessary to adapt Polish legal standards to the regulation of acts of international law, such as the regulation implementing the Article. 10 of the United Nations Protocol supplementing the United Nations Convention, as well as Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2015/2003 of 15 December 2015 laying down common guidelines on standards and techniques for the removal of weapons of performance in order to ensure that non-commercial weapons are permanently unfit for use. This new comprehensive legal act includes provisions laying down rules on the taking up and pursuit of economic activities by economic operators to the same extent as in the title of the Act and, importantly, lays down rules on the purification of sites from explosives and hazardous materials. The draft law, following its work and in-depth analysis during the work of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Commission, clearly and clearly identifies the issue of the manufacture of explosives, weapons, ammunition and military or police-purpose products and technologies and their marketing. It is worth noting that standards are laid down in the field of mediation, commercial advice, as well as assistance in the conclusion of contracts and the organisation of shipments of explosives, weapons and ammunition. The project clearly defines terms such as ammunition, weapons, firearms, essential parts, essential parts of artillery firearms, barrels or flames. The legislator in the project also specifies several exceptions when the law does not apply. This refers to historical weapons, firearms included in the inventory of museums, as well as weapons not capable of projecting missiles using the energy of products resulting from the chemical reaction of the propelling charge and the cross-section of weapons to present the way the weapons mechanisms work. Particular attention is paid to the fact that the legislator lays down rules on the licensing of economic activities in the area covered by the project, which seems to be particularly important, because special importance is attached to this issue, which means that the licensing authority will be notified in an absolute manner subject to authorisation by the relevant authorities of the State. In order to implement this provision, the conditions, procedures and procedures for the concession awarded shall be clearly defined, paying particular attention to the importance and importance of the medical certificate and psychological decision. Attention should be paid to the fact that the wording of the Article is made. 22 dealing with the refusal of the concession award by the licensing authority, which is of great importance. The regulated regulations define precisely and rigorously the obligations imposed on the trader, as is treated by Section III. At this point, the definition of the process of trafficking in explosives, weapons and ammunition should be raised, giving special powers to customs and treasury authorities. The export and transit of firearms, parts and essential components and ammunition to firearms will be subject to special regulation, which is strictly governed by international and Union law. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Today's regulation is particularly important, as it refers to the broad-based means of fighting and contains provisions on the purification of explosive and hazardous areas, imposing specific obligations on government administrations in this respect. The Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats with understanding accepts the need for a new regulation, especially since it results, as I mentioned at the outset, from international obligations binding on the Republic of Poland. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u223	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u224	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the Government's draft law on the performance of business activities in the field of manufacturing and marketing of explosives, weapons, ammunition and military or police-purpose products and technology. High Izbo! The bill submitted is intended to implement European law. It is worth noting, however, that only five countries have implemented these rules, and those that de facto do not have any big arms industry. On the other hand, the Czech Republic has brought an action before the Court of Justice in relation to the finding that these provisions are compatible with European rules. Poland has also joined this complaint. So, to be honest, the implementation of the legislation is necessary, but it seems that this haste and stubbornness of the government to do so now, before such a thorough discussion of this directive takes place, seems premature and a little surprising. There's no way to discuss the details, so I'm going to focus on the most important things. I have to say, it's already in the article. 24 We are dealing with such a particularly gross provision in the paragraph. Point 3 (2) which will serve as the basis for a decision to withdraw a concession operator only on the basis of the initiation of a criminal investigation. So we are dealing with the full freedom of official decision, without adequacy, even in the case of 1 PLN, without the presumption of innocence. And I must say that these are not European rules, to be clear, these are regulations prepared by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, and these are corruption regulations, this is a highway for corruption. I would very much ask the Minister to explain why you want to allow such rules that allow corruption to happen. Art. 34 - it is not known why you are eliminating the possibility of concluding contracts on a civil basis. This is another hit on business, on economic freedom and it is not reasonable, because it also hits state companies, which your activity, government activity, has led to the brink of endurance. Another thing is the marking of weapons. In many countries there is a discussion on how to sign arms. You guys already have your recipes ready. Perhaps there will be some consensus, it will have to be changed. But you already want this bill to be passed so that entrepreneurs have to do it. Enough of that, this weapon that's already been manufactured and marked in accordance with regulations will have to be marked for the second time. So we're lucky for the bureaucrats, because it's going to have to be put in the system somewhere, and unfortunately costs and burdens for the entrepreneurs, because these weapons are going to have to be branded again. I don't know if that's wise. It seems to me that this has not happened in any European country. Another thing - a restriction on the hire of weapons to persons authorised to test. This is where the Ministry proposed a 14-day rental period. I, to tell you the truth, I thought it was about having guns with people who have the right authority, and the minister said it was about not having a rental company. Minister, this is a recipe that we already know about today, how it will be celebrated. Making such rules is simply counterproductive. Curial situation - Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration proposed in the original bill that weapons intended for the Polish Army should also be registered in the Weapons Registration System. Fortunately, thanks to the vigilance of the social side and the opposition, we cooperated here, the case was informed of the Ministry of National Defence, which had categorically opposed this solution. But that doesn't do it. It needs to be clarified at what stage and who introduced regulations that would allow foreign services to access a complete register of weapons, which is held by the Polish Army. Those are the laws that threatened the security of the state, and they came out of the U.S.S.A. Another thing - the weapons factory, which the government is overseeing, was asking for a transitional period to be introduced for the marking of weapons, because this requires industrial arrangements. And again, the incomprehensible stubbornness of the MMA, which does not want to introduce such a transitional period, which will, of course, result in chaos. And you could multiply, multiply, multiply. But to recap. The government bill will cause chaos in the arms and explosives market, contains corruption rules, contrary to logic and common sense, which should be present in this area, strikes companies, people employed there. This Directive has only been implemented by five countries and has been addressed to the Court of Justice. It's incomprehensible. [[♪ The bell ♪]] why the government insists on speeding it up. That is why I request that this project be rejected at second reading, and if it is not rejected, I propose that at least the date of entry into force be postponed to 1 July 2020 and that the Directive be improved on the one hand and that provisions that will not create chaos on the other hand be prepared. Thank you very much. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u225	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to speak, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Time - one and a half minutes. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u226	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask you about the question of Art. 14, and in particular whether, where the outcome of the review referred to in that Article amends the decision being the subject of the appeal, the fee should not be returned to the appellant who issued the defective judgment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u227	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u228	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question. In the last 15 years around 1600 concessions have been issued, of which 400 concessions have expired for various reasons - I do not want to go into details. So I'm asking. : Do you think that these changes which are introduced in this law have contributed to the greater interest of companies in this activity or, on the contrary, this law will make it difficult to carry out this type of activity, so we can count on the further expiry of the licences issued? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u229	Thank you. Mr Marek Wójcik.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u230	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question about the obligation to shoot off three shell casings with a new weapon. Well, the law actually waives this obligation, which was included in its current text, while these are provisions which in Poland are probably still applicable since the time of the Polish People's Republic, since 2001 - on the basis of the law, but earlier, since 1990 - on the basis of the gun trade regulation. I remember that in law, in forensics class I was taught that this is a very good solution, which clearly seals the trade in weapons and affects our safety, while the opinion of practitioners was completely different, i.e. that this obligation to shoot off and later store these casings is actually unnecessary. I would like to remind you that after these many years of storage of shell casings, it is estimated that there are already several dozen tons of shell casings stored in the headquarters of the voivodship police, which are simply lying in bags somewhere in the basements of these commands. I would therefore like to ask the Minister: What will happen after this law comes into force with this collection of shell casings that are now in the possession of the police? I would also like to ask: Have the data from the collection ever been used to identify the perpetrator of the crime? If the Minister can't answer me now, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm asking for a detailed written reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u231	Thank you. Mr Józef Lassota.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u232	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! I would like to refer to the article. 68, which, of course, refers to the prohibition of rental and lending, but there are some exceptions. Exceptions, these two exceptions... One concerns this replacement weapon for repairs, repairs, and the other - for testing before the purchase of weapons. Normally art, of course. 102 says the gun has to be registered in the weapons registration system for up to five days. Here in the case of this repair and replacement weapon is actually unlimited, so someone can actually use it for years, it doesn't go through the gun registration system. I would like to ask: What documentation is carried out in the event that this weapon is lent or is passed on by the one who is performing the repair, as well as by the one who sells the weapon? What kind of documentation is that? Is it stored at the right time so that it can be returned to it years later in case it turns out that this weapon was used in some inappropriate way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u233	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u234	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question about the attachment. At the meeting of both the subcommittee and later the committee, this annex to the law, which is extremely important for the proper functioning of the system of registration of weapons, was repeatedly criticised for its, to be clear, imperfect content and form. I wanted to ask the Minister: Why didn't you try to change the agreement of this annex with the European Commission at the drafting stage of the law, which lasted at least a few weeks, if not many months? Because during the committee meeting we were even lied to as members that some actions had been taken, including the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but in fact it turned out that no action had taken. Then why the neglect? Why did you not apply due diligence when designing the provisions of this law so that the definitions contained in the annex correspond to the actual technical terminology which is used precisely in the area that this draft law standardises? It seems like a lot of neglect. That's why I'm interested in whether you've even thought about it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u235	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Paweł Majewski, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. Even before the Minister starts, I will only warmly welcome the young people who are listening to our debate - the winners of the road safety competition organized in Radom. I'm so glad to see you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u236	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to thank you very warmly for your parliamentary work on this bill by Mr Czartoryski, President of the sub-committee of Mrs Siarski, all of you. We as the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, before this law had already reached the legislative work in Parliament, responded to the invitation of Members and met in Parliament with the social side, with entrepreneurs. We've been working on this bill. Previously, there had been consultations with parliamentarians and the social side. Work on this law has been going on for a long time not only within the Ministry, but also with Members, with representatives of arms producers. What this legislative process looks like today is the result of our openness to clarifying this law. We are in so much a difficult situation that we need to implement EU law, we need to implement the EU directive. Member States or producers' representatives indicate that they were better, for example. solutions that have been in place so far. We do not always have the opportunity to implement these solutions. We cannot always agree to this because we are limited by how it was constructed, how it was adopted at European Union level. That is why some of these things, as regards the proposals that we have put forward, which you are talking about, look like this and not different. On the other hand, to answer the questions of Mr Suchonia, I would like to say that he is the Sejm, but there is also the Senate. We will, through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, continue to try with the European Commission these things which raise doubts, especially as regards this annex, to clarify. Unfortunately, the logic of the implementation process is that certain concepts are explained. As a Member State, we do not want to be exposed to any dispute with the European Commission, but we understand the demands that you are raising here. That's why we're gonna be working on this annex. Fortunately, the SRB's Gun Registration System is still a few months away. He doesn't come in until December. It doesn't interfere. There are still a few months before this annex can be amended. I would like to say that we are open to making the proposed changes. This legislative process, as I say, is not over yet. On the other hand, in answer to Mr Pyzik's question about this fee, I would like to say that the doctor has carried out the examination, so the reimbursement of the fee for this examination seems impossible because it is not paid for the decision, but for the service itself in the case of this study. As regards Mr Meysztowicz's question, this law, as I have already said, is the implementation of EU law. We move here within certain rules laid down by EU legislation. In our view, however, this will not hinder the pursuit of this activity. The licensing rules in some areas are less stringent than they used to be. In the case of licensing rules, little is changed, and in some places they are even simplified. As regards Mr Wójcik's question on shell casings, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration has repeatedly answered Members' questions concerning investigations involving these shell casings. This is the activity of the state, among others. Member States, e.g. Mrs Sarkowska was concerned with the obligation to shoot off shell casings, which was pointless. He imposed certain obligations on businesses, but he did not produce any results in the case of justice. As a result of this activity, the Ministry has analysed this situation and we have indeed withdrawn from this obligation. During the whole period of the Third Polish Republic, when it comes to all our governments, our predecessors, no one leaned on it. [[The PiS was in charge, too.]] Also in the rule of the Civic Platform and PSL for 8 years no one has used these casings. I do not recall this law changing the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club or changing it from then to the management of the Ministry of Interior and Administration. This is only happening now. These casings were collected also then. Well, the law doesn't work backwards, so this bill doesn't regulate these scales. [[Minister, answer the question.]] As to Mr Lassota's question, there is no such concern. The person accepting the arms for repair shall be required to designate each operation in the Weapons Registration System. At every stage, we'll know who's the gun owner, what kind of weapon. Even if this weapon is only released for repairs, such an operation will be recorded in SRB. Once again, thank you very much for working on this bill. And thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u237	And I thank the Minister. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Well? [[Corrigendum.]] Okay, Mr Wojcik, as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u238	Yeah, just a few seconds. Minister, thank you, you tried to answer my question, and I know that the bill doesn't regulate it. Therefore, I would like to ask what you will do, whether this collection will continue to be kept by the police and whether this new provision applies de facto to the situation after the bill has been passed, or whether the collection that was collected in the police voivodeship commands will simply be disposed of. This is a question about what, of course, is not provided for in the Act, but the decision on what to do with this collection is the consequence of the adoption of the solutions you have proposed. Hence my question and I ask for your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u239	Do you want a minister? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u240	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The question is to the chief of police. I don't feel authorized to answer on his behalf. The Act refers to the current situation and I can respond to the current situation. These casings will no longer be stored. What's gonna happen to these collections, these magazines, that's a question for the chief of police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u241	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. Since, at the time of the second reading, a motion for rejection and amendments were submitted to the draft law, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the Senate draft law amending the Act on Cooperative Law (prints No. 2435 and 3449). I ask Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u242	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the Senate draft law amending cooperative law, print No 2435. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent the above draft law to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development for first reading on 11 April 2018. The Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, following its first reading and the examination of this draft law at its meeting on 14 May 2019, requests the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. The committee held a discussion on the proposed changes, which in principle limited itself to the question of the amendment which was tabled. Namely, in the project it was assumed that in the case of proceedings already started and not completed with the inclusion of cooperatives as companies of commercial law in the register of entrepreneurs... So far it has been possible to assume that this delay may also result from the fact that the courts unfortunately have difficulty entering quickly into the register of entrepreneurs. We have therefore considered that, however, with regard to processes that have been initiated and maybe even completed, and only this last stage is not implemented, it is necessary to give the possibility to apply the provisions of the previous law. This amendment was accepted by the committee. So that I ask once again for this bill to be passed along with this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u243	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Waldemar Olejniczak, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u244	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club on the draft law amending cooperative law, print No 2435. The draft entered the Sejm on 16 March 2018 and concerns the alignment of the provisions with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 16 June 2015 and the order of 15 July 2015. It concerns cooperative law, Dz. U. z 2017 poz. 1560 and 1569. The law is basically about one thing. Part I of Title II repeals Section VI, which results in the prohibition of a housing cooperative being transformed into a commercial company. The establishment of a new entity on the basis of a cooperative will only be possible if the housing cooperative ceases to function formally as an economic entity, i.e. When it's destroyed. High Izbo! The Law and Justice Club is in favour of this law and will vote in favour. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u245	Thank you very much. Mr Stanisław Lamczyk presented his position in writing. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak too. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u246	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is my pleasure to present the position of the Modern Club regarding this bill. In fact, this proposal basically completes one message, which is to bring the system of law into line with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. It is a judgment of June 2015. Unfortunately, it is a pity that sometimes we prepare laws that follow the recommendations and judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal for so long. It is a good thing that in this case, almost four years later, there is a situation like this. As regards the reservations of the Constitutional Tribunal, it was basically one thing, namely that if members of cooperatives who do not participate and are not interested in taking part in the conversion of cooperatives into a company governed by commercial law, they may receive part of the resources available to the cooperative but up to 10%. These measures. The Court considered this unfair because these measures should be at least in the amount that the person concerned has invested as a contribution to the cooperative. The situation is that a person who agrees to transfer the value of these shares to a newly created commercial law company gets the funds in full. The resources at its disposal shall be rewritten as a share in the company under commercial law. And the person who is not interested in it gets a much smaller amount, because only 10% These measures. It was therefore appropriate to refer this objection to the Constitutional Court, which considered that these provisions were indeed incorrect. Therefore, the cooperative law removes the section on this particular issue. Therefore, there is nothing left to do but actually adopt this law so that it fulfils its assumptions regarding the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. As I said at the outset, it was a good thing that the amendment led to the situation that those proceedings which had already been initiated and not completed with an entry in the register of entrepreneurs could have been carried out on the basis of those provisions which had been in force so far. In this way, transitional provisions should be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u247	Thank you very much. Do any Members want to ask questions? I have two written down, but I suspect Mr. Meysztowicz no longer wants to. [[I could have stayed.]] You could have stayed. In that case, sir. Mr. Honestly, there isn't.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u248	Mr. Marshal! Minister! It can be seen that the Act on Cooperatives is not a favorite in the Parliamentary Chamber, because the number of Members involved in the process is not large and it is a senate project. I have a question: Is there any information about how many of these actors, as far as cooperatives are concerned, initiated a transformation process that has not been completed? The point is that we should know what the scale is when it comes to those who will actually be able to benefit from this amendment that we voted on at the committee meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u249	Thank you very much. I invite the Undersecretary of State to the Ministry of Justice of Mr Łukasz Piebiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u250	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In replying very briefly to Mr Meysztowicz's question, I point out, referring to the OSR, that, according to the knowledge we have, there are three such entities that could be transformed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u251	Mr Meysztowicz? No. In that case, thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u252	High Seym! Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I will present my position on the report of the committee on the Senate bill amending the Act on Cooperative Law. The proposed solution consists in repealing the provisions allowing labour cooperatives to be transformed into a company governed by commercial law. Following the introduction of the proposed regulation, a change in the form of work carried out by the cooperative will only be possible through the prior liquidation of the cooperative. The PSL-UED Club supports this draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u253	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Senate draft law amending the Cooperative Law concerns the alignment of the right to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 16 June 2015, K 25/12, and the provisions of the Constitutional Tribunal of 15 July 2015, S 5/15, by excluding the possibility of transforming cooperatives into commercial companies. This means that a change in the way the cooperative operates will only be possible through the prior liquidation of the cooperative. The proposed regulation will increase the regulatory burden since, compared to the current legislation, the transformation of labour cooperatives into a commercial company will require additional tasks set out in cooperative law, and consequently will extend the process of transforming labour cooperatives into an entity governed by commercial law. This regulation will apply to a relatively small sector and will have a positive impact as the rights of cooperative members will be better protected. The Committee on Economic Affairs and Development recommends the adoption of a law amending the law on cooperative law. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club supports the proposed changes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u254	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. Ladies and gentlemen, I declare a five-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 minutes 43 hours 14 min 59]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Penal Code Act and some other laws (print No 3451). I ask the President of the Council of Ministers of Mr Mateusz Morawiecki to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u255	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear fellow countrymen! Today we are faced with a very important decision, before the decision on amendments to the Penal Code, and the Penal Code, criminal law is one of the main elements, the pillars that determine the order of values in each country. And today we have to answer the basic question which Poland we want - whether we want a fair Poland for everyone, whether it is lenient, tolerant for the transgressors, for the bandits, for the bad people, whether we want Poland, which is determined, we definitely act towards people who have been guilty beyond any doubt, and it has been cruelly blamed, or for Poland that is lenient, Poland, which allows inappropriate, extremely pathological behaviour often. Hence the proposal that we make before the High House. At the Council of Ministers' meeting, we adopted a draft amendment to the Penal Code, which meets the needs for which Law and Justice have always advocated. Because it must be emphasized with all power, High Izbo, that Law and Justice is the political formation that has always tried to fight in the name of the weaker one, the injured one, on behalf of the victim, and not to be tolerant, indulgent to the perpetrators, sometimes, you can say, to the oppressors. Because that is the first way to describe what happened to child molesters when their sexual freedom was violated by paedophiles. And here it is worth recalling that, at the very beginning, Law and Justice in this term have taken very decisive action against paedophiles. It was our actions that led the High House to pass the pedophile register. Here, we must also remind you of how the majority of the Civic Platform voted. The majority of the Civic Platform unfortunately did not vote in favour of the pedophile register, but abstained. So today I call on Members of the European Coalition to vote in favour of tightening the penalties, which we have proposed and what I will discuss in a few points. And it is worth noting that today, too, people from liberal and extremely liberal backgrounds are in favour of tightening penalties. There are numerous statements about it that can be read, registered, watched on TV, listened to on the radio. But it is obvious to everyone, and it must be emphasized here, that the Law and Justice was the formation which was behind this not only for 4 years, but since the beginning of its uprising, since Lech Kaczyński, who as Minister of Justice sought to ensure that penalties were appropriate to the crime, so that no suspended penalties could be imposed, in the so-called so-called. hinges, because it is very often an insult to the fundamental sense of justice in society. This can't be right. Thus Law and Justice from the very beginning formulated their philosophy, their axiology in relation to the Penal Code and in relation to all the crimes that were committed. And we know such in the territory of already III of the Republic of Poland very numerous, unfortunately we know them too much, when the law was applied too leniently. And so it was with a lot of pedophiles. Well, judges often used penalties that were suspended in cases of obvious crimes against children's sexual freedom. This can't be right. Our proposals aim to ensure that there are bigger forks, depending on the assessment of the real harm, the actual pathology of the act, the forks that will be in the hands of the judge, but that there is no possibility of mild, extremely mild penalties being imposed on people who commit shameful acts. [[Or cover up by a subordinate.]] [[Voice from the room: Quiet.]] Therefore, dear fellow countrymen, we must raise certain penalties, which are set out too gently in the Penal Code. [[Voice from the room: they must be cut down.]] We raise them in relation to child pornography, we raise them in relation to prohibited acts. And when it comes to child pornography and child harming, here I will remind the Members of the European Coalition, since they are so concerned about the case of a psychologist, how did she then... [[Peterovich, Peterovich.]] ...playing, breaking which newspapers gave support to the person who was in prison at the time, in custody as a result of their actions. Now you have silenced Mr. Hartman's shameful words, for example. [[Voice from the room: Piotrowicz, your Member.]] Somehow you're not calling him your protector now, but he's the one with his extremes... [[Peter was defending a paedophile.]] [[Voice from the room: Quiet down there.]] ...liberal acolytes just as well defended incest, defended very reprehensible acts in well-known and accessible quotations. Our actions towards tightening the Penal Code, High Izbo, are aimed at ensuring that the courts actually apply higher penalties first and foremost, but also the inevitability of punishment. I think we all agree here, in the High House, also our political adversaries, that in addition to the amount of the penalty, in addition to the appropriateness of the penalty to the act committed, the inevitability of the penalty is crucial. Therefore, I would appeal to this, I ask the High House to vote according to what your conscience tells you, not according to the various parties... [[Peterovich.]] ...recommendations and preferences, only for tightening these penalties, because in our opinion, this is the approach we will be able to reduce the range of pathology that exists in society. That's the approach, not, for example. proposed by the Civic Platform already nice a few years ago so-called. The pharmacological castration, which was supposed to exist, but it turned out to be just a point for discussion, at the same time questioned constitutionally, so let's leave it on the side. Only a real tightening of penalties, the adequacy of these penalties, the inevitability of penalties can lead to a real reduction in those extreme pathologies that are so horribly... [[But what inevitability if you don't accuse them.]] ...and rightly so, we are all outraged by this film that has recently been shown by Mr. Sekielski. [[Voice from the hall: And rightly, ha, ha!]] Besides, it is worth mentioning one more thing here, which is so characteristic of the law and justice environment. It is a pity that it was not shown immediately in this film, but later Mr. Sekielski admitted that a significant proportion of these perpetrators, these oppressors, these terrible people were registered as secret security officers. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] [[Voice from the room: scandal.]] I am now asking the High House, which political formations from the very beginning were in favour of an illustration which the political camp was in favour of decommunization. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Piotrowicz.]] [[Voice from the room: Bullshit.]] Ladies and gentlemen, today, now, at this moment, I can say hit the table and the scissors will speak up, because so far... [[Voice from the room: Piotrowicz.]] [[Voice from the room: Where is it?]] ...with what I've been saying, you've been pretty calm, but it hurts the most, as I see this element, a reminder of the communist past, and now you're making the most noise. [[Applause]] [[One in Warsaw, who is she?]] That's very interesting, don't you think, that just reminding you of that fact? I'm not saying, of course, that he's the most important one. I recall it as an essential element of our ideology, our axiology... [[Voice from the room: Ideology, right? Ideology?]] ...in an expression of the fact that within 30 years it was the Law and Justice, previously the Centre's Agreement, which demanded the vetting and decommunization. [[Oh, you guys did great.]] So it has to be said, ladies and gentlemen, that if it were, if there were a mirror, we could avoid a number of such cases, because these people would not be, they could no longer be blackmailed by their security officers. [[Applause]] Now, more or less, I'll quote a certain person, ladies and gentlemen. Note: Minister Ziobro did more to fight pedophiles than his predecessors. Who said that? [[The voice from the room: Gazeta Wyborcza.]] [[You.]] That was not said by anyone in Law and Justice. This was said by Mrs Kopińska from the Large Format of the Gazeta Wyborcza. [[Applause]] So, since our adversaries also make clear to the Ideas in favour of tightening the penalties, in favour of their real inevitability to be adequate, I would like to ask the High House once again these fundamental questions. From the point of view of criminal law axiology, what kind of Poland are we in favour of? [[Voice from the room: No Peterovich.]] For fair to all, especially to the weak, to the helpless... [[No Peterovich.]] [[Voice from the room: You're in pain.]] [[You're in pain.]] ...to the children, or to the indulgent towards the bandits, to the disgusting transgressions, to the disgraceful transgressions? [[Voice from the room: 4 years.]] Law and Justice is in favour of Poland determined, not for Poland... [[Voice from the hall: Behind Peterovich.]] ...indulgent and tolerant of such shameful transgressions as paedophile transgressions. [[Peterovich likes it.]] Therefore, once again I ask the High House to adopt in this procedure, an urgent procedure, very good changes that we have been working on for several months, for several quarters... [[Tell me what's in this bill, not...]] ...strengthening penalties in the Penal Code for the most serious crimes. I'm stressing them for the most serious crimes, including paedophile crimes. Thank you very much. [[Long-term applause]] [[Have you read this document? Have you read it? There's nothing there about it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u256	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I ask the Minister of Justice of the Attorney General, Mr Zbigniew Ziobra, to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u257	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The fight against crime is one of the fundamental responsibilities of the State. It is our primary duty to ensure the safety of citizens, especially those who are most vulnerable, who are most vulnerable to criminals. Unfortunately, not always and not everyone sees this duty the same way. There are those who say that only inevitability is sufficient so that criminals can be pursued effectively. They forget, however, that what if the perpetrator is inevitably arrested if he is released again in a moment and can again commit the same wicked, horrible, disgusting acts that he may have committed before he was arrested. So what if he can do it again when he takes a short prison sentence if the rehabilitation effect doesn't work, and unfortunately we know that this effect works very rarely. And we also know that harm to victims, harm to children is horrible, difficult to measure and has life-long consequences for the affected, mutilated child, because to children first, of course, I refer, although the Penal Code we present here includes very broad changes in criminal policy, not only regarding matters related to paedophile crime. However, from this issue naturally, in connection with the discussion that is taking place today in the country, with an extremely hot and lively debate based on the appalling facts that have been presented to the public, I begin with this matter. Criminal law must be sufficiently strict, because it must also deter potential perpetrators from committing a crime by reaching their imagination with a clear message: if you commit such a cruel act, the state's response will be ruthless and very painful. But the Penal Code must also guarantee the so-called. an insulating function. We know that especially those criminals who looked after their children as their victims are the most vulnerable to return to their criminal ways. They're the least likely to undergo a rehabilitation process. Studies of various sciences, from criminology to sexology, indicate that unfortunately, the number of people who commit this kind of crime again is significant. Therefore, it is our duty to weigh the points and to show what is more important to us, whether it is more important for us to have an interest in the perpetrator and give him another chance, whether the child's interests are more important, the perspective of his suffering, pain, and all that can be associated with the experience of sexual harassment, not to mention rape or rape with the particular cruelty that children experience. Therefore, we consistently implement a programme to improve the level of protection of children in Poland, which we announced during the last election campaign. That is why - Prime Minister Morawiecki spoke about it - despite the huge protests of the opposition, we have introduced a register of paedophiles. This register consists of two elements: a public register which includes the most disgusting actions of those committed by the perpetrators, linked to their particular cruelty and exceptional demoralization... [[And secret...]] ...and a register that covers other, less drastic cases. [[Voice from the hall: Priests.]] And there are those who claim, what is vile and vile, that the ledger prepared by us had supposedly... [[Voice from the hall: Where is the register of priests?]] ...to protect certain professional groups, e.g. Priests. This is a despicable and despicable statement, which is expressed in numerous court proceedings brought by the editors. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] [[Voice from the room: But they're not in the register.]] I trust that those who are making this kind of lying thesis from the opposition today will not hide behind immunity when we get on the right legal path and the lawsuit comes to them, and I assure you they will. [[Applause]] [[Don't scare, don't scare.]] The truth must be defended, and it cannot be accepted to be so brilliantly hypocritical and manipulative. Those who voted against the pedophile registry are still manipulating and lying today. It's not gonna be okay. There will be an answer, and there will be trials. This isn't just scaring the facts. The truth must be sought in court. I'm going back to the proposals we're making. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, we are introducing far-reaching changes to the general section of the Criminal Code, which regulates the general principles of the penalty. Today, the penalty in the Penal Code is quite rigidly imposed: courts can rule sentences between 1 month and 15 years of imprisonment, 25 years of imprisonment and life imprisonment. In fact, life imprisonment is a life sentence by name alone. In fact, in today's circumstances, there is no way to prosecute a life sentence. We want to change this and introduce such a penalty with this amendment. The most important change we are introducing is the possibility for the courts to rule in a more flexible way, namely from 1 month to 25 years of imprisonment. We're eliminating 25 years of imprisonment. What does that mean? This means that today the courts, ruling penalties e.g. for cruel rape, they cannot punish 17 or 27 years of imprisonment because they are bound by such rigid restrictions. Thanks to our changes, they will be able to do so and properly and adequately assess the guilt and evil committed by the perpetrator of the crime. It can be different, especially if the perpetrators committed acts in multiplayer configurations, they acted in a criminal group. Their role may have been different and then the very severe punishment imposed should be adapted to the guilt and evil for which individual perpetrators are responsible. In addition to this fundamental change in the general section of the Penal Code, which also introduces, as I mentioned earlier, the possibility of life imprisonment, we introduce in the Code a number of amendments which order the courts to take greater account of the aggravating circumstances that often escape them in the execution of punishment, especially when we are dealing with these cruel, brutal crimes. We are making far-reaching changes when it comes to punishing the perpetrators of the redecisive, namely those who return to the way of crime, and especially those who do so once again. [[To teenagers.]] Today they are treated very gently. It can be said that the severity of the penalties for them is purely symbolic. That's gonna change radically. The changes we are making are also intended to significantly limit the possibility of conditional early release of perpetrators, especially those who have no hope of improvement and who can be expected to return to crime. The courts will be armed with additional tools they don't have today. This will serve security, among others. children. Regardless of the changes in the general section of the Criminal Code, we also make a number of changes to the special section, the one that regulates specific records striking criminals. Today, the penalty provided for in the Penal Code for rape is between three and 15 years of imprisonment. If this is rape with special cruelty, the penalty is between 5 and 15 years imprisonment. Change is fundamental: we introduce a number of types of actions, one can say that some kind of casuistics. We are doing this in a thoughtful way, bearing in mind the current case law and recognising that it is by the will of the legislator that we should show that we want to punish the perpetrators of certain types of criminal behaviour much more severely. Let me give you an example. If a minor is raped below 16 years of age, we propose a sentence of imprisonment from 5 to 15 years, as it is today, but since... today it has been for 3 years at all. We propose five to 30 years' imprisonment. Actually, it's from 3 to 15 years old. This is a change which is a very clear signal showing the absolute will of the state to fight against such criminals. [[And that's gonna help with the paedophile priests?]] If the rape of a minor under the age of 16 occurs in a situation where he is under the care of the perpetrator, i.e. under the care of someone who by profession or function - a teacher, catechists, therapists, the person who is the trainer - carries out this care and commits such an act, the offence, then we introduce an tightening of the penalty in such a way that we increase her lower dimension from 5 years of imprisonment to 8. For such a crime, then, there will be a penalty of between 8 and 30 years of imprisonment. Why the lower sentence? Because the assessment of the practice of the functioning of the Polish judiciary shows that the courts unfortunately have a tendency to adjudicate within the lower limits. Unfortunately, this is demonstrated by the very sad statistics that the Justice Institute's research has shown. It shows that e.g. In the case of sexual abuse offences, more than 40% of sentences are suspended sentences and 60% are suspended sentences. judgments, if they are already passed, are judgments which oscillate within the lower limits of the threat of punishment. Hence, this is an important change: from 8 to 30 years imprisonment. If rape of a minor under the age of 16 was linked to a particular cruelty, we are increasing this lower limit, it will be a threat from 10 to 30 years imprisonment. Similarly, if the result of the act is death, the penalty will be imprisonment from 10 to 30 years or life imprisonment. To explain to those who are not lawyers, Karnists, that this applies to a situation in which the perpetrator of the murder cannot be attributed, and the result of the act, this extremely disgusting, brutal act, going on, is death. [[But it's about pedophilia?]] That's what's going on with pedophile crimes. These are exactly what we're talking about. [[Voice from the Hall: In the Church?]] If anyone listens and has ears, he hears it's about rape of a minor under the age of 16. [[In the church?]] That's what I'm talking about, and that's what I'm talking about. This situation concerns the criminal sanctions we are introducing. Sometimes it happens that rape is cruel enough that after months, even hospitalization, a person dies. There was a story recently in Łódź. I reacted as the Attorney General, demanding a ruthless and firm action by the prosecution against the perpetrators, of course within the current legal constraints imposed by the Penal Code. There was an extremely violent rape of a woman, an adult, in various ways, with various tools. I won't go into details, but this woman was so wounded and mutilated that, unfortunately, they couldn't save her at the hospital anymore. She died of infectious processes. It wasn't a homicide in this case, because the unsubs weren't working towards the homicide, but they were working towards such a large mutilation that it resulted in death. Therefore, in such situations, the sentence of life imprisonment in my view is a just and just punishment. As regards the second type of crime, the sexual exploitation of a minor under the age of 15 - I would remind you that we have two main types of crime, namely rape and sexual exploitation of minors; today it is under the age of 15, it is art. 200 Penal Code - this is the first change I will mention here, which is to raise the age of protection for minors to 16 years old. This, of course, also applies to rape crimes. This is change one. Secondly, we also differentiate between prohibited acts, where we want penalties to increase significantly. Thus sexual intercourse with a minor under 16 years of age will be punishable by a penalty of between 2 and 15 years and not from 2 to 12 years, as it is today, while in the case of sexual intercourse with a minor under 16 years of age, if the act is a serious injury to health, the penalty will be between 3 and 20 years of imprisonment. If sexual intercourse with a minor under the age of 7, then imprisonment will also be between 3 and 20 years. Another case: sexual intercourse with a minor under the age of 7. If a personal injury is caused by an act, the sentence of imprisonment will be between 5 and 25 years. It is also a fundamental change in the scope of tightening criminal liability: it was from 2 to 12 years old, it is from 5 to 25 years old. I think that says a lot. Ladies and gentlemen! A very important change in all these crimes - yes, precisely those crimes: paedophiles, sexual freedom and morals, against minors, against children - is the introduction of a new rule, the principle of non-prevention of rapes. These crimes will never be statute-barred. It's a novum. Why do we feel that this is the right solution? Because the crimes of rape bring so tragic traumas, pain and suffering to the victim that only after years, sometimes after very, very many, sometimes in adult life, a person is ready to face this trauma and tell law enforcement about the pain and suffering that has been caused to her. That is why we believe, in terms of statute of limitations, that it should not be possible to give the perpetrator a chance, that the perpetrator should not be preferred. Here the Penal Code must stand firm and clearly on the side of a child who has been so cruelly wounded if it was a rape act, and therefore we want to eliminate the possibility of limitation of such crimes. The possibility of disabling conditional early release. Well, as I mentioned, there are cases that are particularly drastic and against the perpetrator of the rape of minors under the age of 16 who are suspected of action, even with sexual preference disorder... There is no reason, I stress, for any reason to give this man a chance and hope that he will ever be released. He should be in prison for the rest of his days after the terrible work he did, and La Trynziewicz should never see the world from beyond the bars again. This is what the welfare of children requires, and that is what responsibility requires, not to mention justice, and that is why we want the punishment of absolute life in such cases to be foreseen. We are also introducing a new rule, namely a mandatory rule, which is mandatory, one which the court must apply - today it may and will have to - a criminal measure in the form of a ban on contacting the victim, a restraining order against the victim or a periodic order to leave the premises occupied together with the victim if the victim so requests. In this sense, we also strengthen the position of the victim. Her motion is binding on the court. The court can't. [[♪ The bell ♪]] discuss with the will of the victim. Ladies and gentlemen! My time is limited. [[I'll see you in October.]] I would add, therefore, that we are making changes in the pedophile register, so that it is possible to define precisely who was doing the profession at the time of his education. Today, the record of paedophiles does not provide such knowledge, because there we are looking for Kowalski, who was convicted and not Kowalski, who did a certain profession. Thanks to this change - of course after the corresponding vacathio legis, because you need to prepare an IT system - it will be possible. This knowledge may be valuable in terms of groups of people who have gone there, and possible police actions that will facilitate the search for future perpetrators if there is a question of return to crime and suspicion that the perpetrator has committed another act. Ladies and gentlemen! In addition to the changes I have mentioned, this proposal we are proposing is a very powerful hit on organized crime, i.e. professional criminals who commit cruel acts and act in collusion, acting professionally. We believe that they must face a much stricter response from the state than is the case today. Therefore, a number of amendments concern the limitation of the conditional early release related to more stringent treatment of continuous offences, where the court can rule on a penalty increased by half, a number of amendments concern the re-decision, including multiple re-decisions, where the severity of the penalties which the courts may impose is very striking in the operation of organised criminal groups, in the operation of mafia criminal structures. We're consistent here. It was us, the government in your opposition, who imposed a penalty of 25 years for criminal groups who robbed Poland of VAT. [[What does that have to do with pedophilia?]] Thanks to this change and after this change, VAT crime has been radically reduced in Poland. The criminals got scared, ran away, rolled up, and the money began to influence the state budget. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: But are we talking about paedophiles in the Catholic Church?]] Thanks to this, children, just as children, have different protection: social protection, 500 PLN, because our government kept its word. Prime Minister Morawiecki, Prime Minister Szydło, our entire coalition of good change works consistently in the social area, supporting children, in the criminal area, and you are against it. [[How's your brother at the PZU?]] You were against 500+ for children. I remember what Donald Tusk said, your leader, what Rostowski said. We remember. When you were opposed to tightening the pedophile's sentence, we remember. I hope the Poles will remember too. [[Applause]] [[What's this? So, the election?]] Let me give you another example of how to tighten up penalties for other crimes. I'm just gonna give you an example. Robbery - today there is punishment from 2 to 12 years, it will be from 2 to 15 years, armed robbery - is from 3 to 15 years, it will be from 3 to 20 years, it will be to 15 years old, and it will be up to 20 years old, participation in organized group - up to 20 years old, kidnapping for ransom - up to 20 years old, etc. We are introducing a tightening of penalties, but not for all crimes, not for the small ones, not for those committed by chance, not for those committed unintentionally, not for those small ones of an economic nature, but for the most brutal ones, aimed at the health, life and freedom of Poles and children... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: When the Prime Minister has money in the bank, there is no crime.]] ...because we protect what is most precious, and we will do it against you as you oppose it. We are also introducing new types of crime, e.g. Theft of license plates. [[But can you speak calmly, Minister? There's no need to scream.]] Today it's a misdemeanor, it's common, and the change we've proposed... [[There's no need to scream.]] ...she also has that in mind. And finally, the fight against the big economic scandals. [[The voice from the room:]] Here, too, we are hitting this biggest corruption crime and, as far as penalties are concerned today against those we propose, this is indeed a fundamental difference in criminal policy. I think it's gonna work because white collars think and think about the consequences of their economic moves. And at the end of the day, I can say one thing completely. It's said that inevitability counts, and it doesn't matter how harsh it is. Both counts the same way, these things are connected. The state is more effective if the judicial authority can count on the criminal to be afraid, because then he's also more cooperative... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Then accept our bill.]] ...to break solidarity, to talk about other accomplices of crimes committed. We also asked Poles about this in several studies, several studies of public opinion polls examined it: Kantar, CBOS, Ipsos, on a total group of 4,000. Poles. That's a huge number of people if we add up these tests. And what comes out of this research? On the question of whether criminal law should be tightened up and more severely punished for criminal offences, a positive response was given in the case of 66% Subjects. The question as to whether murder with special cruelty at present should be imposed by a single penalty, in principle a life sentence of imprisonment, is more than 80% responsible for such a harsh view of 80%. Poles. The question as to whether you/your view of intentional homicide perpetrators should be punished more severely than at present, with a positive response, i.e. that it was more severe than 75%. respondents. When asked whether to punish the robbers harshly, 68% answered. respondents. As for the question of punishing the severe perpetrators of rapes - here is an extremely eloquent tightening - 84% Poles believe that rape offenders should be treated harder, and this is also the case with these changes, because not only child rapes. First of all, here we go harder in these presentations and changes. Finally, the question whether you think it is appropriate to pursue the perpetrators of multimillion-dollar fraud more severely, the economic scandals that bring losses to the state, is a positive question, i.e. that it is necessary to pursue harsher than at present, corresponds to 87%. Poles. We respond to the expectations of Poles. We respect Poles, we respect Poles' will, we keep our word and in terms of 500+, and in terms of child protection, and in the fight against great crime, because the security of Poles is priceless for us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u258	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Bartosz Kownacki, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. [[Prime Minister, we have questions. You're not leaving.]] [[Don't be afraid.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u259	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This is a very important amendment, and first of all, we need to talk about the enormous work done by the Ministry of Justice, because this is a thorough, huge revision of substantive criminal law, a series of very interesting, interesting solutions that are the answer to what Law and Justice have done, as well as Minister Zbigniew Ziobro has been saying for 18 years in politics that punishment must be inevitable, must be fair and must also be high. It's also the experience of recent years. Here Minister Ziobro spoke about new types of crime or behaviour that are not being committed today, which had to be described. [[Prime Minister, we have questions.]] [[Prime Minister...]] It's also the Minister's statements about new types, the changes in the catalog of punishments, the introduction of imprisonment until the 1930s, so that judgments handed down by the court are fair... [[He's gone. He's so interested.]] ...so it's not that when the punishment goes to 25 years in prison, and you have to judge a higher one, you can't judge it anymore, because you'd have to go to prison for life. Conversely, when 17 years of prison could be punished, the Penal Code did not know such a solution. This is indeed a very important, important solution for the future of justice, and the Ministry of Justice should be thanked for this work. But that is what happened, and we all know that today's debate coincides with important events, more media, but which concern the drama of the youngest children, drama of children. And in the case of this code, this revision of the Penal Code, without predicting what's happened in the last dozen days, we've worked before to tighten up criminal penalties... [[Game in the O.R.]] Your Marshal, I would very much ask you to bring in people who aren't culturally capable... Even in a case like this, you smile about a case involving children's drama, you have a smile on your face. [[You seem...]] How cynical you must be to laugh even in such a case. [[Applause]] [[You'll ask Peterovich.]] [[Member Kamil Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Party College.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u260	Mr Snapshot... [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please, let's give ourselves a chance to have a quiet debate.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u261	We consistently, as we have been doing for 3 years, have prepared a tightening of penalties also for pedophiles, also for people who commit these disgusting crimes. We have also introduced, introduced, proposed a new type of qualified crimes, namely those under whom these children are specially cared for, i.e. those who take care of them, so that in this kind of very shameful, already most disgusting behaviors this punishment is indeed high and inevitable. That can be done by the state. The state will not change these people, the state may not always act preventively, because it does not have such tools, it would be oppressive, but it can introduce criminal solutions that will deter and eliminate from society people who should never perform such roles in this society, so it is a criminal measure which has been mandatoryly introduced for those who cannot perform certain activities, certain professions, if such a crime is committed. And I must say that I was surprised to see the results of today's vote when some of the parliamentarians, and not on the right side of the political scene, abstained. Because the solutions I'm talking about shouldn't they be introduced? Don't you think that this disgusting crime should be a very, very severe and inevitable punishment? [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: They will not help the victims.]] Then why are you holding back? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] We are ready for discussion, but there is something worse going on in this House, and that is what I hear here from Mrs Gasiuk-Pihowicz, who is shouting out, from Mr Meysztowicz, Mr Modern, from Mr Meysztowicz. The question is, is this about the welfare of the child? [[Member of Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: You for support posts.]] Is this about politics? Is this about playing this... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: This is a bill for appearance.]] ...dramatic political situation? [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Act for appearance.]] And I see in the behaviour of the Member, because it is not appropriate to interrupt this matter, you should remain silent... [[What an arrogance to women.]] Because I do not claim and accuse the State, and such cases can be invoked, e.g. the case of councilman of the Civic Platform, I'm sorry, the activist of the Civic Platform of Gniezno, who was convicted of pedophilia. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the courtroom: He's been convicted.]] Are any of you accusing the Civic Platform of covering for paedophiles? [[Game in the O.R.]] [[But Peterovich was hiding.]] Does anybody here charge you with this? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And I have heard these voices from the speech of President Grzegorz Schetin. [[Where's Peterovich?]] Did anyone charge Mr. Biedron when he didn't even file a complaint with the D.A.'s office... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: He is in an exposed position.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u262	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u263	...that a sexual harassment crime has been committed...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u264	Thank you very much, sir. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u265	...in the city he was subject to. He didn't make that notification, at least that's what the media says. [[Voice from the room: Lying.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u266	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u267	Question: "Do you want to punish the perpetrators of these crimes?"
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u268	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u269	...do you care about the political performance? [[This bill is a spectacle.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u270	Please take the floor of the Member...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u271	Janusz Korczak...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u272	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Boris Budka.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u273	...he said that when... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] But I would paraphrase those words because when... [[Thank you.]] [[You'll be disfellowshipped immediately.]] ...the child gets hurt, the whole world gets hurt. [[Voice from the gym: How you behaved towards me, Marshal.]] And you're your behavior, your unsubstantiated, cynical, disgusting game you want... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the courtroom, Marshal...]] [[Voice from the room: But time is up.]] [[Your marshal, maybe something about blonds.]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: A Piotrowicz in an exposed position.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u274	There you go. [[Your marshal, maybe something about blonds, some attention.]] Mr Nitras, please do not interfere with the proceedings of the Sejm. [[Me?]] Yes. [[That's...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u275	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am not surprised that Prime Minister Morawiecki has escaped from this room, because until now it seemed that the peak of hypocrisy and hypocrisy had already been reached. [[Applause]] You're lying, saying this case will solve the problem that this bill will solve a problem that you haven't been able to solve since the beginning of your governments. You're lying that, in the revision of the justice department's preparation, there's a case concerning, for example, The limitation of pedophilia offences has been investigated from the beginning. That's a lie. You posted it on Tuesday because the Civic Platform Club submitted a project in the Sejm to prevent such crimes from happening. You put it in that bill on Tuesday, and now all of a sudden you're pretending that you've been working on it for a couple of years. Lies and hypocrisy. [[Applause]] [[What have you guys been doing for eight years?]] You're not doing this the way you're supposed to. Because unfortunately there was an outrageous alliance between the altar and the throne. [[What have you been doing for eight years?]] How do you explain these matters, how your fellow Members hang on church fences, on cemetery fences, [[Applause]] How are your candidates holding election meetings in the parish halls? And you say you'll explain anything? We need a special committee that we will call in the next parliament because we owe it to the Poles because we will not run away from this case, just as you do, because we know... [[You were eight years old.]] ...that the Polish Church must listen to the voice of Francis, Pope Francis, and not Bishop Glodzi, who is your ally. [[Applause]] You are a group that brought the Polish Church into politics. You're a group that's unbelievable. And now you're trying to cover your inability with this bill. Minister Ziobro, speaking of the pedophilia register, hides the worst thing - stigmatization of victims. You were blind and deaf to any arguments. And now there is a secondary stigmatization of the victims and God's spirit of the guilty children only because you are acting under the posts, only because you are a group of populists. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Don't judge according to yourself.]] Unfortunately, it is. If Minister Ziobro is trying to bring in the 500+ programme during the debate on such a dramatic issue, this is the height of hypocrisy and hypocrisy. If in the case of victims who deserve respect, seriously... [[You're serious, screaming in this room.]] [[Don't interrupt this debate.]] [[Voice from the room: Quiet, blonde.]] ...and the help of the Polish state, you follow only the pillars, you look only at your propaganda, this is a great shame for your group. I believe, after the election, we'll settle you for everything you can't do. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u276	Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, PO-KO, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u277	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Suicides, broken families, ruined mental health - these are just some of the problems people face... [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Director, psychologist... not to be spoken of.]] ...who, as a child, were simply victims of pedophilia. Many such cases could be prevented. The cause of many crimes of pedophilia is silence and consent. Closing your eyes to pedophilia, covering for pedophiles are the same crimes as pedophilia itself, and they should be punished as much. That is why I will encourage this law to be supplemented with a key solution. It should be based on a fair principle: prison for silence. According to this principle, without any reduction tariff, priests should be accounted for, from priests to bishops, but not only. They should all be accounted for. State troopers and prosecutors, too. Too often the drama of one child, the victim of a paedophile, became not the end of this paedophile's activities, but the beginning of a series of further harms. Because instead of going to jail, a paedophile went to another parish. The transfer of pedophile priests was simply an accessory to pedophilia. That is why the resignations of the superiors themselves are not enough at this point, because their decisions were often a source of further drama. Justice requires that they be brought to justice. I can't imagine it's enough to resign when the transfer of a paedophile's priest caused his next crimes that became the cause of suicide. 'Cause is resigning responsible for someone's suicide? [[Applause]] If this is not in this bill, if you do not support it, it will be clear that you are pretending to fight paedophilia, that you only care about polls and not about paedophilia victims. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u278	Mr Paszyk, Mr PSL, the Union of European Democrats will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u279	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! A few days ago, thanks to two brave journalists and a group of even more heroic people, victims of horrible crimes of pedophilia years ago, something that was just a guess recently became a tangible and undeniable fact. First of all, we saw the most innocent children, who needed special care and care, trampled on dignity, destroying their childhood and their sense of security. Secondly, perhaps the worst, we have seen how misunderstood the concepts of internal solidarity and care for the good name of the Church led to the concealment of these practices by some Church leaders. On the basis of this film, what he has caused among Poles, these emotions, but also worries, and worries, the government stated that practically at the speed of light it will present a draft amendment to the Penal Code and the matter will be, Minister, dealt with. And by the way, by attacking some politicians, it's gonna put a little bit more into the furnace already so hot campaign atmosphere and it's gonna be like it used to be. The absent Prime Minister! Minister! It's not gonna be like it used to be. Because those like me, believers, practicing Catholics, and those non-believers today want more than this amendment. They want to take efforts and steps, as Pope Francis has recommended for several years today, to explain all the pedophilia that appeared in the Polish Church and clean them to the core. This is what Poles expect today, not another one of many amendments to the Penal Code. All we have is an amendment to the Penal Code, unfortunately. Minister! To date, the Minister's actions in the area of sexual offences involving minors, apart from, I regret to say, a very poor record of paedophiles, were small. Interestingly, it was in your rule that crime increased by 21% in the case of sexual abuse of minors. [[Maybe detection, huh?]] This is a summary of the years 2017 and 2015. Madam, we will not scream reality. There was an increase in crime by nearly 46% in the PiS regime. in the case of all crimes against sexual freedom and customs. Data: 2017 - 2015. The increase in numerous crimes against sexual freedom and morality in recent years is very interesting, taking into account the general downward trend of crime in Poland, Minister. [[Because you're finally racing criminals.]] I think it would be worth thinking, High Izbo, about setting up a committee that would examine the problem of pedophilia, including the one in the Church, like the countries of the western world, which I think we still belong to. High Izbo! Fr. Professor Andrzej Szostek, Rector of the Catholic University of Lublin in 1998-2004, who said: I agree with Mr Sekielski on many issues, including the appointment of a committee. I'm just afraid that this committee won't be under the Minister of Justice, because then there might be political manipulation. Sometimes, however, Minister, it is worth letting independent professionals, and not just subordinate prosecutors, who, unfortunately, sometimes feel that way, are used instrumentally. In conclusion, I would like to quote Fr. Jack Prusaka: If it was not possible to speak of the sins of the Church, how would we get rid of them? Attack on the Church is not giving victims the right to talk about their pain, about their experiences. The Sekielski film is not an act of attack on the Church, it's an attempt to understand what's really going on there. I hope that this amendment, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Even though it's in scandalous and out-of-the-box mode...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u280	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u281	...become the cornerstone of the fight against evil, the sexual exploitation of children. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u282	Please take the floor of Mr Paweł Pudłowski, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u283	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Since Saturday, since the release of the Sekielski Brothers' film, just don't tell anyone who already has more than 14 million views, there is a media bidding on ideas and draft changes to the pedophilia penalty laws. Today we are considering the PiS project delivered to Members a few hours ago in electronic form without legal advice, without evaluation of the Office of Seym Analysis, without evaluation of specialists, sexologists, psychologists, without prior public consultation. This term of office under your command shows too often that it quickly means, unfortunately, just how. Punishment must be inevitable. Sanctions can be tightened indefinitely, but if there's a protective umbrella over a group, these atrocities will repeat themselves. Today we have laws that allow us to fight sexual crimes, including among clergymen. However, the problem is the lack of the will of law enforcement and not the lack of legislation. Now it's up to sexual offenders to be held accountable. I appeal: do not pretend to act with proposals for legal changes, formation of prosecutorial teams and subsequent regulations, just stop all the guilty, do not be afraid. Unfortunately, the PiS government is not taking action. Immediately after the Episcopal Conference, on which a report on the sexual exploitation of minors was presented, Moderna submitted to the prosecutor's office Warsaw-Śródmieście a notice of suspicion of committing a crime with the article. 240. Let me remind you that this report mentions 625 victims of sexual abuse of minors. Let me remind you that 382 clergymen have been mentioned, but no name has been revealed. On April 18th, we received an answer, refusing to open an investigation. During the time when zero pedophiles were arrested in collars, more than 40 Greenpeace activists were arrested and imprisoned, who put up a sheet with the inscription: Poland without coal. 2 weeks ago at 3 p.m. 6.14 for printing stickers with the image of Our Lady of Częstochowa against the background of the rainbow, Mrs Elizabeth Podleśna was arrested. Ladies and gentlemen, compare these actions. Do you see the dissonance of the D.A.'s response? A problem as big as child sexual harassment is hiding crimes from people who know about them. In accordance with that Article. 240 Criminal Code Everyone who has knowledge of a criminal offence and does not immediately notify the prosecuting authority shall be punishable by imprisonment up to the age of 3. The responsibility of the Church is special. The Church must oppose the internal system of the cover-up of paedophile crimes, the cover-up of perpetrators, and the intimidation and discrediting of victims. For many, clergymen are people with a special authority and a special position, and the criminals in the cassocks used this authority badly. We emphasized then and emphasize today that this is not a fight against the Catholic Church, it is a fight against paedophiles in collars. The church hierarchy must finally understand and not stand in the way of justice. [[Voice from the hall: Catholic...]] The law doesn't work backwards. This bill will not allow for the clearance of the statute of limitations of pedophilia. The draft law also plans a change concerning young people. This should especially be examined not to treat loving teenagers as pedophiles. We are in favour of working on the draft, but we believe that the bill should go to the Extraordinary Commission for changes in codification, not to the Legislative Commission, because it is a change concerning the Penal Code. We therefore oppose the referral of this proposal to the Legislative Commission. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u284	Thank you. Ms Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u285	Dear Marshal! Honourable Members! You're asking whose side we're on. We are always on the side of the children, on the side of the victims, but we are not in a populist way, not for a momentary applause, and we are always standing, regardless of who is the perpetrator, whether it is a secular person or a spiritual person. That's why we didn't support your public record. Why? Because 80% This is a pedophilia among close friends or family. What does that mean? This means that the manifest record condemns the perpetrators as well as the victims, and the victims have already paid their price. The stigmatization of victims is cruel because their price was highest. You can see that PiS is burning the ground under his feet right now. You seem to realize that your alliance with the altar is so close. At this moment I call you: do not be afraid, set up a committee that will be able to fully explain the pedophilia in the Church. I know it gets easier on the side of those who hang your banners on fences, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But you have to stop. on the children's side, because it won't do anything...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u286	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u287	...extend punishment in terms of sentences if such a person never gets to face Temida. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u288	Mr Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus will now speak, near Now!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u289	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Don't be afraid, it's a foundation that has been begging and asking for hearing not only the politicians of Law and Justice, but also the politicians of the Civic Platform and other political groups since 5.5. To be honest, I look with embarrassment, especially at the politicians of Law and Justice, who are only trying to exploit the suffering of victims who have been raped and molested by priests because there is an election campaign. [[And who submitted the project on Tuesday?]] If you really had any concern, it would have been a reaction from the Law and Justice, for example. Saryusz-Wolski said that pedophilia in the Church was a problem of dumbass, [[Applause]] There would be a reaction from you to what Terlecki said. Terlecki said it was Only a film attacking the Church. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Marshal Terlecki.]] [[Voice from the room: He's not a friend.]] Indeed, there would be concern for you if any of you were. During the conference in the Seym, where the victims told their traumatic experiences. There were four such conferences: 6 April 2018, 8 October 2018, 7 January 2019, 18 March 2019. Where were you when 21-year-old Darius cried in the walls of the Sejm and talked about his trauma? Where were you when the 27-year-old Mariusz was talking about his trauma of ten years of rape? Where have you been? If there was real concern for you, it would be a reaction. [[Where was Ziobro?]] Another question. Where were you when there were demonstrations on the streets of Warsaw and other cities? How many of you were there? Zero. How many of you were there when Tomasz Sekielski was raising money for a movie about paedophiles? Zero. None of you did. How many of you have responded to the report of the Foundation, which Marek Lisiński handed to Pope Francis in the Vatican? How many? Zero. How many of you responded to the testimony of the victims who were on TV, the radio, and the press? No reaction. You have no moral right to speak about pedophilia. Do you know why you don't? Because you're afraid you're gonna hurt some bishop. Instead of kneeling before bishops, you should all, like one husband, kneel before the victims of paedophiles and beg forgiveness for not doing anything about it over the years, not doing anything about it. You kiss bishops, priests, perpetrators in your hands all the time, and you do nothing for victims and raped children. [[Nobody kisses bishops on their hands.]] And one more thing. If there is any remorse in you, I will check on Monday. This I check will be for all politicians, not just from the Law and Justice. Monday at the time. 11 Don't be afraid to organize the fifth conference in the Seym. [[Very good.]] At this conference, constitutionalists and lawyers will present assumptions regarding the secular committee to which experts, lawyers, sexologists, lawyers and victims are to be invited. [[The envoy will be the president.]] [[The project is here.]] If you really want the victims to regain their dignity, support the civic project, not the political one, because only citizens, Poles and Poles, have the strength to oppose this demon that is now coming out of the Church. And one more thing, ladies and gentlemen. You're talking about how everyone's been terrified of what's going on in the church since Saturday. Not since Saturday, folks. This information was presented repeatedly by Marek Lisiński, presenting many victims at least from 5.5 years on TV, on radio, at conferences. Nobody responded. So once again, if you really have any decency in you and you really care about getting those kids back in dignity, I'm asking you to support the citizens' project, not the political one, because politicians can't be on this committee. Now I would like to show you something that you should all see: a map of pedophilia in the Polish Church. This shouldn't be a punishment debate. This debate should be about clearing the Church of all the evil it gives to children. This debate should be about this. I hope, whether it's in this Seym or the next Seym, that we will lead to the Church finally being settled. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Messenger Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus presents a map of church pedophilia in Poland]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u290	I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Margaret Zwierzan, Free and Solidarni. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to leave the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u291	Here you go, look at this.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u292	Madame, the time for happening is over, really. I'm asking you to leave the platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u293	Take a look at this. Look at you, too. [[Voice in the room: You're disturbing the order.]] [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Do you also see other professional groups?]] Don't embarrass yourself. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: You embarrassed yourself because you don't see the whole thing. You have a phobia. You're only looking selectively. Talk about everyone.]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] You're embarrassing yourself... You're kneeling in front of the bishops. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Please map all competitions. And don't forget the celebrities.]] Shame on you, woman! You kneel before the bishop and the paedophile priest. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Ask these children. You don't want to remember that. That's the philosophy.]] Calm your friend down. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u294	Madame, I ask you to leave the speaker. I would like to point out that you are interfering with the House's deliberations. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u295	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position towards the government's draft law amending the Penal Code Act and some other laws. This debate is very important and it is good that it is taking place today in the Seym, but this debate should not be, Madam, but about pedophilia in the Church. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Of course.]] [[Member Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: First and foremost about pedophilia in the Church.]] This debate should just be about pedophilia. Over the last few days, the issue of sexual crimes against minors is one of the hottest topics discussed by all media in Poland, by most Poles. So much interest in this subject is proof that sexual offenders in the opinion of our compatriots should be judged more severely. The aim of the bill is to protect minors victims of crime and to increase the criminal liability of sexual offenders in the case of the youngest Poles. Currently, we do not have enough mechanisms to protect victims, and sanctions for such crimes are too low. I agree with many voices that changes in this area should be made a long time ago. For many years, in previous governments, almost nothing has changed, and we know very well that the problem of sexual violence against children is a subject that has been present in Polish social life for many years. Today we're just talking about him louder and more openly than we used to be. In the processed law, the government increases the severity of sanctions and limits the possibilities to mitigate penalties. According to this proposal, the courts are to impose more severe penalties on sex offenders, including life imprisonment. Such solutions are the answer, they are in line with the feelings of Poles, who believe that judgments brought by courts are too lenient for perpetrators. I trust that the real threat of punishment and, above all, the inevitability of punishment will contribute to reducing the number of sexual offences, in particular those involving minors. There cannot be any kind of approval, permission for criminals, regardless of their profession, to commit crimes involving life, health or sexual freedom. Punishments inadequately to their crimes. The Free and Solidarnia Circle supports changes tightening the Penal Code's rules in the bill under review. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u296	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Robert Majka, not associated. [[This is an alien.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u297	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's debate is very important to me. It shows cynicism and false reality. This should be done. The movie of the Sekielski brothers, I'm gonna put it straight, it just shocked me. I don't think it should and shouldn't be. With many voices, the issues that you raise, I agree. I can say that the only cure to get past any conflict, argument, and political struggle is this, I've already told every public person to go through a process of query at the Institute of National Remembrance, and that's where everything will come out when it comes to the past. I wish you were Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. I also propose to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki that he make a public administrative decision from the Institute of National Remembrance that he was not associated with military or civilian state security services. This concerns not only Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, but also Donald Tusk... [[But they didn't molest.]] Don't be nervous, don't be nervous. [[We don't know.]] ...president Jarosław Kaczyński and Mr Grzegorz Schetin. I'm afraid so. [[And you have such a certificate?]] Yes, you're welcome. It's not a certificate, it's a decision. Yes, of course. [[Applause]] [[But she doesn't matter anymore. I don't know if you know. Once again, you have to...]] Yeah, it doesn't matter? Ladies and gentlemen, I will not be disturbed. [[He never came to that balance.]] What is funny to most of you, which is simply a past for most of you, unfortunately has a very big impact on social and political life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u298	Thank you. Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of you like to join the list of people asking questions? I can't see. I'm closing the list. Mr Szczerba will be the first question to be asked. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u299	High Izbo! It is a pity that there is no Prime Minister Morawiecki, because he would have the opportunity to apologize for those words and for what you've been doing since Sunday, repeating like a parrot behind Archbishop Głodzie: I don't watch anything. What happened on Monday? Waszczykowski: this is an attempt to create a smokestorm, to draw attention to the subject of a substitute. Saryusz-Wolski: this is a problem duped, invented, specifically to rub. Griglas compares the movie to Hitler's book Mein Kampf. Marshal Terlecki says it's a film attacking the Church. Prime Minister Morawiecki! You've had the opportunity to apologize for all these speeches, for the disgrace of the PiS, for what we've been hearing since Sunday. You ran away because you're ashamed. What's the problem, High Izbo? The problem is, this is the first time you've stood behind paedophiles priests... [[Voice from the hall: Priests.]] ...power, and your propaganda. You've been proving since Sunday that paedophiles [[♪ The bell ♪]] They're bricklayers, not priests. That's the problem... [[Vice Marshal disables microphone, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u300	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Cezary Tomczyk, PO-KO. [[There isn't.]] In that case, Mrs Agnieszka Pomaska, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u301	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The film that became the reason for today's debate concerns pedophilia among priests. It was created because the problem of child sexual abuse, as the film showed, is out of the system. That priests who committed acts of pedophilia, instead of before the court, involving the prosecutor, were simply sent to another parish. The absent Prime Minister! Minister! How does this bill bring us closer to punishing us for the crimes of paedophilia among priests? Minister, what actions did you take after publishing this film to bishops who, as it turns out, hid this fact? What actions she has taken The police on this case? Minister Brudziński is very efficient in sending at hours. 6 a.m. Police officers. What action has the police taken on this matter? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please answer these questions in concrete terms. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u302	The question is asked by Mr Jakub Rutnicki, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u303	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are talking during this debate about the greatest treasure, about the safety of our children, and it raises the question whether the politicians of the PiS will put pedophiles in their collars in prison. Will you do it or will you have the courage to do it because the situation demands it? Ladies and gentlemen! Most likely the PiS won't do it. And you know why? Because PiS politicians formed a permanent alliance with the Catholic Church. Every day there is an election campaign, we can see banners in parishes, banners of law and justice politicians. We also see election meetings organized in the parish area with law and justice policies. That can't be allowed, ladies and gentlemen. And who is the face of law and justice when it comes to fighting pedophilia? Prosecutor Peterovich. This is the prosecutor, ladies and gentlemen, who a few years ago defended a paedophile priest who was convicted by a final judgment of a court for paedophile acts. That's the truth about [[♪ The bell ♪]] the activities of the PiS. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u304	The question is asked by Mr Sławomir Nitras, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u305	High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask you a question, because you have indeed presented us with a reform of the Penal Code, a very radical, broad one, because also the license plates, and VAT, and the banking services, everything is there. I don't know why you mixed everything up with pedophilia. I get the feeling that this is all about hiding the point of the problem because you have at least a few roles to play, you're the Attorney General. After all, we all know that the amendments to this Penal Code, including those that relate to pedophilia, do not concern those cases that have happened, we talk about the future, the law does not work backwards, that raising judgments would be possible to act backwards. What did you do with those direct crimes in the Church that took place because of the Church, about these particular cases? Did you secure the documents, or did you question the witnesses, or did you initiate proceedings in this case? I have the impression that you are false friends of the Church, because there is also a war in the Church today between those who are sick of it and those who want to preserve what was happening, and that you are trying [[♪ The bell ♪]] blur this problem...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u306	Thank you. I'm asking you to ask me a question...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u307	What you're trying to say is that everyone has... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u308	... Arkadiusz Myrcha, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u309	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! You're not here, Minister! Today you talk a lot about chasing pedophilia, respect for the victims, but if you are not so basically ashamed, after today's debate you will go to a meeting of the PiS club and you will be high-fives with Stanisław Piotrowicz, you will pat on your back and say: Staszek, nothing happened. But it happened. From a man who defended and justified a convicted paedophile's judgment, you made the President of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. Could there be a greater act of hypocrisy in the Sejm of the Republic of Poland? [[Applause]] Prime Minister! Minister! Why aren't you talking about stigmatizing the families of these perpetrators? You can imagine what it's like to grow up a young girl or a young boy when everyone around you knows that one of their parents is a paedophile. All the studies show that these children have the most cruel possible periods of growing up. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And finally, Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u310	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Grzegorz July...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u311	...what the 16-year-olds did to you that you forbid... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u312	... PO-KO. [[You turned yours off after three minutes of time.]] [[That's justice.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u313	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! We all know that Poland has transformed a wave of outrage into crimes of pedophilia committed by some clergymen, and even worse, to cover these clergymen by their superiors, by some bishops. Of course, the problem lies not in raising the upper limit of punishment for acts, but in the inevitability of punishment. Society, and even a part of the clergy, demands first and foremost radical changes in the episcopate. Those who have moved between pedophiles parishes should be charged at least with failure to notify law enforcement authorities, and perhaps also for cover-up of crimes. I would like to tell you that Pope Francis is sending his archbishop to Poland, who was dealing with pedophilia in Chile, and therefore the situation is very serious. And that's what we should be talking about, not just about the changes in criminal law, because the situation has already sounded so radical that we need to act radically. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u314	Thank you. The question is asked by Małgorzata Chmiel, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u315	Prime Minister! Don't pretend you don't understand that the problem is not low sentences, just hiding paedophiles by the authorities of the Church, moving from one parish to another, covering up - patronize and pretend there was nothing. I wanted to ask you why the Ministry didn't present a project to increase the penalty for hiding pedophilia. When are we gonna hear about stopping people hiding pedophiles in the Church? Some paedophiles dress up and feel safe. Ladies and gentlemen! This is not a fight against the Church, as PiS is trying to tell us. This is the fight against some paedophiles who are in the Church and hiding these paedophiles by the Church. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u316	Thank you. The question is asked by Monika Rosa, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u317	Mrs. Marshalkini! Minister Ziobro! Today, Wyborcza publishes information about the paedophile tendencies of Fr. Paul Kani knew at least four hierarchs. What will you do, Minister, on this matter? Bishop Kaliski Edward Janiak, Bishop of Bydgoszcz Jan Tyrawa, Archbishop of Wrocław Marian Gołębiewski, card. Henryk Gulbinovich knew about a pedophile named Paweł Kania. What will the Minister do about it? Don't be afraid to mention dozens of other names of bishops and church hierarchs who knew that priests raped and molested children, moved them from parish to parish or didn't respond. Speech is e.g. It's about the card. Nychu, Bishop. Ignacy Jeez, archbishop. Fame of Hungry, Archbishop. Goclovski, archbishop. Marianie Gołębiewski, Archbishop Józef Górzyński, archbishop Wojciech Ziębie. That's a dozen names, Minister Ziobro. My question is, what will the Minister do with this report, with these facts that cannot be challenged? Are the hierarchs of the church who hid [[♪ The bell ♪]] The worst crimes, the consequences? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u318	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, near Now!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u319	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! So let us hear again what Pope Francis heard on 21 February in the Vatican from Marek Lisiński. He heard about bishops who moved and hid paedophile priests. These are the bishops: Kazimierz Nycz, Sławoj Leszek Głodź, Marian Gołębiewski, Jan Tyrawa, Henryk Gulbinowicz, Józef Górzyński...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u320	Madam, I am so sorry, ma'am.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u321	... Wojciech Ziemba, Edmund Squeak...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u322	But this is the time to ask questions...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u323	We're about to have a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u324	...not for a statement, really.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u325	... Henry Hoser... [[Voice from the hall: But he asks.]] ... Marek Jędraszewski... [[But her time, not yours.]] ... Julius Paetz...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u326	But these are questions, Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u327	... Józef Michalik...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u328	...the statements are different. [[Listen to me to the end.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u329	... Andrzej Dziuba, Jacek Jezierski, Jan Wątroba, Zygmunt Kaminski, Stanisław Stefanek, Marian Przykutki, Stanisław Wielgus, Andrzej Suski, Andrzej Czaja. My question is, when are you really going to take care of people who have been hiding and moving pedophiles? Instead of arresting the projector, we have pedophiles on the loose. When are you guys gonna do the job? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u330	The question is asked by Mr Cornelia Wróblewska, PO-KO. There isn't. In that case, Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u331	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is good that we have finally started a debate on such an important issue, such a big problem as pedophilia. I'm sure it's far too late. There are no words to express outrage in connection with this one of the most beastly crimes. Here it is clear and clear to say the word 'no' - 'no' to such acts that affect the most innocent persons. It is our duty to do everything we can to prevent such crimes from happening again. Moreover, it is important to pay attention to the time-barred cases in this regard. Is it possible to bring them back to life? There's no room for sentiment here. Will criminals who have been exposed be punished? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u332	Thank you. The question is asked by Krystyna Skowrońska, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u333	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! More than 14 million views of the film by the Sekielski brothers just don't tell anyone. [[Game in the O.R.]] Minister, I'd like you to listen to me. Minister, I'd like you to listen to me. Minister, I'd like you to listen to me. I'm asking you a question. That's weird. As usual. But I'd like to ask. This is an extremely important social phenomenon. Will this film be displayed on public television so that citizens can make their own opinions and not say... [[All grown-ups have already seen it.]] ...and know what the case is? Secondly, an amendment on the action of the law backwards concerning pedophilia, pedophiles. It's gonna be a real test if the PiS club is really after pedophilia. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, you didn't listen to me.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u334	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u335	You didn't listen to me, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u336	The question is asked by Mr Adam Szłapka, a modern club. [[It didn't look good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u337	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I said, "I'm checking before a movie of the Sekiel brothers came out on Saturday and you panicked, and you threw draft laws at this session of the Sejm." I filed a notice with the D.A. with the article. 240 Penal Code after the Polish Episcopate conference, at which the hierarchs spoke about hundreds of crimes that occurred in the Church. This article tells us that anyone who knows about a crime does not report it is also committing a crime. It wasn't a notice against someone, it was about a case. I requested a hearing of two specific bishops who spoke at this conference - Stanisław Gądecki and Marek Jędraszewski. And it was good to say: I am checking what the Polish state is doing to protect the victims of pedophiles. What did the Polish state do, that is to say, under minister Ziobrze of the prosecutor's office? Negative to initiate proceedings without any justification. This is an outrage. Who's protecting pedophiles today? Minister, you should answer that question. [[Voice from the room: Lord.]] To this extent [[♪ The bell ♪]] The D.A.'s office...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u338	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u339	...she treated that notification...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u340	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u341	...that she made a typo that I... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u342	The question is asked by Michał Stasiński, PO-KO. [[You even prescribed it.]] [[Voice from the courtroom, Marshal...]] [[That's your...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u343	Mr Kownacki, such a spectacle of hypocrisy and cynicism I have not seen here in a long time. As a Member from Bydgoszcz, a paratrooper, but from Bydgoszcz - and I as a Member from Bydgoszcz - you should know very well what role you play in hiding a pedophile, former Fr. Kani, Bishop of Bydgoszcz, Jan Tyrawa. And you dare accuse others of cynicism? Where are your statements calling for Bishop. The tyranny to step down? Where are your appeals? Where's your apology to his victims? Are you reliable in this case? You have no credibility. What did you do? [[And you apologized?]] There you go - you've promoted Bishop. I'm tyrannical to the rank of lieutenant colonel. Where's your application to the Minister of Defense for degradation? [[And you apologized?]] Bishop Tyrawa should be questioned by the prosecutor, he should be removed from office, and in order to keep the rest of the class, you should ask the MON to revoke this promotion. Bishop Tyrava does not even deserve a rank in the Polish Army. What you said today is an example [[♪ The bell ♪]] Outrageous manipulation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u344	Thank you, sir. The question is asked by Gabriel Lenartowicz, PO-KO. [[You're hypocritical, Bartek.]] [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Saints are.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u345	High Seym! I know that the Prime Minister despises Poles, his presence confirms it. He valued us for a bowl of rice and the lies he thinks he's gonna buy us. But does the Prime Minister really think that the 14 million that watched the film, this dark people, will buy that the secret SB coworkers dressed in caskets molested children in the Church and bishops covered for them? What, on behalf of the UB? Do you really think a dark people will buy it? This bullshit, what are you guys saying today, that the statute of limitations on rape will be lifted? But you're not a schmuck anymore. Bioenergy therapy - there is no Member who diagnoses harassment so well - and there will be no statute of limitations. You think that's how it works? The law doesn't work backwards. The movie scares away potential perpetrators better than your empty talk. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We need to clean this place up. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u346	Thank you, Member. The question is asked by Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u347	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask you the following question. Namely, we are talking about the statute of limitations on the rape of a minor, but unfortunately practice shows that this crime is often accompanied by a second crime: a murder. Therefore, my question is, in this context, should not this limitation also be imposed on this murder crime? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u348	Thank you. The question is asked by Anna Maria Siarkowska, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u349	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the fact that the effective fight against pedophilia also requires preventive action, not only those reactionary actions, as the problem arises, I would like to ask whether it would be useful to extend these proposed changes to include promotion or praise of pedophile behaviour and to promote or approve of a minor's sexual intercourse. These elements were included in the Stop Pedophilia Citizens' Initiative. [[Applause]] Secondly, I would like to point out that the problem we are dealing with is much broader. We need to pay attention to how the victims are treated and how they respond to anonymous calls. Here I am thinking about the scandalous situation that took place in Słupsk, when the head of the cultural centre completely ignored and did not report to the prosecutor's office the harassment of girls in the cultural center during the time of Mr. In this respect, procedures should also be improved. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u350	Thank you, Member. I ask you to ask Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u351	Dear Mrs. Marshalkini! High Seym! It is high time to renegotiate the concordat with the Holy See. That's one thing. Secondly, we must answer the question, and we must ask whether Cardinal Dziwisz protected paedophiles without informing John Paul II about it, and whether the Catholic Church in Poland, which is a party church that cares only for its material needs, protecting priests of paedophiles, modern democratic society, is not needed, nobody needs it. The church is committing suicide in front of us. Minister Ziobro, are you the minister or the executioner? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u352	The question is asked by Mr Waldemar Buda, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u353	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! In politics, credibility is important... [[Exactly.]] ...that is, whether the words are followed by deeds. [[Oh, Jesus, oh, God.]] Today, from the mouth of the state, we hear screams from the platform, on television, we see a hat on the Internet, but when it comes to actions, it is very different. We had a moment of action when we voted on the Pedophile Register Act: either you didn't come, or you didn't, or you didn't understand, or you were even against it. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: It is not our fault that you do not listen to arguments.]] You have a chance to keep this only part of your credibility, because that's all she has left. Support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Which one?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u354	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Jagna Marczulajtis-Walczak, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u355	High Izbo! I have a very important question. The Sekielski film showed us that the problem of pedophilia mainly concerns priests. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] But the question is whether, as far as the Polish Church is concerned, only priests are involved. From the media we know that the District Attorney's Office in Nowy Sącz received a notice of abuse of disabled pupils of the Home of Social Assistance in Białka Tatrzańska in 2016. The report showed that for years, sisters used physical, mental violence against their children, challenged, starved, and beat them. The investigation was initiated for action with particular cruelty. [[How he got it all done.]] The checks continued until a visit. Deputy Minister Jak, Deputy Minister of Justice, visited the DPS campaign of the seraphim sisters in Białka Tatrzańska. He gave a flattering opinion, and a week later, the D.A.'s office canceled the investigation into the abuse of charges in this house. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: Shame.]] I just want to quote...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u356	Thank you, Member. I would ask you to ask Mr Duda a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u357	If you don't mind, Marshal, there's only one sentence I'd like to say. Very important. [[One sentence, that's important.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u358	Madame, your time is really...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u359	People with disabilities are vulnerable to pedophilia. They'll never say anything. These are the words of Iwona Hartwich. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u360	Member Antoni Duda, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u361	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As a man, but also as a grandfather of five grandchildren, I am keenly interested in protecting children from any kind of crime, but pedophilia in particular, because this crime can have very bad consequences in relation to the entire remaining life of a child raped. Minister, can the proposed changes in criminal law limit these crimes, make a potential criminal think about his intention to face such a severe punishment, against the possibility of exercising responsibility for the rest of his life because of his failure to do so? And by the way, the Members of the opposition predict as prophets that the government of the United Right will not punish paedophile priests. It will be. And I'm going to ask PO-KO representatives how do their words go to the fact that their environment was defending and probably still defending a very well-known director of a pedophile? Are only spiritual persons to be prosecuted? [[Applause]] [[No, there's still a subcarpathian incident.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u362	I ask you to ask Mr Kazimierz Smolinski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u363	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I think that, like most societies, I am outraged by the fact that such facts of pedophilia are taking place, especially in the Catholic Church, which I belong to, but that does not mean that we can make judgments on all priests. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a principle of presumption of innocence in our system, so until proven guilty to someone, please do not pass responsibility on to the whole Church and to all its members. That's one thing. Second, yes, lips full of clichés, but the facts are different. Question to the Minister: Is it true that in 2010 the Ombudsman of the child's rights made a request to the Minister of Justice to introduce no criminalisation of pedophilia? What did the government of Donald Tusk do then? What did you do? You voted against it. Is it true that in most cases [[♪ The bell ♪]] the courts apply the suspension of the sentence? 54% suspension... [[Applause]] [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Yes, they will correct and grant them children.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u364	Thank you, sir. The question is asked by Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u365	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! The crime of pedophilia must be fought and we have done it. In 2005, in July, we passed over the divisions of the revision of the Penal Code, and then the pedophilia ceased to be a crime, and it began to be a crime. This is how we have to act and we have to act effectively and consistently. The question is, why didn't you stand in front of the House today and say, in three and a half years, I did this, this, this, and this. Then perhaps there would be no problem that church hierarchs protect paedophiles in the Church and there would be no such questions. The Lord used this phenomenon as a tooltip, which was revealed in the film, and today came with a gigantic revision of the Penal Code. What does it have to do with paedophilia instigating and conducting an assault war or committing an act of aggression? What does calling for an attacking war have to do with this? What does it have to do with mass? [[♪ The bell ♪]] An assassination It's just an excuse.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u366	Thank you very much, sir. The question is asked by Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u367	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Criminals who sexually abuse children must be strictly and inevitably punished, which is why we are presenting this project. The Modern Member thundered from the pulpit that the bill did not work backwards, that there were crimes that were statute-barred. Minister! Is this about those crimes that have expired because in 2013 the Platform with PSL torpedoed a project to introduce a lack of statute of limitations on pedophilia-related crimes? Is it true that leading Platform politicians defended paedophile celebrities? Is it true that the former foreign minister Radosław Sikorski defended and glorified Roman Polanski, saying that he did more for the image of Poland than the entire Ministry of Foreign Affairs? When we entered the pedophile register in 2016, you torpedoed the project as you do today. If you have any decency in you, you will vote for this project because it defends those who are the most important. He defends his victims from criminals. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u368	Thank you. The question is asked by Lydia Burzyńska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u369	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The bill is primarily a tough reaction of the state, which was lacking, just when you ruled, i.e. the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party. When the government of law and justice entered a record of pedophiles, how did the total opposition behave? The words that Napoleon said, "The head without memory, is like a fortress without a garrison." Pedophilia must be fought decisively wherever it takes place, primarily by increasing the lower limits of penalties, as the project assumes, regardless of the social position, regardless of the profession pursued. The degenerates, because that's what these people need to be called, should be punished by a ruthless prison. Today, so many words sounded out of the speaker's mouth. [[♪ The bell ♪]] defending, protecting students, children. Will you support this project? [[Applause]] [[That's the minister's question?]] [[I don't know who that question is.]] [[To the diocesan bishop.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u370	Thank you, Member. The question is asked by Mr Józef Lassota, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u371	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, under the pretext of pedophilia - as you can see - the minister is making huge changes, but it is good that it is. I just want to say one thing. There is no doubt to anyone that bishops hiding or allowing such activities are, were in collusion - that is what it is called - acting together and in agreement with these priests. But I must make it clear that the PiS also acted and works together and in agreement, because if you are talking about the list of paedophiles, then why aren't the priests there? This is simply an action that encourages them to do so. I have a question: How long will courage last you? After May 26, will you also have the courage to act so decisively toward paedophiles of the Church? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u372	The question is asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u373	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, You are politically hiding behind the pedophile register today. I wanted to ask you to what extent this ledger helped to expose pedophiles, to bring them to justice and to throw them into prison. [[This isn't the ledger.]] The Sekielski Brothers' film proved that the register did not help anything, that sexual offenders continue to enjoy freedom with impunity, and their immediate surroundings quietly allow it. [[You don't understand.]] About the proposed changes, Minister. We all know that the main problem isn't what the punishment will be, but to expose the perpetrators, to charge them and just to punish them. So what if we include in the bill that someone is to have an official ban on working with children, since the film has clearly shown that people who have such a ban simply do not comply with it, and their surroundings, I will repeat again, quietly allow it to happen again. That's what we have to fight. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u374	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I request the floor of the Minister of Justice of the Attorney General, Mr Zbigniew Ziobra.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u375	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is said that hypocrisy is the Hithalae, but I think it would be better to say hypocrisy is the ocean, because the ocean is bigger. What emerges from your statements, that is how it should be put, in this is the essence of things. You object, and so strongly, to specific proposals that are designed to improve the safety of children, but what's more, you add to it all the sauce that is associated with false diagnosis and false description of reality. So as not to be literal, there are questions and accusations all the time, as it were directed to me... [[A voice from the room: Look here, Minister. Here, take a look.]] [[Members Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus and Krzysztof Mieszkowski keep a map of church pedophilia in Poland]] ...that we didn't do anything about the events that were described in the Sekielski Brothers' film. Okay, but I'm sorry, I'd like to ask you what you've done, but you've been in charge for eight years. [[But we're asking you, Minister.]] After all, these actions took place when you were in charge, i.e. it's happened before. [[Applause]] What's more, your... [[The voice from the room: You ruled.]] None of these things... [[You've been Minister for four years, and what have you done?]] Don't scream like that, because I understand that your nervousness is the result of your remorse for your inaction in the fight against paedophile crime. [[It's a bust in the O.R.]] Let them show... [[Voice from the room: What did you do?]] ...facts matter. [[Voice from the courtroom: The Lord is the Minister of Justice, not me.]] Facts, not words, not subtitles, but actions. And what are your actions? [[Voice from the room: Watch, 400 victims.]] You defied the pedophile register...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u376	Member of the Commission and Member of the Commission, please...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u377	Who introduced the Polish Criminal Code...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u378	...let go of this banner room.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u379	...the obligation to provide reliable information related to pedophilia? You? Why didn't you? [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: How many times have you told me?]] You've been in charge for so long... [[Voice from the room: We're just standing there]] ...you didn't do it. [[Voice from the room: What have you done for four years? I'm asking you what you did.]] That's what we did. In 2017, the President's proposal came in together with us, which for the first time introduced an order to inform about reliable information related to paedophile crime. [[Member Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: 400 victims.]] Why didn't you do it before? And we did, that's the difference. [[Voice from the O.R.: You didn't do anything.]] You talk, we do. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the O.R.: You didn't do anything.]] We're the ones who brought in the punishment for a specific crime for the behavior of a person who won't notify the law enforcement department with a credible knowledge of the crime he committed. [[Voice from the hall: Then charge the bishops.]] You didn't do it. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Please see...]] [[What's the D.A.'s office doing? He's dying his act.]] Look at the facts. It was us again in 2017 in the further proposal for an amendment that introduced the principle that... [[At least don't lie to me.]] [[Voice from the O.R.: Answer from the D.A.'s office...]] ...children are and will be much more effectively protected in connection with pedophiles. [[The voice from the room: That's what you're doing, you're lying.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u380	Mrs Scheuring-Wielgus and Mr Meysztowicz, I ask you to leave with this banner the sitting room of the Sejm. [[Member Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, raped by priests, raped by priests.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u381	I know you're not interested in the facts...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u382	Excuse me, Mr Mieszkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u383	...because you want to shout facts because you have a conscience that is... [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: These are facts.]] ...related to your inaction, lack of action. It's different that we're acting, and you're yelling, you've got mouths full of clichés, we've got propositions... [[It's a carpathian thing.]] ...specific solutions that hit pedophiles. And you always oppose them, you sow obstruction, just like you do now. There's a project and you don't like it. Why didn't you sharpen those penalties? [[Read this card, Minister, if you can read.]] Minister Grabarczyk said that in 2005 we brought together a crime related to the sexual exploitation of children. Well, I don't... [[You're confusing an accomplice.]] ...Mr. Minister, sir. This crime is still a crime. It's the project we're proposing here that's a crime. I will remind you that in 2007 your votes were rejected by the Penal Code, which introduced a tightening of paedophilia penalties, which allowed children to be protected much more effectively from paedophiles who were detected by law enforcement, which allowed them to be isolated in prison for much longer. And you were against it, you blocked those rules eventually. I will appeal to other demagogical words here - because that's all you can afford - that have been spoken. That's the kind of pictures you can afford, that's the best you can do, that's all you can do. Well, we are accused that the prosecution that I am overseeing can prove much greater detection of sexual crimes. This is true, the detection of sexual crimes has increased, because the prosecution that I am supervising is leading these cases in a much more intense way, including events during your reign. At the time, they were given up, and now they're being initiated... [[Two priests convicted.]] [[But you were just talking right now. Read it. Don't lie to me.]] ...that's why it's statistical growth. The same thing happened to the tenements. [[Two priests convicted of pedophilia are your actions.]] The cases of the tenement in Warsaw were notoriously depreciated. Housekeepers were throwing people out on the street, and you guys had it deep in your nose. Well, we started a few hundred investigations that hit frauds and thieves. [[Don't lie to me.]] We have also imprisoned your supporters and some of your party members in prisons. And today the process of throwing people out on the street in Warsaw has ended thanks to such work of the prosecutor's office. And thanks to the work of the D.A.'s office and the police... [[How many priests have you locked up? How many of them have been searched at home? How many?]] ...the detection of sexual crimes has increased, and that's why there's a statistical increase in this type of crime, because there's an increase in detection, because it's a huge dark number, because you weren't interested, and we're interested. [[Applause]] [[You're interested in Europarment, which one.]] Every other Member here alleged that these dramatic, horrible events that were revealed in the film by the Sekielski brothers were not detected as part of the action... [[Pedophilia in the Church.]] ...the investigators that the D.A.'s office ran when I'm the Attorney General. Let's just look at the dates. Well, some of these crimes took place in the 1980s, in the times of the Polish People's Republic, there was not even the third Polish Republic. [[Hi.]] [[Voice from the room: It was then that Piotrowicz was the prosecutor.]] Well, Fr. Makulski - 1980s, Fr. Jan - the '80s, Fr. Silveryński - the '80s... [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: But breaking the bans was now.]] ... Fr. Cybula - yes, the '90s, Fr. Kania - the two thousand years, was arrested, was arrested, but after a short sentence he unfortunately left because you opposed the tightening of the law during this period. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: scandal.]] We wanted these criminals not to leave. [[Voice from the room: 8 years]] In 2012, he was found again when he wanted to commit another crime against another child in a hotel in Wroclaw, and you opposed the tightening of penalties. [[And you're taking Cimoshevik on the list.]] He could've been in jail if you'd backed our solutions. [[Voice from the room: Painful truth.]] Another example - Fr. Oilcake. After all, this is the time of your reign again. [[The voice from the hall: the hypocrites!]] Which one of those perps mentioned in that movie was acting in a time when I'm the Attorney General? No. And who acted during the period in which you were, during the various periods of your formations, because you were transformed, and Fr. The canyon was stopped then... [[Voice from the room: PSL - 20 years.]] ...and went to jail. Only for a short time, unfortunately, because the court ruled low sentences. We criticized and demanded change, and you didn't support it. You were against this change, you were working for pedophiles. [[Applause]] [[But don't be nervous, Minister.]] You stood in front of the paedophiles, resisting the tightening of punishments, just as some of you have in these statements now. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Exactly.]] You're against tightening your punishments. Well, punishment can't just be inevitable, because what if Father Kania... [[What did the D.A. do?]] ...who you're setting here as an example, has been detained? [[Voice from the room: Innocent.]] He's suffered a very low punishment. And we propose that it be long years for such a man, whether it be a priest, whether it be a plumber or anyone else, or a politician or a journalist. [[A bricklayer. There's been a bricklayer lately.]] [[Voice from the room: Is the director?]] Well, we want someone who commits a cruel paedophile crime to be in prison for years not to say, rot. And you guys were defending people like that... [[Voice from the hall: Is the celebrity?]] ...and that's what makes criminal policy so lenient. [[For now, you're going to die.]] [[Voice from the hall: They fear for their fellow men.]] You're asking me how The amendment will affect priests who commit these crimes. It will affect all those who commit these crimes. After all, everyone, regardless of what profession he does, if he is detained after the law on these crimes comes into force, will be in prison for years and will not harm any child. Punishment for hiding pedophiles - this thread appeared several times. Okay, let's do it again. How it is necessary to be false and cynical to accuse us that we have done nothing, in a situation where it is we who have prepared a change that introduces the criminality of this kind of behavior, such as not informing about the known fact of pedophilia. This is our proposal, forced, entered into the code... [[And who did you punish? And who did you punish? Tell me about it.]] And you're criticizing us for that. We have also introduced a measure in the form of a lifetime ban on contact with children in recent years, and we have had no support here from you. [[Father Oilczak.]] What did you do? You voted mostly against. You mostly had mouths full of hypocrisy. You've been responsible for the state's action for so long, for the prosecution's actions, for the police's actions. What were you doing? - I'm asking. Mostly you protected pedophiles, resisting the severity of punishment for them. [[Voice from the room: Yes, it was!]] [[Voice from the room: Of course.]] [[Voice from the room: Read this letter. That's where it was.]] You're accusing a public record of branding the victims. That's very interesting. In the United States, in many other countries, open registers are functioning and everyone thinks that this is affecting the safety of children, and you claim, under such pretext, that this is not the case. Well, the pedophile registry law contains a record that allows courts to weigh each time before deciding whether or not it will have negative consequences for the victim. And the courts benefit from this solution without revealing when it may violate the interests of the victims. Anyway, they should, because it's their responsibility. To sum up, the arguments that have been made are rather evidence of the lack of argument, of your weakness, of the politicalisation of the matter, of the lack of sensitivity, of empathy towards the suffering of the victims, of the children, because if you had really shown this sensitivity and willingness to help children, you would have long supported the changes that we have also presented in previous years, which have been used to tighten the penalties for sexual crimes. Yeah, I'm gonna answer the question that came out here. Namely, in 2010, this spokesperson of the rights of the child, paradoxically chosen by you, asked your government, the government of the Civic Platform, when the government was presided over by a Donald Tusk, to introduce a statute of limitations in the case of rape and pedophilia crimes. So? You rejected this solution. Mr Boris Budka said that this is a proposal that has only now been brought into the project as a result of the debate that is taking place. Well, you're wrong. The proposal to eliminate the statute of limitations of all rape crimes, not only in relation to children, appeared for the first time in 2017 as one of the versions of this project. And it was announced by me at a press conference. And in the end, as a result of the various negotiations and discussions that took place in the context of the process of law enforcement, because this is what you know very well, this version, which is submitted here, and the elimination of the limitation applies to this crime, but only to children and not to adults. In this case, there is also a case-law in Strasbourg, which indicates that certain boundaries which are also required in relation to international standards in terms of statute of limitations cannot be exceeded. Ladies and gentlemen! The government's proposal is a very clear and firm answer, showing that we do not want and will not indulge such criminals, showing that criminals are to be afraid and children to be much safer. If we go beyond political divisions, if we move away from cynical political counts and decide to think about the welfare of children, then we all together, I trust, raise our voices for these changes. I trust it will lead to... [[When are you stopping the priests?]] [[Voice from the room: Don't yell.]] ...an important improvement in the safety of those who deserve this safety, expect.... [[When will you answer the questions?!]] And we are committed to ensuring that they are safe. So the actions... [[What have you done since Saturday?]] [[Voice from the room: Don't yell!]] ...not words, deeds, not empty words and passwords without covering, which are shown on flags. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Voice from the courtroom, Marshal...]] [[How many decisions to bring to the D.A.'s office?]] We show the result of deeds and believe that you will support them. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u384	Mrs Pomaska, I would like to point out that you are interfering with the proceedings of the Sejm. As a correction, Mr Cezary Grabarczyk. One minute. You're welcome. [[Scandal and embarrassment.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u385	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You misunderstood not only my statement, but also those of the opposition who clearly advocated an effective fight against pedophilia crime. [[Applause]] None of the opposition politicians ever protected pedophilia in the Republic of Poland. [[Applause]] The point is, you have to fight pedophilia effectively, you have to act, not tell stories. [[It's the result of your actions.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u386	The discussion is closed. Marshal of the Sejm pursuant to Art. 87. 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm decided to consider this draft law in non-codex mode. Therefore, this project cannot be addressed to the Extraordinary Commission on changes in codification. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the Penal Code and certain other laws contained in print No 3451 to the Legislative Commission for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. [[Voice from the courtroom: Objection, Marshal.]] So what's the objection? [[Legal.]] What offer? [[Voice from the room: To the codification room.]] You can't. [[Education.]] Well, in that case, I'd like you to state your name. What committee? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Codification or education.]] [[To the Committee on Justice and Human Rights.]] Okay, ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed to the vote on this proposal during the vote. Hello, young people from Zakliczyn and Brzesk listening to our discussions. [[Applause]] I'm declaring a time-out. 17.10. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 min 52 hours 17 min 14]] I'm reopening the session. We can, right? We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Penal Code Act and some other laws. In view of the proposal of the Sejm Bureau to refer this draft law to the Legislative Commission, an objection was raised proposing that the draft be sent to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. I will put to the vote the proposal given by the Sejm Bureau. Its rejection will mean that the Sejm has sent the bill to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. The question is asked by Boris Budek. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u387	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to obtain from you a marshal, if I may, an explanation of why the law, which bears the title: on the amendment of the law of the Penal Code, is directed by your Marshal - in my opinion, contrary to the Sejm's rules - to the Legislative Commission, which has no such application in its sphere of competence. I would like to remind you that the codification committee has a subcommittee to amend criminal law. We have just learned that this bill is the result of many months of work by the Ministry of Justice, and therefore there is no possibility that a 40-page revision of the Penal Code should be adopted quickly in the Legislative Commission. In my opinion, there's been a breach of the article. 87 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, because the Penal Code, its amendment, requires the process of amending the codes. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would very much ask you to put your original motion to the vote... [[Not a pedophile weapon.]] ...which concerned referral to the codification committee instead of to the Legislative Commission. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u388	Thank you, sir. Mrs Dolniak, right? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u389	I have a question about similar content. Today we heard, and in fact yesterday from the media, we learned, and today from this Parliamentary Speaker, that this project is the result of many months of work. And you want us to convert the project that counts for the 40-page rules themselves in a quick, urgent way. We have pedophilia regulations right now, we can apply them, we just need to apply them. It's not like there's a legal gap and we can't apply it. Therefore, there is no obstacle to working on this law for at least a few weeks, I no longer say months or days and refer this project, as it should, to the Extraordinary Commission on changes in codification. She's called to handle codes. You're introducing an urgent procedure like we have a legal gap. You're saying this project is the result of a few months in jail. Or maybe a few days, and that's why you're offering us a job in the Sejm in a few days. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u390	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Długi. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u391	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! I have a question as to whether a compromise could not be found. We all want to fight pedophilia, we all want to change the Penal Code on pedophilia, but also others. The criminal code requires a profound change, and there is some agreement, but let's work a little deeper and wider on it. We will not be able to do this in such a short period of time, so we need to focus only on pedophilia at the moment. And that we can actually do today, while the general changes in the Penal Code that are needed, let us introduce in a normal way, even during the month. You can't do that so fast. It's about our freedom, it's about the fight against crime. We're in favour of increasing penalties, we're in favour of increasing efficiency. Without law enforcement, the law is worthless, so we need to increase the possibilities for law enforcement. On the other hand, it is simply pointless to make such a serious change to the Penal Code. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u392	Thank you very much. I'm gonna answer that, 'cause there's actually some questions for me. In part, I agree with Mr Długo's statement, for that was, among others, the case. intentions as to why the Legislative Commission was proposed. However, the point is that we cannot vote on the referral of this draft law to the codification committee because - as I said earlier at the meeting of the Sejm Bureau, the Seniors Convention - Marshal of the Sejm took advantage of the possibilities offered by the Sejm's Rules of Procedure. I'll quote the article. 87. 2, which reads: Marshal of the Sejm, giving course to the project - it is about code projects, potentially code projects - decides ultimately... [[Is he a code?]] ...or is it one of the draft laws specifically referred to in relation to the codes. And after considering the social conditions, the great expectation - and, as I understand it, everyone agrees that this problem, which Mr Długi was talking about, must be resolved - and secondly, the government's proposal, which asked for quick work, the urgent work according to this social condition, I felt that I would be able to benefit from the article. 87. 2, which gives the marshal such an opportunity that the marshal ultimately decides. I've decided it's not code mode, and that's why, ladies and gentlemen, there's no vote on the code committee. There is opposition to referral to the Legislative Commission with a proposal to refer to the Committee on Justice. Ladies and gentlemen, generally speaking, the Sejm will make the decision. I presented the proposal, ma'am, at the meeting of the Sejm Bureau and of the Sejm Bureau, by a majority, to be dealt with by the Legislative Committee, inter alia. for this reason, which Mr Grzegorz Długi referred to. Maybe he'll find a prescription. I would like to remind you that in the annex to the resolution of the Sejm of 30 July 1992 there is a specific scope of operation of the Sejm committees. The Commission's activities include: considering draft laws and resolutions of particular legal importance, a significant degree of legislative complexity, etc., etc. This fits, in my opinion, in these categories, please, this scope of action of the committee shows that the committee can deal with this draft law, but I repeat: this is what the Sejm will decide. That's my explanation. [[Mr. Marshal, formal motion.]] We're done here. [[But I have a right to ask.]] Mr President, for the third time, I draw your attention. Please don't disturb me. [[But with a formal proposal on this issue, I'm making a request.]] This is the third time I've come to your attention. [[No, for the first time.]] [[But I have the right to make a formal application.]] Don't make me... [[I'm not forcing you to do anything. I'm just filing a formal motion.]] ...for the application of Article. 175. [[But I have the right to file a formal motion.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of referring the draft law contained in print No 3451 to the Legislative Commission, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Mr. Marshal, I have a formal motion for this matter.]] 367 Members voted. The vote was 217, against 148, with two abstentions. I find the Sejm has accepted the offer. [[Mr. Marshal, I'd like a formal motion.]] I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[It's not like you can't give me a vote on a formal motion. How can you do this? What the hell is that?]] [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 mins 22 hrs. 17 min 26]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the law on enforcement proceedings in the administration and some other laws (print No 3379). Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Mr Filip Świtała will present the reasons for the bill. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u393	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law on which we are proceeding is intended to implement into the legal order the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 28 June 2016. The Constitutional Tribunal found the provisions of the Enforcement Act in the administration incompatible with the Constitution, which do not specify the upper limit of the handling fee and one of the fees for enforcement: the seizure of the monetary claim. In addition, they require that enforcement fees be levied in full also in the event of voluntary payment by the obliged party. In its judgment, the Constitutional Tribunal recognised the need to analyse the whole system of enforcement costs in order to improve those provisions. At the same time, the judgment of the Constitutional Court did not repeal the provisions currently in force but ordered them to be amended. At the moment, the situation is that both the handling fee and all enforcement fees are charged on a percentage basis. The amount shall be subject to the amount of the claim to be recovered. For example, the handling fee is 1% the amount of that claim, i.e. the nominal amount of the claim to be recovered. Enforcement fees range from 4% to 10% the amount to be recovered, depending on the enforcement action taken by the administrative executioner. It is important that the fee applies to each enforcement operation, regardless of whether the execution is effective. Regardless of whether the amounts to be enforced are collected, the fee shall be charged and the fee shall in principle be charged to the obliged person, but in many cases, where the sums cannot be recovered from the obliged person, it shall be charged to the creditor. The proposed law creates a new system of enforcement costs, in which the amount of the handling fee depends on the expenditure incurred by the authorities until the start of the execution, i.e. a fee which essentially concerns the material and technical activities of the enforcement authority which are related to the costs incurred in connection with the enforcement and enforcement service. Secondly, the amount of enforcement fees will be linked to the effect of enforcement, i.e. will depend on the amount of the duty actually incurred. In the submitted project, we provide for two quota rates of handling fee. The enforcement authority will charge 40 PLN for the preliminary examination of the implementing title when initiating proceedings. It will be a fee corresponding to the cost of verification of documents, the data of the obliged person, the assessment of the formal correctness of the implementing title, the completeness of the applications. When enforcement proceedings are initiated, this fee will increase to PLN 100 and this amount will be charged as a fixed amount, covering administrative costs related to operations such as the collection of information on the assets of the obliged person, i.e. the request for assets, and sometimes devoted to the verification of assets of the obliged person in the information systems available to the enforcement authority. We propose that the amount of the enforcement fee should be uniform and be 10% the funds enforced and its upper limit was 40 000. zł. We also propose that, in the case of voluntary payment of the amounts sought by the obliged person, it be possible to reduce this fee - to encourage the obliged person to settle the debt as soon as possible - to 5% the amount recovered, with a limit of not more than 20 000. PLN in this case. We propose to extend the catalog of enforcement expenses, such as the cost of commuting the collector to the obliged person, correspondence costs, transport costs of occupied movable property. We would like to add to these costs a court fee for the entry in the perpetual ledger or the entry in the National Court Register for the initiation of execution, in particular where this applies to the entry in the book of perpetual compulsory mortgage that protects the debts of Member States and third countries. Poland, as a member of the European Community and as a country which is dating other countries on legal aid, is required in some cases also to execute foreign claims. We want the execution costs to be preventive. It's about knowing that he's gonna pay the execution costs. The change we are introducing here will consist in the fact that the amount of enforcement costs will already be indicated in a reminder, so he will be able to respond even before enforcement proceedings are initiated and for example. obtain this reduction, which I mentioned, i.e. will then pay half of the execution costs, not the full amount of enforcement costs, i.e. 5% instead of 10%. The project envisages a change in the cost relief system, provides for remission, distribution into instalments. This is theoretically possible at the moment, but the rules are somewhat inconsistent in this case, because what the enforcement authority can do is it does on the basis of, say, the proper application of the Public Finance Act. We want this issue to be regulated in the Enforcement Act in the administration and that the rules directly constitute the conditions for reducing these costs, for cutting these costs, for granting reliefs, and for the Enforcement Act in the administration to have its own state aid rules. We also propose the introduction of rules governing the limitation of the costs of reminders and enforcement costs. Currently, there is no separate regulation on the limitation of enforcement costs and the costs of notice, the tax administration applies on a daily basis, which makes the same provisions applicable to those claims as to the obligations which are subject to investigation. Our proposal is that we will introduce a uniform 3-year limitation period for the costs of reminders and enforcement costs. The project also provides for the waiver of the bail-in fee. This is the fee that is collected at the end of enforcement operations when the creditor receives from the enforcement authority the amount of the funds enforced. The amount of the bail-in fee shall be 5%. the amounts transferred to the creditor. We propose that this fee be removed from the enforcement system. We are also introducing some simplifications regarding the reopening of the administrative execution procedure. Currently, a new enforcement title is the basis for reopening the administrative execution. These are certain formalities that the creditor must carry out. We propose that enforcement proceedings may be reopened if it is established that the assets of the obliged person are somewhere, only on the basis of a repeated notification to the obliged person that this procedure will continue. We are also introducing a novelty to facilitate the fulfilment of those obligations that are being incurred in the execution process. We propose that we introduce a circle of entities that can pay a monetary amount for the obliged person. This will also apply to interest, of course also to the cost of warning and enforcement costs. The payment for the obliged person will be able to make the debtor in kind, e.g. the current owner of the property charged with a compulsory mortgage to which the execution is directed, or the owner of the movable property charged with the tax pledge, i.e. a similar situation where the person is interested in ending the execution, especially if he wants to sell the mortgaged property. We propose - and this is an important novel - the introduction of the possibility of payment by the people closest to the obliged person, i.e. by a spouse, children, parents or siblings. This, of course, is voluntary. We will only honor such payment if it is clearly stated that the person closest to us regulates the obligation for someone else, for a family member, so that it is fully clear that this person regulates someone else's obligations. In other cases, it will also be possible, but only up to 5,000. zł, i.e. it will be possible to pay for the obliged person, but only up to the amount of 5 thousand. zł. In the transitional provisions, we provide in enforcement proceedings initiated and not completed before the date of entry into force of the Act for the collection of existing enforcement costs, but with a reduction in their amount, i.e. here with the introduction of this limitation, which the Court questioned. The handling fee will be charged in no amount higher than PLN 100 and a residual fee of not more than PLN 40 000. zł. We propose that the amended provisions enter into force 18 months after the date of the announcement, and in the particular case of the bail-in fee that we are removing, it will cease to apply from 1 January of the year following the entry into force of the Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u394	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Waldemar Bud will speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u395	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present an opinion, a position on the Law amending the Law on Enforcement in Administration and some other laws. Ladies and gentlemen! The amendment of the law follows the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 28 June 2016, which pointed out the need to amend the rules, generally speaking, precisely on enforcement fees, while the amendment itself goes much further, it is systemic in its approach to changes in the charging of enforcement fees in the administration, completely redesigning these issues. First of all, the Court questioned the situation in which the enforcement fee does not have a maximum value and does not depend on the action, which is not linked to the costs of enforcement proceedings in the administration. Of course, the project responds to this, essentially remodeling it. Firstly, a levy shall be cancelled which does not take into account the possible collection of the claim. This 10% charge depends on efficiency, i.e. the collection of part or all of the charges. Of course, there's an upper limit. We can't even talk about tens of thousands of fees here in the absence of action or efficiency. The maximum fee is 40,000. PLN and, of course, meets the expectations of the tribunal. A number of changes also apply to the handling fee, which is relatively low today, in quota terms. All these changes are remodeling the system. They move towards efficiency and execute the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. For these reasons, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u396	Thank you. Ms Katarzyna Osos, Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u397	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Club to present a position towards the government draft law amending the Law on Enforcement in Administration and some other laws, print no.3379. By judgment of 28 June 2016, the Constitutional Tribunal ruled that the provisions on enforcement in the administration were incompatible with the Constitution, in so far as they did not specify the maximum amount of the enforcement fee and the handling fee respectively, and in so far as they did not provide for the possibility of reducing the enforcement fee and the handling fee in the event of the withdrawal of the proceedings due to the voluntary payment of the enforcement fee after enforcement. At the same time, the Court pointed out that, for the proper implementation of the judgment, the legislator should determine not only the maximum amount of those fees but also the maximum amount of other enforcement fees, and also how these fees should be calculated in the event of redemption of the proceedings in connection with the voluntary payment of the enforcement fee after enforcement. Thus, the proposed regulation provides for the setting of two amounts of the handling fee, regardless of the amount of the debt covered by the implementing title to be collected separately from each implementing title, the introduction of a enforcement fee levied in proportion to the cash being enforced, the reduction in the amount of the enforcement fee in case of voluntary payment of the enforcement fee, the non-imposition of enforcement costs of a creditor operating within a State budgetary unit or a State budgetary unit, the extension of the catalogue of enforcement expenditure, the amendment of the conditions for the remission of enforcement costs and the payment of those costs in instalments, the introduction of provisions governing the limitation of enforcement costs and the cost of enforcement, the withdrawal of the bail-in fee, and the revision of procedures for the re-launch of administrative executions resulting from the amended provisions on enforcement costs. High Izbo! As a club, we are in favour of putting the project into further work. The judgments of the tribunal must, of course, be enforced. A number of comments were submitted to the project during the consultation. Some of them have been taken into account. During the committee's work, it will be possible to re-examine the comments not included so that - at least the Confederation of Leviathan - the fees are not separated from the actual expenditure incurred by enforcement authorities and do not form part of the additional penalty. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u398	Thank you. I invite Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u399	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 against the government draft law amending the law on enforcement proceedings in the administration and some other laws, print no. 3379. Ladies and gentlemen! This law is intended to implement the judgment of the Constitutional Court. The Court found that the absence of a maximum enforcement fee and the absence of an indication of the method of calculating handling fees were incompatible with the Constitution. So here in this case, the project is not controversial. For the sake of clarity, the Kukiz Club will offer its Members support and further work on the project in committee. However, it is controversial that such a law has been in operation for years in the Polish legal system. It is interesting that we are dealing with hundreds of different legal changes of less and more importance, and it turns out that there are no clear rules in enforcement proceedings in the administration, according to which fees such as handling fees are set or execution fees. These are, after all, charges that citizens have to pay out of their own pockets, or more graphically, with their hard-earned money. The question can therefore be asked: Is a country in which there are no specific rules, and the rules that exist are implemented on the basis of one I see, a state of law? So, ladies and gentlemen, in order not to prolong, we are in favour of sending the project to the committee. The Poselski Kukiz Club15 will recommend to its Members that they opt for further proceding on this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u400	I invite Mrs Genowefa Tokarska to speak on behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u401	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I have the honour to present my position towards the government's draft law amending the law on enforcement proceedings in the administration and some other laws, print no.3379. As my previous speakers said, the draft law is, of course, a response to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of June 2016 concerning enforcement proceedings in the administration. The Constitutional Tribunal pointed out the need for the legislator to intervene in determining the amount of the enforcement and handling fee and to determine how those fees should be calculated also in the event of the cancellation of the enforcement procedure. As has been said, the Minister spoke of it. The project provides for the setting of two rates of handling fee. The first, the lower, of PLN 40 on each implementing title, regardless of the amount covered by the title, was charged for the fact that enforcement proceedings were initiated. The second, in the amount of PLN 100, is collected as soon as the execution begins or starts. The project also provides for a 10% enforcement fee the amount of cash executed, but not more than 40 000. zł, but already in the case of voluntary payment of charges there is a reduction in the amount of the enforcement fee to 5% the funds obtained and up to a maximum of 20 000. zł. The project rightly exempts from enforcement costs a creditor operating within a national budgetary unit or a state budgetary unit. In addition, a catalogue of enforcement expenditure, such as e.g. the costs of correspondence, the costs of court proceedings relating to the entry for the seizure of claims in the permanent register or the entry in the National Court Register. The list of enforcement expenses also includes reasonable costs related to e.g. with the assistance of the enforcement authority by the services: Police, Border Guard, ABW or Intelligence Agency. The obligation to pay enforcement expenditure shall not arise when the monetary amount, interest and costs of the notice are paid or remitted in full after the execution procedure has been initiated, but definitely before the administrative execution itself has been initiated. It should be noted that, in principle, at each stage of the enforcement procedure, the project gives the debtor such an opportunity to reduce enforcement costs in the event of voluntary payment of the debt. This applies also to handling fees, and enforcement fees, and other enforcement costs. It must be acknowledged that these regulations provide incentives for voluntary payment of charges. The bill also abolishes the bail-in fee applied in principle Only by the chiefs of the IRS. Moreover, of course, it will have an impact on the public finance sector. The annual revenue of the state budget will increase by PLN 333 million. The annual revenue of local government units acting as enforcement authorities, because not all of them have such functions, will increase by 10 million. The annual revenue of the ZUS will increase by PLN 75.4 million. In this respect, it should be noted that these revenues are no longer valid for the coming year after the introduction of the law and will be achieved in the third year of the law. Five regulations of the Minister of Finance are also an integral part of the project, including a proposal for printing. In conclusion, the draft law under discussion takes into account the observations made by the Constitutional Court's judgment, introducing very detailed rules on enforcement proceedings in the administration. We express our opinion on the project's referral to further work in Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u402	Thank you, Member. As regards the Modern Club, Mr Mirosław Pampuch made his written statement. We proceed to ask questions at this point. Is someone...? You're welcome. I'll keep that in mind. Is there anyone besides the Member who wants to add himself to the list of people asking questions? I can't see. So I'm closing the list. We begin with the question that Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice will ask. You're welcome. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u403	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask this question: Is the treatment of a handling charge exceeding the actual handling costs as a form of sanctions so-called. educational, preventive, is within the legal limits of the law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u404	Thank you. And another question will be asked by Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u405	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question. The state in this project proposes to increase the fee for initiating executions from 40 PLN to 100 PLN, arguing that the citizen who will be aware that he will have to pay not 40 PLN, but 100 PLN, will, however, pay his debt. Question: "What about these citizens, who e.g. they are not aware that they owe some money - it is about debt to the office - or with those who, for example. They have a problem with their payment on time, and it turns out that this debt is due to the fact that they just don't have any money? Then you drive their country into the so-called. a spiral of debt, because instead of having an additional load of 40 zlotys, they will have an additional load of 100 zlotys. Is that a rational action? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u406	Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u407	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The amount of the enforcement fee should be balanced between the reimbursement of expenditure on enforcement proceedings - it should cover these expenditures - and the protection of entities that have been subject to enforcement proceedings against excessive fiscalism of the State. I wanted to ask if this balance was preserved. Because on the one hand, this fee is increasing, on the other hand, the simulations that we have in the explanatory statement do not indicate that. No expenditure is specified which is incurred for enforcement proceedings. I'd like the Minister to comment on that. What's with the balance? Aren't enforcement fees too high? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u408	And the last question at this point will be asked by Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u409	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Enforcement proceedings in the administration and enforcement proceedings conducted by bailiffs. I would like to ask you whether you will also propose a solution so that the costs of enforcement proceedings in the event of voluntary repayment of the commitment, i.e. the outstanding debt which is the basis for the proceedings, are limited to the amount enforced. In this case, it is the tax administration, enforcement proceedings in the administration. Is this how it will be conducted in enforcement proceedings by bailiffs? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u410	This question and previous questions will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Filip Świtała. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u411	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As regards your questions, I would like to reassure you that we treat the handling fee as an administrative fee, as a bank charge for checking a credit claim. We've calculated how much it costs us to do these preliminary tasks, e.g. the determination of the obliged person. We've calculated how much it costs. On average, 68 zlotys come out. And that's the amount that we kind of weighed. We have this 40 PLN at the time of the examination of this implementing title. If the obliged person pays by then, it is 40 PLN. If there are further steps, i.e. you will have to submit a motion for enforcement, this handling fee will increase to PLN 100, so it will not be 40 plus 100, only 40 plus 60, which will be PLN 100 in total. And in a medium way, it reflects the costs that we bear in these handling activities at the beginning. The question was whether the handling fee would raise the awareness of debtors. As far as consciousness is concerned, in general, when we start execution proceedings and someone doesn't know they're obliged, they get reprimanded. So this model that you have to send a reminder to the obliged person exists. The creditor must do so in order to make a request to the enforcement authority at all. Documents are coming to the enforcement authority. One of them must be a confirmation that he has received a warning that he has been reprimanded to pay. I don't think it's easy to talk about a situation like this that someone won't know that he's in danger of being executed. Mrs Czernow asked whether enforcement fees are not too high, whether such excessive fiscalism is possible as regards the possibility of these charges. That's how I'd explain it. The current situation is that these fees are levied relatively, i.e. in amounts of 4, 5, 6 or 10% from any execution operation. It doesn't matter if this enforcement action, at all, the entire execution will lead to the collection of any amounts. It is therefore a question of putting in place a guarantee that the fee will depend on the actual effects. If the obliged person pays something, a fee of 10% will be charged. But from the amount we've downloaded. In the current system, the fee is charged on the amount of the denomination of the undertaking. This means that it is downloaded regardless of the effects. It is necessary to adopt some criteria for this investigation of these enforcement fees. We also need to remember that it's not like someone didn't voluntarily pay something, didn't know. This is a proceeding that aims to enforce the law. If someone doesn't pay, you pay, you pay, we all pay. It means that we bear the costs, all those who normally pay taxes or some of their debts, their liabilities. In fact, we keep this camera to get money from this unreliable debtor. And these execution costs can in many cases be covered. There could be a situation where we don't download anything and we don't cover those costs. It's calculated to cover those execution costs. Unfortunately, that's what it costs. I do not see any justification for the State to bear the costs of what is necessary in order to comply with the obligation by execution, i.e. by compulsory removal. And the last question about voluntary repayment. I mentioned this during the presentation of the bill. Voluntary payment involves a reduction in costs. [[But the bailiffs, not the administration.]] In the administration. I can answer for that. On the other hand, when it comes to bailiffs, the question is rather to the justice department, which, I understand, deals with bailiffs, because they are supervised by the Minister of Justice. We're in charge of administrative execution. We have proposed a solution which, in our view, is an appropriate solution. The point is that voluntary repayment reduces those costs which are currently not subject to voluntary repayment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u412	Thank you. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u413	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Poselski Club I am pleased to present the position of the club regarding the government draft law amending the law on enforcement proceedings in the administration and some other laws, print no. 3379. The aim of the proposed proposal is to bring the law into line with the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 28 June 2016 on non-compliance with Article. Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. 64 § 1 point 4 and § 6 the Law of 17 June 1966 on enforcement proceedings in the administration. This project aims to determine not only the maximum amount of the enforcement fee referred to in Article. 64 § 1 point 4 and the handling fee referred to in Article. 64 § 6, but also the maximum amount of other enforcement fees. In addition, it is intended to determine how these fees are to be calculated in the event of redemption of the proceedings in connection with the voluntary payment of the enforcement fee after enforcement. The objectives set are to be met by setting two amounts of the handling fee, regardless of the amount of the duty covered by the implementing title, to be collected separately from each implementing title: 40 PLN for the initiation of enforcement proceedings, which is increased to 100 PLN when administrative execution is initiated, and by introducing instead enforcement fees levied in proportion to the amount of 10% of the funds enforced amounts of cash executed but not more than PLN 40,000. In addition, the project submitted reduces the enforcement fee by half in case of voluntary payment of the enforcement fee. Unfortunately, I have reservations about the inappropriate way of regulating the limitation period for the costs of warning and its detachment from the calculation of the costs of warning and too complicated and difficult to determine when the limitation period begins. The amount of the reminder costs should not exceed the existence of the principal. We hope that this will be changed in the course of the Committee's further work on the draft submitted. In the course of the public consultation, it was requested to introduce the possibility for the tax collector to collect the amounts recovered through a mobile terminal using a payment card, provided that this is the implementation of the enforcement measure. Although this proposal does not constitute the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Court, the execution of which is the subject of the proposal submitted, it must be taken into account. The Ministry shall ensure that a separate draft law amending the law on enforcement proceedings in the administration is prepared for this proposal. For the stability of the Polish legal system, it is better for one law to be amended by one comprehensive law, not a series of successive projects. Unfortunately, we are used to the fact that even two projects amending the same law may be carried out during one session of the Sejm. I hope that the next proposal for amendments to the Enforcement Act in the administration will be much broader and will also take into account the proposals for changes made during the public consultation to the current proposal. Members of the Committee will vote in favour of the proposal submitted for further work in committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u414	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the governmental drafts of the Act amending the Law on Enforcement in Administration and certain other laws, contained in print No. 3379, to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report from the Rules of Procedure Committee on Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity on the application of the Chief Police Commissioner of 20 December 2018 to the Sejm's consent to criminal liability for the offence by Joanna Schmidt (print No 3354). Mr Kazimierz Smolinski will present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u415	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the report of the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee on the request of the Chief Police Commissioner of 20 December 2018 to allow the Sejm to be held liable for the offence of Joanna Schmidt. The Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity Commission, having considered this request at its meeting on 3 April 2019 on the basis of the Act implementing the mandate of Member and Senator, shall submit a proposal to the Chief Police Officer's request of 20 December 2018 to agree by the Sejm to be held liable for the offence of Joanna Schmidt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u416	Let me remind you that the Sejm according to the article. Article 133 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall examine the committee's report by listening only to the rapporteur. The Member concerned shall also have the right to speak. This report is not discussed. There is no Mrs Joanna Schmidt in the plenary room, and we will therefore proceed to the vote on this issue in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Rules of Procedure Committee on Parliament's Affairs and Immunity on the application of the private prosecutor David Wachowiak of 5 December 2018, supplemented on 5 February 2019, to the Sejm's consent to the criminal liability of Mr Sławomir Nitras (print No 3406). Mrs Halina Szydleko will present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u417	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present a report to the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee on the application of the private prosecutor David Wachowiak of 5 December 2018, supplemented on 5 February 2019 by the Sejm's consent to the criminal liability of Mr Sławomir Nitras. The Marshal of the Sejm addressed a request to the Rules of Procedure, Parliaments' and Immunities Committee for consideration on 21 February 2019. The Rules of Procedure Commission examined that request on 25 April 2019. Mr Sławomir Nitras did not appear at the committee meeting, but he sent a letter to the chairman of the committee claiming that the invitation to the committee meeting was sent only by e-mail and considers this to be ineffective service. Since he had not received correspondence to the address of the parliamentary office, he did not have time to appoint a representative. In view of his other duties, he requested that a new date be set for the committee meeting. The president explained that the method of service applied was the standard procedure, the solution which was established in 2013 was Resolution No 5 of the Bureau of the Sejm of 5 March 2013. The form of service of the notification is to send it by e-mail to the official address of the Sejm of the Member. In addition, I have the Rules of Procedure of the Rules of Procedure, which in the Rule. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 provides that the time limit for examining the application shall be notified to the Member concerned by e-mail to the official address of the Sejm as soon as the committee meeting has been convened. Therefore, all the rules have been respected and Mr Nitras's proposal has not been justified. The case file confirms that Mr Sławomir Nitras read the information on 15 April 2019 at 3 p.m. 11.32. The event under investigation took place on 22 November 2018 in the vicinity of pl. A parade in Warsaw. Acting with direct intent, Mr Nitras insulted Mr David Wachowiak in such a way that during the intervention of the police towards the person interfering with the legal assembly organized by the Pro Foundation - Right to Life in Warsaw he used the terms: punk, shithead, idiot and a bunch of psychos, which in the opinion of the private prosecutor insulted him, and also violated his physical immunity by poking, pushing and punching. The private indictment and the application are based not only on the claims of the victim, but mainly on film material. It is attached to a private indictment which, in a way that leaves no doubt, proves the Member's guilt towards the applicant. [[You know what?]] According to the applicant. I'm reporting. In the discussion, a committee member requested that the next meeting be scheduled in the absence of Mr Nitras. However, the absence of a Member does not result in the Commission's work on the proposal being suspended without prejudicing the guilt, because this will be decided by the court. As regards the application of the private prosecutor David Wachowiak of 5 December 2018, supplemented by 5 February 2019, the Sejm's consent to the criminal liability of Mr Sławomir Nitras, the committee proposes to accept this request. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u418	Thank you. Let me remind you that the Sejm according to the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall examine the committee's report by listening only to the rapporteur. The Member concerned shall also have the right to speak. This report shall not be discussed. I see that Mr Nitras is on his way, and in fact he is already standing by the speaker, so please, because you have the right to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u419	Thank you, Marshal. The honourable Member was gracious to say that she has the honour. You should be ashamed. You should be ashamed, because first of all, with your statements - I will direct this case to legal analysis - you have decided, three times you have decided, then you have reserved yourself for the third time, but initially you have judged my guilt. You said what I did, which isn't true. Because I wasn't at any demonstration, I didn't touch anyone, I didn't hit anyone, I didn't insult anyone. No one. That's a statement. You didn't even have the courage to read the name of this organization, this disgraceful organization that fights women - Ordo Iuris. Because that's what this organization's called. You didn't even have the courage to replace it. Shame on you. Everyone who voted, you're ashamed. Firstly, you should be ashamed because the norm in this committee has always been to postpone the sitting, if the Member has asked for it. I wasn't avoiding this meeting. Calling in that I got an e-mail notice and your rules of procedure regulates... I'm not interested in your internal rules, I'm interested in the law. Everyone has the right to read the documents and get a notice 7 days before. Indeed, it was during the session of the Sejm. I had other responsibilities, and I asked you to reschedule. No, in the absence of Members of the Platform, in the absence of Members of the opposition, only one could attend this meeting - without my proxy... 'Cause that's how you guys like it. You like to hurt someone, you like to hurt someone, you like to talk to someone about accusations. You just like it that way, and you like it when someone doesn't have the right to defend themselves. But I'll tell you -- except that you should be ashamed, just so humanly ashamed -- that you're actually in my business. Because nothing better can happen to me than the trial and the talk from Ordo Iuris in the election campaign. Because the opinion of this organization is clear. This is an extreme, harmful, anti-state, extremist organization that threatens, in my opinion, social loading in Poland. He dishonors women, offends women, uses provocations in his business, and does nothing good. And this organization is accusing me of being sent to the Sejm. If you take your functions seriously - I address the Members of the PiS - then you would defend Members in this exact situation. Because he has the right to express his views, to express his views. But you follow the principle that even if there are criminal charges against your fellow Members, you do not waive immunity. And as anybody under any pretext demands the waiver of the immunity of a Member of the Platform or any other opposition party, you do so with pure pleasure. Remember, everything you create, somewhere in the end, comes back to you. About the incident itself. It was actually around the cultural palace. All of my participation in this event was that when I left the Palace of Culture, in the presence of other parliamentarians who would witness it, I saw a scene like this. There was no demonstration anywhere, at least I, I certainly didn't participate in it. I've seen an incident like this that two perverts, teenage appendages, like 18 or 19-year-olds, hold a 60-year-old woman in their arms. In the back, holding her hand. And this lady, when she saw me, said: Mr Nitras, please help me! Please help me! Because these gentlemen are holding me. I really think that any normal person in this situation would at least come up and ask what's going on, what's going on. It turned out that these gentlemen - as it turned out later, because I didn't know it - participated in a demonstration that I didn't see there. And that lady got into some kind of argument with them. And they, in their belief, made the arrest of a 60-year-old woman, by her hands, in the middle of the street, because she had done something against them. My whole involvement in this incident was that I asked them to let this lady go. And I tried to cover this lady with my own body so she could walk away. I want to let you know that if I had a chance at a committee meeting, I'd tell you, but you're not interested. Besides, you know, you're gonna go down in history as a messenger who's only gonna be associated with one thing. Except she lowered her pay for herself and everyone else, because the government took the reward. That's why I'm not surprised you're not interested. There were police at the scene. And these Ordo Iuris gentlemen have filed a police report on me. I have a document. I can't show it to you, I mean. I could show it to you, but I don't see why. I would like to inform the High House that the police refused to initiate proceedings because they found errors during this whole incident. Because the police showed up ten seconds after I got there, maybe fifteen. And the police refused to initiate proceedings because they said I didn't do anything to anyone. I didn't do anything to anyone. Because I didn't do anything to anyone. These boys, on the other hand, flew with their phones, recorded, tried to provoke me to some sort of event. It didn't happen. You know, the way you and your fellow Members treat Members leads to the fact that only priests today have less social respect than we do. Because you guys don't respect each other. The fact that you don't respect each other is half poor. But you don't respect who the Member is. You do not respect the fact that a Member should be a certain authority. He should have... Not everyone has the right to insult the envoy. Not everyone has the right to jerk an MP over a collar under any pretext. I can handle it, but you'll always have... And I'll never forget it, never... You'll always have an impure conscience when I'm acquitted by the court in this case. Because I just didn't do anything wrong. Here's what I'm gonna tell you: you should be ashamed of yourself in this case. Shame. And you're not too smart to smile, you're just proof that you don't understand your responsibilities. You think you're some kind of razor somebody can tell you. You can't get over it. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[This is some kind of personal attack.]] Your Marshal, would you allow me to... [[Voice from the room: scandal.]] Do you mind if I... [[Voice from the Chamber: This is the draftsman of the committee.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u420	But if you'll excuse me...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u421	Don't yell 'cause you're not at the national rally. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] This is my time. [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u422	Mr President, I would like to call you back to order. [[That's rude.]] (PL) Mr President, Mr President, And Mr Nitras...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u423	Thank you, Marshal. I have a right to judge...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u424	Mr President, I'm not done yet.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u425	Marshal, I believe I have the right to judge the committee's position. [[Voice from the room: You can't do that.]] Slowly.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u426	Mr President, allow me to finish.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u427	Of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u428	The Member has just presented the committee's report, not her own report on the request to deprive you of your immunity. [[Exactly, and you're not threatening yourself here.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u429	Yeah, and I didn't...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u430	Therefore, please focus on the proposal and not on the rapporteur's person.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u431	Your Marshal, if you don't mind...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u432	Mr President, I would like to remind you of what your speech should be about.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u433	Your marshal, and I'm telling you what I'm talking about. I am not talking about your Member as a representative of the committee. I'm talking about a committee that wasn't kind enough to listen to me on this case, which doesn't take its responsibilities seriously, which is under political instruction. It is your duty as members of the committee to examine the matter, to lean on the matter, to give the Member the right to speak, to give the Member, the representative whom he has the right to establish, the right to take part in the committee meeting - and not just to see what the party sign is, and how it is from the Platform, to vote in favour and, if it is from the PiS, to vote against. I'm entitled to that assessment. That's how this committee works. That's how this Sejm works. I'm not afraid of anything. I'm gonna stand trial, no problem at all. I'll prove my point. But I'll tell you what you've done with this House. And you made a mockery of this House. [[Applause]] It's a joke. You have made this House a place where the marshal has the right to punish the Member, to turn off the microphone, where the chairman of the committee has the right to give half a minute to speak, where the Member can be sentenced or his immunity removed, without giving him the right to speak on the committee without voting. You've made a toast out of this House. You'll have political responsibility for this one day. Exactly the same fate will happen to you someday. [[Applause]] I will tell you - it is a secret that has been made, but Members know it, we know that the whole list of requests to take away the immunities of our fellow Members is already in place. Ministers direct applications, maritime office, some companies of the Treasury. For the fact that Members write interpellations, you apply for immunity. Guys, think about what you're doing. We will have dozens of immunities received before the elections - because the Member wrote the interpellation, because the Member passed the street because the Member stood up for the woman. [[I'm sure.]] Your authority is so low that you go to such methods. Think about it. As you have been elected to this committee, as you have been elected Members to this committee, stand at the level of the task and be able to judge things because you have been called to something. You are not voting machines, and you should distinguish more things than party signs. This vote brings shame to you, and I have no intention of saving you this shame. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u434	I thank the Member for his speech. [[Do you remember Teresa Lubinska?]] [[Corrigendum.]] [[There's no such thing.]] No, there's no such thing. We will proceed to the vote in the voting block. [[Mr President, you remember Teresa Lubinska...]] Mrs... We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Employee Capital Plans (prints Nos 3410 and 3450). Mr Andrzej Noblechta will present a report. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u435	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the report of the Committee on Public Finances of yesterday's meeting, at which the government draft law on the amendment of the Act on Employee Capital Plans, print No 3410 was examined. The first reading of the government bill was held at yesterday's meeting. This project contains two articles. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 Nine amendments have been proposed. These changes have been discussed in detail. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice has tabled two substantive amendments and three editorial amendments. The High Committee has accepted these amendments. The basic amendment included in this draft law is the departure from the limitation of payments to PPK to 30 times the average remuneration, which will facilitate the creation of a system of registration of PPK participants and the settlement of payments. On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I recommend to the High House that this draft Print Act No 3450 be adopted together with the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u436	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Piotr Uściński will be the first to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u437	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice for print no. 3450. This is a report by the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Employee Capital Plans. Ladies and gentlemen! I'll start with a shortcut like this. What is PPK? In short, it may even be a second pension for Poles. The employer, the state and the employee themselves consist of savings collected in a special account, which the Pole will be able to use after 60 years of age. In this way, today's 20-year-olds, 30-year-olds, 40-year-olds, and even 50-year-olds after their career, will have additional money, from several hundred zlotys to several thousand zlotys a month, depending on how many years they saved and how much they earned. It is a solidarity social programme which strengthens the financial security of Polish families. Each Pole, I think, realizes that we are on the eve of a serious debate about the pension system. It was yesterday at the committee meeting that Minister Emilewicz also said. The demographic changes facing Poland, which are inevitable, will result in a dramatic change in the ratio of the number of workers who pay contributions to the number of pensioners in 20 and 30 years. So these employee capital plans will be a security for future pensioners, they will really be the safety of their old age. Ladies and gentlemen! This law was adopted as early as October and is now being amended so that it can be implemented even more efficiently. The government has noticed some problems. One of the problems, the main problem that this law resolves, is the matter of 30 times the average salary, such a limitation which is in the PPK and which is de facto unnecessary and only hinders the implementation of this law. So this will be eliminated, and this 30 times the base of the PPK will be abolished. There's also a few minor changes. The catalogue of persons employed within the meaning of the PPK Act is extended to persons who are on parental leave or who are receiving maternity benefits. It is possible to use a mechanical signature to call on the employer to conclude a PPK management agreement. Additional opportunities to inform PPK participants are introduced by providing them with access to the IT system of the financial institution. PPK accounts are excluded from the obligation to identify and report within the meaning of the Tax Information Exchange Act with other countries. In order to ensure the efficiency of the investments made, an additional condition is introduced for the remuneration of the PPK managers for the result achieved at a level of not less than 75% the highest rate of return under the funds of the same defined date. By changing the definition of a representative trade union organisation, the legal gap is removed and allows the operator of the PPK portal to spend funds from the initial fee and from the annual fee to the representative trade union organisations, at their request, for education and promotion of the PPK. Ladies and gentlemen! In the committee, as the rapporteur said, we accepted a number of amendments tabled by Members of the Law and Justice, but there were also important voices of entrepreneurs, business organisations in this committee. The Polish Bank Association has raised important reservations, important amendments, although they were not put to the vote in committee, the Federation of Polish Entrepreneurs, the Confederation of Leviathan. We leaned over these proposals and actually go out to the entrepreneurs. And they did their job very well, they read the bill, they read it, and they pointed out what else could be improved. And we, in front of entrepreneurs, business organizations, have prepared a few amendments to the bill that I am putting on your marshal's hands right now. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u438	Thank you very much. I would like to invite Mrs Izabela Leszczyna, the Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u439	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! There are two reasons for the Act on Employee Capital Plans. Unfortunately, none of them have anything to do with the concern for the quality of life of future pensioners, the economic security of future pensioners. Because if the PiS government really cared about the safety of pensioners, it wouldn't destroy the general pension system. Meanwhile, the PiS government destroyed the general pension system and exposed future pensioners to starvation pensions. [[And you think they should work until they die, right? Guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, ……]] If you're not interested in the quality of life of pensioners and their economic security, then what exactly is the Act on Employee Capital Plans for? Because PiS wants to throw a lifeline to the capital market, which is in a deep crisis. In a deep crisis. As bad a year as 2018 on the Stock Exchange was not in the history of this stock exchange. Why is this crisis where it came from? Trust is the basis of the financial market. However, in a country ruled by the PiS, you can't even trust an overseer. The chairman of the Financial Supervision Committee for two years was a man who today has a corrupt charge. We all heard tapes that weren't jammed by the noise, and a corruption proposal made to one of the investors. How to trust the capital market when toxic bonds for PLN 2,300 million were sold under KNF's supervision? Bonds that everyone always knew about, and it's a famous proverb: if you want to eat well, buy stocks, if you want to sleep well, buy bonds. In a country ruled by the PiS, even this famous saying has lost its meaning, because even those who buy bonds are not safe. How can you have confidence in the capital market if the big players on the Stock Exchange are companies of the Treasury in which the presidents change as in kaleidoscope, and in addition on the worse and less competent? So they figured they'd turn a new stream of money into this crisis-stricken capital market. I'll give you some good advice. If you don't want people to take you out on wheelbarrows one day, back off your proposal. Maybe they won't get you out in time or you'll lose the election in the fall. But remember, first, sir, trust must be restored. Investors need to regain confidence in financial supervision, i.e. to the supervisory committee, to a parliament that is a law - not like today, when you want to change the Penal Code within a few hours - finally to the prosecutor's office, who has been interrogating a fraud businessman for weeks and not a fraud. How do you want to create a financial market in this situation? And the second reason for introducing employee capital plans is that you are desperately looking for money to implement the sick ideas of Prime Minister Morawiecki, ideas that everyone knows about, and certainly private investors, that they are not profitable, because there is no reason to invest in the Polish electric car, even in the ferry, because the keel has already rusted or in the Central Communication Port. Answer your own question. If these were any good ideas, I think the investors would be pulling their doors and windows at you. None of this is happening, which is why you have to take money from Poles, telling them it's for retirement savings, and meanwhile you're going to finance it... [[It's voluntary.]] ...through the PFR, which is to become such a party hat over something that you're about to set up, and what you want to call a system of development institutions. In the bill, which we are about to process, you have already written down that whatever PFR wants to spend money on, the Treasury is going to give 100% guarantees. And that's why you need the money. And already what he said that we are facing the need to discuss the solidarity system - said the Minister yesterday - and at the same time that in the second sentence you are putting up with 30 times, means that you are cheating Poles, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That is why we are proposing an amendment which considers that 30 times is to apply in accordance with this law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u440	Thank you. And I invite you to address Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u441	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'll admit that I disbelieve in the debate. I'll start with the fact that I was born in 1986 and I'm from today's generation of 30-year-olds. He spoke about the fact that today's generation of 20-, 30-, 40-year-olds thanks to the great idea of employee capital plans has a chance or may have a chance - keywords: may have a chance - for a second pension. Ladies and gentlemen! Although I was born in 1986 and in 1999 I was 13 years old, I remember that the same thing was said when the OFE was created, that this is a chance for a second pension, for a German pension in Poland. It ended up with half of the OFE money taking the PO, the other half of the OFE money lurking around with the PiS. That's what it looks like. So that dreams of second retirement or German retirement were ruined. So I wonder if you really have Poles for such fools that they will believe again. [[You mean who?]] Who are you? Do you think the Poles will fall for it again? [[Game in the O.R.]] Because, yeah, you're saying... [[But we're doing this fair and square.]] Wait a minute. Relax. I didn't interrupt. Your Marshal, please remind your fellow Members, because I have not interrupted, and I hear there is already a sound in the courtroom. I'm talking about specific things, right? With OFE, it was one big scam. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] You've decided to walk away from this... [[Exactly.]] ...and create a new scam in the form of employee capital plans. [[That's not true.]] What's not true, gentlemen? There's one more thing I'm gonna say... [[Voice from the room: After all, this is voluntary.]] Yeah, voluntary... ...about today's generation of 20-, 30-, 40-year-olds. Do you know how much money these people make in Poland? The median income for last year, according to PITs, is 25,000. zł. It comes out a little over 2,000. PLN per month. If someone makes $2,000. What's he gonna put away for this pension a month? Of what? You want the kids to take their mouths off? And why someone makes $2,000. zł a month, working hard from morning to evening? Why do people make so little money? What's the minimum ZUS now? $1,300? That's the reality. Poles work from morning till evening, pay high taxes, and you gmerates - some new plans, new concepts, visions, drones, electric cars, planes. Come down, ladies and gentlemen, down on the ground. If we continue in such a system that Poles will have to work hard and you will outline some hope that in 20 or 40 years, perhaps if you retire... I repeat for the third time: I was born in 1986 and I know that my generation and I will not get any retirement because this system is simply a dead body, a system that you are powdering, nurturing. In fact, this bill is a kind of wire, a wire, which you're trying to put together two October plates because they're bouncing. All this is, in my opinion, a pretense, creating appearances that we do, that we work, that we fix. And the most pathetic thing about all of this is that a lot of our citizens are fooled by these kinds of games. And it hurts me. And it hurts me that a lot of people fall for it, that they believe in your assurances that it's better that it's 20 or 40 years from now that they might have a second pension. No, you won't have a second pension, you won't have a first pension. This is reality and we need to seriously consider changing the pension system in Poland at all. One thing I've just been told, I have to agree with. In fact, the PPK Act was supposed to save the Polish capital market, a market that is simply slaughtered, to put it directly. What about the Polish capital market? Like Belka's tax. Poles have cash, they have resources to invest money. They barely make profits, and the state, when any profit comes, already wants to take 20%. Where's the profitability here? Ladies and gentlemen! Please consider, if you can afford such a reflection at all, a profound change in the approach to the capital market, to the insurance system. And if you're ready for this debate, let's sit down and talk. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u442	Thank you. [[It is necessary to attend committee meetings, sir.]] [[Yeah, I was.]] Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, a club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u443	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I will present my position on the report of the Committee on Public Finances on the government draft law amending the Act on Employee Capital Plans. The project amends the Act of 4 October 2018 on Employee Capital Plans. It's only been a few months, the law hasn't practically been in place yet, and there's already been proposals for change. Changes are proposed by the author of the bill, the government. In addition, Members of the governing party shall make amendments. The necessary changes are reported by the Polish Bank Association, the Employers of Poland, the Confederation of Leviathan. Today I have the dubious pleasure of reminding our initial assessment of the PPK project. In addition to the extremely controversial provisions on the substantive side, I pointed out that the bill was a comprehensive document, written in a vague, complicated way. Despite the numerous substantive, editorial and legislative amendments, it already gave great opportunities for different interpretations. And that's what happened. After a few months we improve this and probably this correction is not in the final stage today. The changes proposed by the government in the project we are currently debating include: abolishing the limit of 30 times the deposit base in employee capital plans, extending the catalogue of persons entitled to PPK to persons on parental or maternity leave, as well as several organisational or technical proposals. At the first reading of the project, two new amendments were tabled at the meeting of the Finance Committee yesterday, including, inter alia, reduction of the payment limit for PPK accounts in a given calendar year to the equivalent of PLN 50 000. U.S. dollars. Neither the amendments proposed by the Government nor those tabled by Members of the Law and Justice change the nature of the Act on Employee Capital Plans. The Act still raises huge doubts about the huge risk to the participants in the employee capital plans themselves. The biggest burden on the increase in operating costs concerns employers, entrepreneurs, the socio-economic group which determines the position of our economy, the economic development of our country. Recalling the provisions of this basic law, I would like to say that the accumulated capital should come from voluntary employee contributions. This is the first part. The question is whether this will be possible under conditions generally relating to low wages of Poles. Would it not be so that an employee, even expressing his desire to save money, would not ask his employer to increase his salary. This seems to be the natural behavior of almost every employee. As a result, the first part of the contribution will actually be at the expense of the employer. The second part of the contribution under the Act is to come directly from the employer. There's no doubt about that. The third part of the contribution in the form of a welcome payment and an annual payment will come from the Labour Fund, i.e. also from the funds from employers. This law is almost entirely another burden on employers, entrepreneurs, and the changes we are currently making in the new project we are debating do not improve the situation of entrepreneurs or guarantee a good saving for workers. It's just that the proposed changes don't correct the wrong bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u444	Thank you. Ms Paulina Hennig-Kloska will speak on behalf of the club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u445	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, During the process of the original PPK Act, I said that unfortunately you did not take advantage of the opportunity to create a good capital pillar of our pension system. Unfortunately, this amendment will not change that. On the contrary, the changes expected by the market or citizens have not been recorded here, while the ones that are controversial have been written down. First of all, this amendment seems to be a propaganda of success. You can already see that you have concerns about how many people will remain in the PPK, so you want to artificially improve numbers by writing down women on parental leave and receiving maternity benefits, i.e. My parents. In fact, it is an artificial increase in the number of persons participating in the PPK, because the maternity allowance is not a remuneration within the meaning of the Act on PPK. No deposits will be charged there, so it will be an empty account. Unfortunately, such a woman will not be able to participate in any discussion about what TFI will be enrolled in her PPK, whether by trade unions or directly by talking to her employer. A little of that, most of them are not interested in their professional life at the time, they are focused on something completely different, they will rather be stuck in it, so, as I said, the artificial conquest of completely empty statistics has, I believe, shown the great success of the government. The second very controversial change is the elimination of 30 times the average monthly salary in the economy, i.e. the upper ceiling to which the PPK will be charged. For two reasons, actually out of three, it's controversial. First of all, you didn't even count the costs well on the employers' side. They may in some cases increase dramatically. These costs are already controversial. Recently, we have had the opportunity to observe this in the committee meeting when discussing whether tenders between the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways and executives, different tasks for the general management will be renegotiated on the basis of the increase in costs of the PPK, which is imposed on employers, because you have not given enough time for private employers to enter this programme, and the state administration will because you enter later. If this time of entry were longer, employers would have more time to prepare with budgets when it comes to these additional costs, e.g. with employees involved in such projects, which have this budget quite sharply calculated, often at lower profitability. The second reason is also the failure to calculate the costs for the state budget, because the increase in PPK contributions will result in a reduction in the amount of money paid to the State budget due to taxes. Nor did you define this in the impact assessments of the regulation, which is scandalous because the government should present such effects of the regulation. And the third point, I think the key... I think that no one in this room has any doubt that this liquidation of 30 times is a run-in before the liquidation of 30 times the ZUS contributions, hence these changes. My concern after yesterday's committee meeting is that you will first eliminate 30 times, start charging from those most earning citizens huge, horrendously high contributions to the Social Security Office, and then you will say: but we must introduce a solidarity system, and therefore the citizens' pension is 1500 PLN, because the Social Security Office will not afford to pay these huge chimney pensions. There is, of course, more controversy due to the fact that you are removing for 2 years the commission for profits generated under the PPK, and you are leaving 25% for trade unions. contributions paid by financial institutions to enable them to drive, promote themselves or PPK at various trade fairs from the money of citizens indirectly paid by financial institutions. For this reason, among other things, I asked for a tour of the head of the PPK portal to London at the work fair last weekend, and I asked how much [[♪ The bell ♪]] this trip cost - until now I have not found out - and whether this is how citizens' money will actually be wasted as part of their employees' capital plans. We did not support the original bill because, as I said, we did not support many controversial provisions that politicise this whole project and quite strongly nationalising citizens' money. This amendment is not going in our desired direction, so it is likely that the Modern Club will not support this amendment either. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u446	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. As no one else is on the list, I'm closing this list. The first question will be asked by Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u447	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask you about the following question, namely the new form of remuneration of the employee plan manager. Is it not the simplest solution to pay only as a specified maximum percentage of profit? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u448	Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform - The Civic Coalition will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u449	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Since capital plans are such a good offer for entrepreneurs and especially for future pensioners, why is this amendment clearly deterring entrepreneurs or employers from creating occupational pension schemes? Why do I say he's discouraged? What else is not discouraged by introducing additional obligations on employers who are currently conducting occupational pension schemes, the obligation to make statements on the conduct and the amount of the basic contribution charged and paid in this revision? The result is only an increase in number. [[♪ The bell ♪]] emerging occupational pension schemes. So something's wrong here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u450	Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u451	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Well, OFE, 1997. We remember what a blessing that would be. AWS introduced this, some of your fellow Members were here in this Chamber and voted in favour. The Polish People's Party did not support these fantasy proposals and neither today. There is no vision of the functioning of the social security system in Poland, which will be in the future, because it is such a patching of the hole. Today, on one of the television stations, I heard such shocking news that at the moment ten workers are working on two pensioners, but in 50 years two workers will be working on eight pensioners. So my question is, where's the pension money coming from? I mean, we don't have that money on the market today. We have it written down, of course, but it's virtual money. Someone's gonna have to put it down. Do you have a country? [[♪ The bell ♪]] - and the fourth year you are already in charge - do you have any idea of functioning in the future, not only today, not only next year, but in the future, of the social security system in Poland? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u452	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Noblechta will ask the last question at this point. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u453	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! During the debate, during the club speeches we heard a number of criticisms about the PPK system. We're reaching into the open pension fund system. I would like to say that the PPK system is a voluntary tool for collecting private savings in individual savings accounts. It is completely separate from the general insurance system where the limit applies. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not something new on the European market, which is why I am asking the Minister: Are there examples of other countries of the European Union in which such a system has been introduced... [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Not like this.]] ...please don't disturb - and it works effectively, does it work? And then there's the second question. Amendment tabled [[♪ The bell ♪]] on the restoration of the 30-fold limit. Will this restoration make it difficult to register and register payments?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u454	This question and earlier questions will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology, Mr Marek Niebżak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u455	Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo! Let me say this: first of all, let me answer these questions that fall within the scope of the project, and not the voices or questions that have emerged here, and which are sometimes even very far beyond the scope of the project. I think that when discussing PPK we should remember about the problem that we have had in Poland for years. This is the problem of low Poles' tendency to save. Looking at the real rate of voluntary savings in the European Union, we are probably the third or fourth country from the end. So we need actions that motivate people to save money. It's about saving money for retirement, but it's about saving money at all. It is a problem that has been in Poland for years and I think it has many different causes. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: And this project will not change that.]] [[I'd say it will.]] This project creates a voluntary system from an employee's perspective and I think it's worth remembering that. On an opt-out basis, but voluntary. And through this prism, we should also look at different voices concerning, for example, the limit of thirty times or a few other issues. And now, in more detail. Practically in every country or in most countries of the European Union there are similar models to support retirement savings. Specifically, our model is modelled on the British model, which has been operating there for almost 10 years. There, participation in this model is 84%. It's a very high level. This shows that this model works well in many countries. There was also a question about the shape of the salary. Here it's 0.5% of the assets. It is also a matter of ensuring that management entities, having certain operating costs, are able, if any, to create such a business plan, i.e. Just plan your operation, plan your budgets. In the context of a few other voices that have been cast here, I would say that we estimate this at about 7 times smaller than those who managed funds in the OFE. As for the question that has also been raised here, concerning, say, the PPK and the PPE. The point was that there are new information obligations here that might discourage them. It seems to me, however, that this is an unauthorized thesis, because this information obligation is necessary. If we have a PPK, which from the perspective of employers will be mandatory, excluding those who have PPE at a certain level of participation, then it is simply necessary to draw information from the market, whether it actually operates there and whether it operates at an appropriate level. And that's it. I do not see this effect in the form of discouragement, which the Member was afraid of. On the contrary, if someone has a well-developed PPE, they will be glad to let you know because they will not have to operate on PPK. As I said at the beginning, given that... I had the impression that very many voices were referring to the very essence of the PPK, and this has already been decided in this House, among others. at the moment when this main act was passed. Now we are only dealing with a point-by-point amendment to facilitate the implementation of the legislation. That is why I feel that I have the right to limit my answer only to questions within the scope of the project that I had the pleasure of presenting today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u456	Thank you very much. I know that the rapporteur wants to speak, but at noon. The 19th Convention is convened, therefore, if this lasts two or three minutes, please, if it lasts longer... [[Very briefly.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u457	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I wanted to thank all the clubs who were actively involved in this project very briefly after all. We've been working on this project for over two hours. As the Minister said, it is not the introduction of a new law, it is the amendment of it. On the basis of the experience of a few months we have made some adjustments, listening to the social voice - the Confederation of Leviathan, the Association of Polish Employers. We are making changes to make life easier for the shareholders of this programme. The program is safe. It's not our phenomenon, it's invented here. We are modeling on the experiences of other countries, and the Minister reminded us. This is a safe program. The owners of these funds are employees who participate in this programme so that you can trust us. Tomorrow at the committee meeting, I think, we will adopt these amendments to make the programme more effective. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u458	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm calling a 10-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 min. 58 hrs. 19 min 23]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 13. of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on National Defence on the governmental bill amending the Act on the Polish Space Agency and the Act on the departments of government administration (prints No. 3086 and 3452). Mr Tadeusz Dziuba will present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u459	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The first reading of the amendment of the Act on the Polish Space Agency and the Act on the Departments of Government Administration took place at a meeting of the Joint Commission: National Defence and Economy and Development. Some important amendments have been made by Members of the Government's proposal. Below I will discuss the government project with these amendments. Currently the Polish Space Agency is supervised by the Prime Minister. This is not a solution found in countries belonging to the European Space Agency. In these countries, national space agencies or their counterparts are subject to ministers responsible for space policy. Among them are the ministers of the economy. This is the solution adopted in the project under discussion. Of course, in all these countries - similarly in Poland - agencies or their counterparts carry out tasks for the needs of many resorts, not only those managed by the supervising minister. It is worth recalling that in Poland the Minister responsible for economic affairs is responsible for the implementation of the space programme and for the implementation of international agreements related to Poland's accession to the European Space Agency. The scope of tasks of the Polish Space Agency has been clarified. In line with the new wording, this agency will support the space industry, research, the use of space, the development of space techniques, including satellite engineering, and the exploitation of research and its results for commercial, economic, defence, state security and, of course, scientific purposes. It is also obliged to cooperate with numerous national authorities and international organisations. On the other hand, the shaping of Polish space policy and the representation of the Polish economic interest in the international arena were attributed to the minister responsible for economic affairs, which reflects the change provided for in the Law on the Departments of Government Administration. State defence and security tasks have been extended to analyse threats in space and to work on rocket technologies. A new regulation is the introduction of the possibility for the Agency to provide non-financial support, including natural persons, entrepreneurs and social partners, but within specific areas, namely training, advice, participation in trade fairs and business missions, conferences, seminars or workshops. The project provides for new regulations regarding the appointment and dismissal of the President of the Polish Space Agency. Among them, we must mention - introduced by Members - a new basis for appointing the President, namely having the authority to guarantee the proper performance of the tasks. An identical premise was introduced for the vice-presidents of the agency. Provisions concerning the appointment and dismissal of directors of field branches and organisational cells of the Agency have been transferred to the Act. The provisions concerning the PAK Council have also been further detailed, inter alia. strengthening its powers. Although the revenues of the Polish Space Agency indicated in the current Act are listed for example, and therefore do not constitute a closed list, it was decided to supplement this list by listing directly revenues from commercialisation of results of implementations and implemented projects. The proposal to transfer the seat of the Polish Space Agency to the capital of Poland has not been accepted by the Members, thus the solution remains, i.e. the seat remains in Gdansk. In addition, as is usual, the project introduces changes in order of an editorial nature. The Sejm committees refer to the adoption of the draft law in a version by those committees submitted in print No 3452. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u460	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I invite Mr Andrzej Smirnow to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u461	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Polish Space Agency Act was introduced in 2014. Since then, there have been many changes. First of all, space technology has developed, new economic operators have been created, and in 2017 the Polish Space Strategy was adopted. It is therefore necessary to organise and increase the Agency's activities and, based on these four years of operational experience, to introduce organisational changes as well. The draft amendment of the law provides for: Firstly, the organisation and clarification of the tasks of the Agency, in particular as regards the preparation and coordination of the implementation of the National Space Programme within the framework of the Polish Space Strategy adopted by the Council of Ministers. Secondly, to provide expert support and technological knowledge to other public administrations involved in space activities. Thirdly, changes are made to improve the organisation of the Polish Space Agency and ensure the necessary coordination and cooperation between all entities implementing the National Space Programme. Finally, fourthly - Mr Dziuba has already said a lot about this - adapting the issue of agency supervision to the solutions adopted in other European countries, especially in practically all Member States of the European Space Agency. There, individual countries are represented by ministries, above all, ministries of the economy and science. In fact, almost all countries are represented by such ministries, which is why the law provides that the Polish Space Agency will be supervised by a minister responsible for economic affairs. This is the Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology. This solution works in many countries, among others. in Germany, Spain, the Netherlands, France, Luxembourg or Estonia. The Minister responsible for economic affairs is also responsible, as the rapporteur mentioned, for the implementation of the Polish space strategy. The Polish Space Agency, under the supervision of the Minister for Economic Affairs, will of course cooperate with many resorts, in particular with the Ministry of National Defence. Here, it changes greatly whether the agency's activities are actually expanding. It's about observing the surface of the earth, observing space, hazard analysis, or the rocket technology already mentioned. I believe that the agency will, of course, cooperate with the Minister of Science and Higher Education, who is also responsible for the implementation of the Polish space programme. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice fully supports the amendment of the law and will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u462	Thank you, sir. I invite Mrs Agnieszka Pomaska, who will present her position on behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u463	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, As already mentioned here, in September 2014 the Sejm decided to establish the Polish Space Agency. It was a natural consequence of Poland's joining the European Space Agency and taking an active part in this field. Members decided then, among other things. that the agency's seat will not be in the capital, but in Gdansk. In this way, the general need for decentralisation was wanted to be emphasised and this was the case. The result of the agency was, among others, the creation of the agency. a new inter-university course of studies: space and satellite technologies, as well as the emergence of many new companies within the space industry. Unfortunately, the arrival of the PiS government caused a mess in the Polish Space Agency. Imagine that four years have passed and there is still no new president of the Polish Space Agency. I will remind you, because maybe not everyone with your knowledge, although the case was also described in the media, that one of the people who was the president of the Polish Space Agency was Colonel. Suszyński. The Court of First Instance later ruled that he had appointed himself President of the Agency in an unlawful manner. He was assisted by the then Minister of National Defence, Minister Macierewicz. This is the first question about the mess that came in there. You put together a contest for the president, and in the meantime, this bill went to the Sejm. It reduces the requirements for a candidate to be president of this agency. I ask Minister Emilewicz, who is to supervise the Polish Space Agency from now on, or her representative: Is this really a competition for the president of the agency, or does the Minister already have his favorite, and therefore the requirements for candidates for this position are being lowered? The Act also assumes that the relations of employees of the Polish Space Agency will cease after 3 months from the date of its entry into force. I'd like to ask, what's the point of cleaning? Is it so that more Misiewiczs are introduced to the Polish Space Agency, like many other institutions under the rule of the PiS? Is that why you're changing? I don't think that's what the law in the High House should do. [[It's not like there's any science in there that you're telling me.]] The Polish Space Agency has so far been subject to the Prime Minister. It was not under Prime Minister Szydło's control, it was not under Prime Minister Morawiecki's control. Should the lack of organisational capacity make it necessary to amend the law? I don't think so. Is it not so that the amendment of the law which assumes that the PAK will be subject to the Minister of Economy from now on is not really to cover the personal cleansings I was talking about? By the way, I recommend you to familiarize yourself with one of the judgments of the labour court, which ruled that employees, and precisely one of the employees of the Polish Space Agency, had been released illegally. I understand that this bill is supposed to make dismissal legal, and that inserting yours will be done in accordance with the law. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to revisit the agency's headquarters. The seat of the Polish Space Agency by law has always been in Gdansk, and yesterday or the day before yesterday one of the members of the Polish Space Agency announced... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Not always, Madame, you are mistaken. First it was Warsaw, and Senator Wittbrodt changed to Gdansk.]] But the signed and valid law assumed that the agency's seat was in Gdansk. So I have a heartfelt request to the members of the PiS that they do not repel their success now, [[♪ The bell ♪]] because the seat was to be moved to Warsaw at the request of the PiS government. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I will say that this bill is another example of the fact that the PiS is first spoiling something, making a mess, and then legally trying to sort it out. This isn't the way. Hence our amendments and the motion to reject this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo! The seat was always in Gdansk.]] [[Don't lie to me!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u464	Mr... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Madame, I will not use this bell many times, but I ask you to remain calm. If you want to ask a question or come forward, please sign up. There's no need to comment like that. Mr Paweł Skutecki from the Kukiz club15 will present his position on behalf of this club. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u465	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Let's remember the facts. The Polish Space Agency was supposed to be something unique, an institution implementing our aspirations not only regarding the world's leading states in the field of exploration of the universe, but also more ground-based. It was supposed to be the heart of a dynamically growing space industry. In this respect, we have companies in our categories, narrow, specialized to the limits of possibilities, the best in the world. I'm just saying, the best in the world. It was meant to be. What do we got? We've got a party activists' lockdown. The problem is that the party from a different broadcast than the current one. What's the government doing now? He does not want to heal this institution, but to replace one with another, aliens as his own, that's all. Let's start with the fact that everything in this project seems to be written under specific people, as someone in this speaker said. [[Applause]] It causes a true festival of ridiculousness, illogicality, ordinary lack of decency. Once again - I will remind you shyly recently adopted by this Sejm law on the Agency for Medical Research - the government proposes to elect the president of the Agency instead of betting on a competition in which he could, at least theoretically, win the best candidate instead of a party nomination. As far as the Medical Research Agency is concerned, the government has withdrawn. I hope that's how it's gonna be here. Attention, ladies and gentlemen, deserves the observation of the Polish Academy of Sciences, which in its opinion on the project, wrote, quote: With the total number of agency directors - president, vice presidents, directors of branches and organizational cells - planned for 2019, it will constitute as much as 1/3 of all employees. Now do you understand why these changes? The government wanted to move the seat of the agency to Warsaw because, as you can see, the idea of decentralisation and sustainable development has already gone to lamus. [[It's a science facility.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You can't do that. We really need to make some decisions, you guys have to make some decisions, figure out which way you're going, because right now you're running from wall to wall. But the most interesting, saddest and most expressive is the art. 4. I quote again: Relations with persons employed on the date of entry into force of the Act in the Agency shall expire 3 months after the date of entry into force of the Act if they are not offered new working conditions or wages for a further period before that date or, if new working conditions or wages are not adopted, within one month of the date on which they are proposed. Ladies and gentlemen! Let's face it, it's not a bill, it's a setup, a cleaning agency. Let's remember what is in the background of the Polish Space Agency, because it's not just some piece of work that doesn't matter. This is, bagatela, 120 million PLN per year of Polish contribution to the European Space Agency. This money could and should go back to Polish companies from the space industry, but you need to want That's what you have to do. You have to be able to do it. You can't do that, and this project isn't gonna change that. The Agency, according to the project, is to provide, again, non-financial support for training, advice, participation in fairs, business missions and other events. Let's say this with a really clear text: The Polish Space Agency, during your governments, is about to become some kind of social and business party, not a Polish Space Agency, which was called for completely different purposes. We're not authorized to do that. The Kukiz Club15 will vote against this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u466	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak from the club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats will speak on behalf of this club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u467	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This law is a solution to the space agency, with which such high hopes were linked in 2014. After all, this was supposed to be our access to international achievements when it comes to these most advanced, modern technologies. There's nothing left of it. The president is fired, the crew is fired, we have no requirements for the president. We don't have any expectations. Anyone with a master's degree or an equivalent degree can be as long as he has a good reputation - such are the expectations for today. It's a typical personnel bill. I recall perfectly this discussion and how long it was discussed when this agency was created. Many circles were involved and the discussion was substantive. We expected that there would be professionals there who would really meet these expectations. What are we dealing with today? After this bill has been passed, we'll barely have a space agency. As for the seat - such a play, because this is typically a poker game... We defended Gdansk, we will write that it will be in Warsaw, and then we defended Gdansk, it is ridiculous to make it serious. On the other hand, there has been a discussion from the outset about submission, a minister of the economy or another resort. It was subject to the Prime Minister's orders at the time. All this time I thought, and my club should also be subject to the minister of the economy, the one closest to the things that the space agency is discussing. Given the whole of this law, except for one fragment, the last part I said about submission, we cannot support it, because we would therefore sign up for the liquidation of the agency. And what you're gonna open up, you're gonna know by other examples. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u468	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u469	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I agree with you that this is the continuation of the previous agenda. In order to convert the cooperative into a commercial law company, it must first be closed, deleted and then created a new one, because we have eliminated the possibility of a smooth transition. Here it is similar, because if all employees are fired, the situation may be similar. I'm going back to the bill. I am pleased to present the position of the club Modern about the draft law from print No. 3086 and from print No. 3452, i.e. the report of the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Economics and Development, about the government draft law on the amendment of the law on the Polish Space Agency and the law on the departments of government administration. The purpose of the Act is, as indicated in the explanatory memorandum, ordering, clarifying the scope of tasks of the Polish Space Agency as an executive agency to provide the necessary expert support and technological knowledge to other organisations and public administrations involved in space activities, adapting supervision of the Polish Space Agency to solutions such as in other European countries - in fact there is virtually no situation in which supervision of this agency is exercised by the Prime Minister, introducing improvements in the organization of the Polish Space Agency. Those were the purposes of this presentation. What can be said about this? It is good that we managed to restore the record that the agency's seat is in Gdansk. Those trips to Warsaw... The members of the PiS probably realized that it had nothing to do with the decentralisation of the state and to send various government agencies to other places, i.e. not only Warsaw. It's okay. It's okay. Let us hope that this will not be announced as the greatest success of this law. It's a good thing it was taken from KPRM. To be honest, Prime Minister Szydło's supervision was none, and I don't think KPRM officials had any idea what they were going to do with this agency. NIK's opinion, trouble closing and clearing the budget, monthly waiting for any action related to the election of the boss, all this shows what a mess it was at that time when it came to the agency. Will this bill change that? We'll see. Let's see how this continues to work. The Polish Space Agency is to provide non-financial support. Well, because right now we have a situation where private companies are actually opening up to the space industry. We've already had some success. Polish satellites of private companies land in orbit. It would be good to consider whether, in addition to substantive support, financial support should not be provided, since the state... Unfortunately, there is no such institution or know-how or start-ups that can actually do something good. How about helping those who have an idea? Here we have a return to tradition. Law and Justice treats another law as a staff law. All employees who do not get a job again 3 months after the entry into force of the Act lose their jobs and it is not known how they will be able to get a job again. [[Small, small.]] We will see what opportunities will be, because so far there have been very serious problems finding the right person to be president. We know these criteria have been lowered, and I think it's going to be a little easier now. The Modern Club will consider when voting on the amendments whether it will support this law. We will see if these amendments can improve this bill. So that the decision will be made after the vote on the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u470	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Time - 1 minute. Ms Bożena Kamińska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition begins. As no one else volunteered, I'm closing the list of questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u471	Thank you very much, Marshal. I wanted to point out that space is, of course, the key to national defence, and since 2013. The Ministry of National Defence cannot launch a program concerning the construction of an optoelectronic satellite, which would be the flywheel of the Polish space industry sector. In return, plans for the construction of the Polish tank are announced, which will build a consortium of more than 20 PGZ companies, despite the fact that several recent armored projects were stuck shortly after they started. Is that the right direction? Why is there no record of the Agency's budget for projects in this draft law? Is this supposed to be the PR agency and tours around the world again, because all we have is a record of supporting research? Who will carry out this research? Another very important issue is the main achievements of the agency, which has been in place since 2014. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Over the years, we spend 10 million every year on the agency, mainly on salaries and travel abroad. [[Voice from the room: Time, time.]] Do we also remember that 1 euro, which we invest in space, returns to the economy 4.5 times? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u472	Thank you. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u473	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you how in the Minister's opinion the proposed changes will accelerate the implementation of the most important task, as it seems, facing Polish space technology actors. It is about acquiring sovereign possibilities for Poland to maintain advanced systems of situational awareness in its own territory and areas important for the security of the Polish state. Thank you. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u474	Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Club Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u475	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act on the Polish Space Agency, on which we are proceeding, has caused a series of controversy from the beginning. The proposed organisational structure raises the greatest concern. Does a agency that employs dozens of people necessarily have separate departments? Following these changes in employment of 50 people, the total number of agency managers would represent as much as 1/3 of all employees, without any substantial cells being envisaged. The scientific community rightly notes that the competence requirements for managerial positions are too low, and the President of the Polish Space Agency himself should be appointed by means of a competition, not by means of recruitment. Looks like more jobs for the Pisiewics are being created again. Unfortunately, it is. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u476	Mr Michał Jach, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u477	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister, I have two questions for you. First, Minister: Is it true that the location, location of the Polish Space Agency in the structures of the state caused ambiguity of competence of individual state institutions and this sometimes led to a conflict of competence between resorts? And the second question about the election of the president of the agency. Just now, one of the Members here accused that the purpose of changing the requirements for the President of the Agency is to choose the new President according to the rules. Whether the current competition for the position of President is conducted according to the old rules or will be conducted according to the new rules, as shown, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Isn't it possible for you to read the laws? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u478	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u479	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! A few questions. The Polish Space Agency is an entity that, by nature, balances between the world of science and the world of business. With such advanced technologies as those mentioned in the context of the space industry, it can't be any different, it has to be between these two worlds, the world of science and the business world. What really is the reason for removing the agency from the Prime Minister's supervision, which, on the one hand, resulted in huge nobility and, on the other hand, strikes a balance between these two worlds, science and business? Now you can get the impression that the Polish Space Agency will have the task of primarily supporting this world of entrepreneurship, space business. What is the real reason for these changes? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u480	Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u481	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We had certain hopes about this institution. As we all know, such a space agency is needed in our country for security. But there are some doubts, which is why I have the following questions. What is wrong with the management of the Polish Space Agency and what will change the amendment by lowering the requirements regarding the candidate for the position of its President? Why do the presidents of the Polish Space Agency change so often? Isn't the fact that passive, mediocre, but faithful doesn't work? What is the reason that the Supreme Audit Chamber regularly gives negative opinions on the implementation of the budget of the Polish Space Agency? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u482	Mrs Maria Margaret Janyska. You're welcome. The Civic Platform, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u483	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! After analyzing the project, after analyzing the value of the amendments, but also the mode in which they were reported, only one fundamental question arises. What was the actual purpose of this regulation, this amendment? I see at least three. The first is to throw out the existing employees and hire their own. The second is to lower the requirements for the president of the agency, so as to hire his pre-emptive. And the third - open a stream of money, perhaps also for your own, on unclear principles. And here, Mr President, I must tell you that this is the non-financial support you were talking about was in print 3086. On the other hand, in the printing that we have in the report today, the term "non-financial" has been deleted. We only have support to be provided to entities upon request, please, not in competitions, not in analyses, but on request. I will also refer to whether Poland is to be resort or in Poland [[♪ The bell ♪]] the agreement between the various ministries. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u484	Thank you very much. Mr Czesław Mroczek, Civic Platform Club. [[Mr. Marshal, if you could at least finish your sentence, you would show a high culture of the legislative process and the proceedings.]] But this is the brutal reality of the Seym. [[You're brutal. Not reality. You're the only one who's violent, sir. And you're not alone.]] [[Voice from the courtroom: Mr. Marshal is brutal, not reality...]] By the way, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u485	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are discussing changes concerning the Polish Space Agency, but the agency is only one of the institutions of the Polish state, which deals with cosmic issues. Poland participates and invests significant resources within the European Space Agency, within the European Organisation for the Operation of Meteorological Satellites and in the European Union's space programmes. I expect that Polish payments for the last few years, for the last 5 years, will amount to approx. PLN 2 billion, while the return will be only 20%, approx. 400 million. The participation of Polish companies in these measures is only 10%. We should analyze the government's actions in this area, because this is outrageous. 10% the funds used that we're paying. We need to evaluate the government, not the Polish Space Agency. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u486	Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u487	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question: Does the Ministry predict that the agency will send someone into space? I think we'd find the candidates. It would be good if it wasn't just the gene. Hermaszewski was a cosmonaut in Poland. The PiS, because General Hermaszewski is not from your fairy tale, should actually achieve some success and send someone. If it's about the candidates, we'll give you our word, we'll help you find them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u488	Member of Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u489	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! The entire opposition has come to the conclusion that this is a personnel bill. You only replace your positions for the people who will be in charge of the space agency. I am interested, I think that Poles, too, whether you are able to increase the use of the paid contribution, which is 2 billion PLN, to more than 200 million at the staff bill. Why are you going to reach for new projects under the new financial perspective? What new technologies and what new benefits will we have? You're trying to prepare, change the management of the space agency. The Prime Minister surrendered. We can see he's resigned from surveillance. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u490	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on National Defence to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. [[Voice from the room: And yet...]] Minister? Half an hour, we've got time. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u491	Dear Marshal, Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the statements I have heard, also in the questions, there is a kind of inconsistency, because on the one hand you notice, as we do, the enormous potential in terms of the development of space policy, both in scientific and economic terms, and on the other hand you object in these statements to a law aimed at ordering the Polish Space Agency, ordering space policy in order to improve its effectiveness. However, I would like to encourage you to look with concern at space policy, so that this first intention prevails, because it is really in the interest of the Polish state, in the interest of the Polish economy, in the interest of Polish entrepreneurs and Polish scientists. There's been a few false statements here. I'd like to correct them. It is not true that there has been no president for years, who is not in charge. The previous president was a 100% president. Your responsibilities. In the event of resignation in accordance with the provisions of the Act, the incumbent was appointed and the competition was immediately distributed. And here we are going to the second false information you gave, the opposition state, of course, that the law does not provide for an open competition. The recruitment that is foreseen is open, competitive. Candidates are subject to high requirements. It is important not to lower the rank and authority of the President of the Polish Space Agency at the beginning, because a significant part of his duties will consist in representing Poland abroad. It would be good if it was our joint effort, and the government, and the parliament, to build the authority of this candidate. Higher education is required, 2-year management practice and 4-year work experience in the scientific, industrial or public administration sector, which is related to the scope of the Agency's tasks. And I would like to say, also confirm, because it also happened here, that the current competition has already been distributed and is a competition conducted based on the current wording of the law. Therefore, the argument that the Act was distributed to the High Sejm in order to influence the election of the next President is misplaced because the competition is being conducted and will be decided on the basis of the provisions of the Act currently in force. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as employees are concerned, it's clear. We raise the criteria, in general we establish criteria that will have to be met by every candidate for work at the Polish Space Agency. It wasn't there. That is why provisions have been introduced that govern these criteria for both employees and field directors, directors of the Agency. I think it is very important that we introduce criteria not only for the board of directors, but also for management and employees. That is why there is a need for transitional provisions that talk about those agreements that you mentioned here. As far as supervision is concerned, of course, this issue required some order. Indeed, there are no such cases in the European Space Agency that anywhere such agencies, national space agencies, are subject to either the Chancellor's offices or the President of the Council of Ministers, the Prime Minister. They are either ministers of the economy or ministers of science everywhere. I understand that at the time when the original records were being prepared, Prime Minister Donald Tusk wanted to control it personally, to have a personal impact on how this agency works, and that is contrary to the standards of the European Space Agency and inefficient. That is why the Minister responsible for economic affairs, as today responsible for innovation policy in Poland, for industrial policy, for industrial implementation policy 4.0, will coordinate this in cooperation, in full agreement with other resorts, because there is no innovation without the cooperation of the Minister of Economy with the Minister of Science, with the Minister of Digitization, Minister of Environment, Minister of Energy. So in this sense, it is nothing new here to coordinate the role of the Minister responsible for economic affairs. As it turns out, all other Member States of the European Space Agency have recognised that this is the best solution - either the Minister of Economy or the Minister of Science. As far as the seat is concerned, of course it is today - it must be said - that most of the employees of the Polish Space Agency work in Warsaw anyway. But there are arguments and pros and cons. We are open to these arguments. I thank those of you who have been involved in this debate very much. I'm happy to have many of our meetings. Parliamentarians, Members of the Committee decided to restore the seat of the Polish Space Agency in Gdańsk, to return. This is thanks to the involvement of your parliamentarians from Pomerania, headed by Mr Marcin Horała, local government officials, Mr Karol Rabenda, Councilman of the city of Gdansk, as well as scientific circles. And we listen to that voice. We listen and thank you so much for letting us continue our work. But the real issue of this seat is not a critical issue for this bill. Nor is it true that the Agency will not be able to provide financial support. In the end, these regulations which you have adopted at the last joint meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on National Defence clearly indicate that the agency will be able to provide support and financial and non-financial support, which is very important in this respect. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal! I would also kindly ask that Minister Skurkiewicz speak on behalf of the Government, on behalf of the Ministry of National Defence, because the theme of the Minister of National Defence is also very important here. Today we are working on this law as part of the full coordination of the activities of these three ministries: the Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology, the Minister of National Defence, the Minister of Science and Higher Education. And I cordially invite you to talk about Polish space policy from the perspective of the Polish state, not the current political divisions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u492	Thank you, Minister. And now the Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence, Mr. Wojciech Skurkiewicz. You're welcome, Minister. You promised three sentences.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u493	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Before I answer Mrs Kaminska's question, a little reflection and a little bit of history. Before me print No.702 of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of 2014, the bill which was directed by the Marshal of the Sejm Ewa Kopacz to the Senate, to the Marshal of the Senate of Bogdan Borusewicz, about the creation of a space agency, ladies and gentlemen. Act dated 25 July 2014 on the creation of a space agency, Chapter 1 of Article 1. 1 paragraph 4 - note, note: The seat of the agency is the capital city of Warsaw. And so it was... [[And was this bill signed by the president?]] ...directed, ladies and gentlemen, to the Senate. After an incredible, tavern battle in the Senate, among others. by Senators of Pomorskie Voivodeship, Senator Wittbrodt - it was his actions that caused this - with Donald Tusk's permission, because of course it stood in the forum of the highest party factors of the then ruling Civic Platform, it was decided that the agency would be in Gdansk. And we're holding on to it today. Thanks to the involvement of the Pomeranian Members of the Gdansk Law and Justice, this agency will continue to be located in Gdansk. [[Insolence.]] As for Mrs Kaminska's questions, ladies and gentlemen, today the military also uses imaging data, satellite data. Today the Polish army, the Polish army, has a signed agreement with the Italian party, which will be in force and will be in force until 2020, under which data from satellite imaging is transmitted for the purposes of the Polish army. Few of this, also the Polish army, the Polish army, the Ministry of National Defence in the plan of technical modernisation for the years 2017.2026 have written that it will be acquired for the needs of the Polish army, the Polish army satellite, which will be used for imaging recognition. This is set out in the technical modernisation plan by 2026. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of National Defence is also open to cooperation with companies, with entities that can boast of innovative, innovative, modern technologies in this area. And we also have and sign these funds. It is on average about PLN 1 billion to be used annually, provided that these funds will be used for innovations that will be related to the arms industry or even to the Polish army, the Polish army. So it's not like we're not doing anything about it. And we will certainly see such times that the Polish army, the Polish army, will have its satellite. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u494	Thank you very much. [[Corrigendum.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u495	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! I wanted to correct two informations. Let me start with the question that Minister Skurkiewicz raised. Finally, the Senate amendment was accepted by the Sejm and was not rejected. Thanks to this, the headquarters, as I said, was in Gdańsk from the beginning. I wasn't talking about the projects, I was just saying that the place was always in Gdansk. That's the first line. And the second thing is the question of requirements. Minister, until now, in order to be president of the agency, you had to have at least a doctor's degree and a six-year internship in the high technology industry. You've lowered those requirements a lot. Admit it, and tell me why. Thank you very much. [[And who's gonna be president.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Thank you for the offer, Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u496	Rapporteur for the committee Tadeusz Dziuba, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u497	Mr. Marshal! Just a little bit. Some Members of the opposition have rightly pointed out that the Polish Space Agency has so far had little efficiency. If that is the case, ladies and gentlemen, after these few years of experience, structural changes and staff changes must be made. And we should expect those who see it to support this law. This is the point of this law: improving the efficiency of the agencies through structural and personal changes. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Well, finally, it's true.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u498	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on National Defence to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm declaring a time-out. 8:30, unless they come early... [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 minutes 14 hours 20 min 49]] I'm reopening the session. The competent committees have submitted a report on the draft law on the Development Fund for public service bus services, print No 3461. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in this case the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, heard statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government's draft law on the Development Fund for public service bus services (prints Nos 3411 and 3461). I ask Mr Bogdan Rzońca to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u499	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, along with the team! Dear Parliamentarians! On behalf of the Joint Commission: Infrastructure and the Territorial Government and Regional Policy, I submit a report on the Government's draft law on the Development Fund for public service bus services, mother print No 3411, printing of report No 3361. The joint committees, after a long discussion, recommend further work on the project after long debates. At today's meeting, 15 minority proposals were tabled, and editorial and legislative amendments were tabled. I would like to thank all the Members of all the clubs very warmly for their genuinely substantive discussion. This law is expected by many communities in Poland and I hope, recommending on behalf of Law and Justice further work on the bill, that we meet the expectations of Poles, Poles who want to use public transport, and so far in many localities these people have not had such a possibility. Thank you very much for your work and I think that we should continue to proceed quickly and efficiently on the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u500	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Bogdan Rzonec, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u501	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! This bill is good for all local governments, because local governments have a problem with the so-called. performing its own tasks, it is public transport. This bill is very good for passengers, first of all I should say, for passengers. This bill is also very good for those who will take the funds that the state budget will allocate to the liquidation of the so-called. white spots, because it is known that carriers who will operate new lines, some of the funds that will go from the state budget to the operators, will also be used for better quality equipment, i.e., in short, car rolling stock. I therefore believe that this law was very much needed, very much needed and expected, and I hope that in the further legislative process everyone will bow to these ideas, and I think that we should adopt it as soon as possible at this session of the Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u502	Thank you very much. Mr Stanisław Żmijan, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u503	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Seym! After the debate at first reading and after work at the meeting of the joint committees, we generally agree on the diagnosis: Yes, in Poland we have a serious problem of communication exclusion. Unfortunately, I am sorry to say that with regard to the tools that are worthwhile and need to be dealt with, unfortunately, we are still different, we remain at our posts. We have tried, we have put forward the conclusions of the minorities that you spoke about during the joint committee meeting, but they have not found recognition of the government's parliamentary majority. I want to say that, of course, this is a step that solves problems to some extent, but it really solves them in part, because a large proportion of local governments, especially those that have already taken their own measures, will unfortunately not be able to apply, and that means that these local governments, instead of getting help, will be punished. It is not good that there is no recognition of the amendment concerning those who will carry out these services, namely public or private carriers, because annual contracts do not provide certainty on the market, in particular as regards investment in rolling stock, and rolling stock determines the safety of passengers. We also differ in the level of the deficit, which is much larger. At this point in time, I would like to say that there is no doubt that in the short term the experience resulting from the application of this law will have to be revised. I hope that we will then do it fully and effectively. One sentence at the end. You can't get away from it because it's a serious problem. Appropriate legal regulations could be developed, but in the course of normal work. This is not normal legislative work. I have no doubt that it is designated an election fever. President Kaczyński put the thesis on Friday, and Minister Adamczyk fills it in. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It fills quickly, which is why it's inefficient. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u504	Thank you very much, sir. I do not see Mr Joseph Brynkus. Mr Krystian Jarubas, club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u505	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I am pleased to present my position on the Government's draft law on the Development Fund for public service bus services, print No 3411. Ladies and gentlemen! We have an express pace of work on the bill on the transport fund. I understand, ladies and gentlemen, that the elections are coming up and the PiS is in a hurry, but there is a saying that can be paraphrased and said as follows: as PiS is in a hurry, the devil is pleased. Because the devil, ladies and gentlemen, is in the details. I want to be substantive. Ladies and gentlemen! There has been a debate in the committee, and it is against this law in many respects. Firstly, the PiS should know that without money you cannot solve the problem of bus connections. Of the billions promised by President Kaczyński, a drop was made, several hundred million, and it already shows in the beginning that the bill, ladies and gentlemen, is a bubble. The next thing you know, it's about time. You can't buy it with any money. Experts agree that the implementation of communications within a few months is a complete dream. In Poland, bus connections, mainly bus services, have been halved in the last few years, from almost 1 billion km to less than 0.5 billion km. That's what the president said. He forgot time isn't rubber. Time is one thing and the other is the question whether the promised by the PiS 800 million PLN per year will suffice. Technically, yes, if the money is spent on one voivodship, then we will fit in the amount planned by the PiS. Ladies and gentlemen! The way this money's going to be shared will determine a government regulation. The amount of funding will be rigid, in the whole country it will be up to 80 gr to 1 km. I would not, ladies and gentlemen, take the liberty of setting a single amount that should apply everywhere. Ladies and gentlemen! We are talking about voivodships, so I will exchange the Podkarpackie voivodship. Mr Jarosław, Krosno, Rzeszów - bus connections being closed. So it is good that the discussion is going on, as my previous speaker said, because this is a very important subject, many people are waiting for this bill. We as the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats will not block this project, we will support it, but we will certainly have to work on this project again during the revision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u506	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u507	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Behind us crazy, I would say, the legislative process concerning the draft law on the Development Fund for public service bus services. Of course, this can be done because the facts allow, but whether common sense should not suggest something in the case of such laws, in which it decides to spend 800 million PLN on issues which are the subject, I think, of universal political agreement. The consensus is that we have to fight the exclusion of communications. And the question is whether this common sense is lacking, the time to think about whether the solutions proposed by the government are certainly able to respond to the needs of local governments and, above all, to the communication needs of citizens. As far as this project is concerned, unfortunately, it is characterised by, I would say, a serious disadvantage from the very beginning: it has not been consulted with local authorities, it has not been the subject of a joint government and local government committee, not much of this, it has received a negative opinion. This is where the High House was misled as it received a negative opinion from one of the committees. The justification for the project was a binding opinion, but it was not a negative opinion. The State has misled the public and the High House. This is what a representative of local governments spoke about during a committee meeting. Minister! I must say that I was at least hoping that, during the committee meeting, there would be an understanding on your side for changing priorities as regards the order in which these funds were allocated. I thought that if we talked about the fact that municipalities should not be lonely islands that organize transport, only this transport should be organized in communication relationships, and this law should also include an impulse to create these relationships, then understanding will be found. I must say with regret that contrary to logic, contrary to the tendency and expectations of local governments even in this simple one, it would seem that there is no understanding of you. This, of course, is one of the elements that will result in 800 million PLN, which could actually do something, not being used as heavily and with the effect that it could have been done if you had accepted at least one argument. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I am proposing to you another three amendments, including the one that talks about changing priorities in terms of the order of allocation of funds. I hope that at least on this issue, but also on the financing of this fund, we will find some agreement, because it can't really be that there is a promise first for a million electric cars, and then you spend this money on a completely different purpose. There was a promise, there were supposed to be resources...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u508	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u509	...for electromobility, and now we're eliminating it. I am making amendments and I hope that they will be considered positively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u510	Seven ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. Mrs Margaret Navel. She's not here. Mrs Iwona Krawczyk, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u511	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The rapporteur used this term, he said that you were meeting the expectations of passengers. I would say that you meet the expectations of the originator, Mr. Kaczyński, who in five+ emphasized this very strongly. [[It's barbaric, ma'am, barbaric.]] I'm saying this project is going to work just as well as living plus. The draft PKS law provides for the financing of the bus fund from tolls and the state budget. Now, questions. Is it true that it's money, among other things. for construction and repair of roads will be used to finance bus lines? What about the draft allocation of additional revenues from the fuel bill? Will he be maintained? Can cross-border lines be established that belong to the border nature of the village? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u512	Thank you. Mr Antoni Duda, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u513	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! During many meetings with residents of small towns in my constituency, I was very often confronted with the fact that the inhabitants of these small towns are practically excluded in terms of taking up or changing jobs, because of the inability to get to a potential employer, an employer looking for employees. The elimination of bus connections, which took place after the systemic transformation, is one of the biggest problems of small towns located on the outskirts of the regions, the pains that Warsaw and metropolitan areas are not feeling at all. That is why this point of the fifth law and justice, of Kaczyński's five, is so expected. The financing of unattractive transport is a prerequisite for restoring it. Minister! Is there any provision for funding already in place for the courses that are being carried out Just because the local government makes a contribution to them with their own resources? Will the funding cover only newly launched or restored after a minimum of 3 months of connection? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u514	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u515	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers! That's how I'd like to talk about specifics. I would like to ask you what additional budget resources you will be able to show us from which revenue they will come, so as not to limit the existing plans. Why are you withdrawing funds for the development of electromobility? Didn't Prime Minister Morawiecki succeed in his project? Why do you withdraw money, among others? From road investments? Are you trying to cheat, say there's money on the roads and then cut back on the road, saying we have on the buses? I was not answered during the debate on this project on the question about cars, this price. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is that enough to finance additional courses on the lines that exist?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u516	Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u517	And fighting the smog. Why are you taking money out of this, too? Why don't you look for savings in the administration? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u518	Mr Stanisław Żmijan, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u519	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I wanted to ask you again about powering up this fund. This fund is powered from many sources, including by the Technical Supervision Authority. To my question, what did this office deserve, the Minister disarmedly replied that he had reached out to the rich man. The question is, who in our country can feel confident about how you're going to reach out to everyone who has money. Of course, there are questions that have already been formulated here many times, just about this fight with smog, about these electric cars, about these road programs. You've built a financial pyramid, and you're funding different programs from the same funds. Some kind of matrix. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u520	Mrs Anna Cicholska, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u521	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I would like to thank the members of the Commission and the Ministry of Infrastructure for their work on the government draft law on the Development Fund for public service bus services. Passengers have waited a long time for such a project. [[And no one's gonna answer our questions?]] Minister! I have a question for you. What benefits will the districts in my district, i.e. in the Płocko-ciechanów district, have in connection with the implementation of this project? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u522	Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u523	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I've already spoken on this subject today. I would like to say that I am a Member of the Koszalin land, who drives in villages, communities. I visit people all over the district and they're surprised because it's the first time they've seen a messenger. I see roads, these suburban, communal, county roads that look like Swiss cheese. I would like to say that I am happy to restore these bus lines, because there is such demand for us on Koszalin soil. It's a popeger area. Not everyone has a car, not everyone has something to drive, and people have to get to town, shopping or shopping. I therefore have a question: Have you carried out analyses and consultations on the profitability of the bus lines concerned? I'm here, of course. [[♪ The bell ♪]] for their reactivation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u524	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u525	Question at the end: Will you restore communication links from Warsaw to Koszalin and from Koszalin to Warsaw? Like I said, there's nothing to get there in the afternoon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u526	Thank you, sir, thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u527	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The very bad thing about this law is that it excludes the inhabitants of certain towns. Law and Justice don't like, for example. inhabitants of Bielska-Biała, Cieszyna, Żywca, Pszczyny, Czechowice-Dziedzic. The inhabitants of these towns will not benefit from this solution, but communication has a different dimension, including that it reaches white spots. Urban communication also gets to them. The fact that you thought that she doesn't need support even where there are such white spots is a mistake. I don't understand why people in my region should be hurt. Minister! I would like to ask you about the increase in the replacement fee, namely the energy issue that was included in the bill. You're raising the replacement fee by 40%. This will affect the electricity bill, because energy plants pay this fee. You can see that in the explanatory memorandum of the bill. As long as household expenditure increases in relation to [[♪ The bell ♪]] With a 40% replacement fee increase? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u528	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Andrzej Adamczyk, Minister of Infrastructure, will speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u529	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Once again, thank you for the debate on the proposed bill. This debate is needed. Of course, in part it results from in-depth analyses, and in part it results from an in-depth knowledge of the fate of this law or the fate of another law. Such an example is the statement that the bill received a negative opinion in the consultation process. The Member has confused the draft laws. Mr President, this is not the project. It is about a completely different bill, which is also called, but it concerns broader matter. The legislative process is currently underway and the proposal has not yet been addressed to the Sejm. As far as energy costs are concerned, nothing is more misleading. The processes described in the bill relate to fuels, not to cost increases by several dozens of percent. This is absolutely incompatible with reality. First of all, thank you very much for most of your support for the project, for your support for the idea. Thank you for the declaration that if there is a need to amend the law, which I hope will be adopted, everyone will be actively involved in the work on it. As I took the liberty of saying at the first reading of this House, I hope that this project will be a project for all of us, whether governing or opposition. These are legislative solutions for which Poles, residents of small settlements, small towns, not as large agglomerations as Bielsko-Biała, Tychy or Silesian agglomeration are waiting. I mean, there's an organized bus service. It must be remembered that millions of Poles live in places where, unlike Bielsko-Biała, Pszczyna or Katowice on Saturday, you cannot go to a doctor, hospital, friends or family on Sunday. You can't come back from there either. That is why we hope, not only me personally, but also the team with which I am preparing this bill, that it will be a project of all of us. Despite the comments, often very critical, I hope, and once again I repeat, that the project will start functioning and create a mechanism for the flywheel that will trigger the creation of bus connections in excluded areas where these connections do not exist today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u530	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u531	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the report of the committee on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the Development Fund for public service bus services. This regulation aims to support the filling of white spots on the map of functioning communication lines. This is important because today, through the lack of adequate communication links, many people living in smaller cities, which are far from larger agglomerations, have difficult access to schools, workplaces or even doctors. They are excluded from public life because the maintenance of the bus routes in question was not profitable. I am pleased that the government has seen this considerable problem, as demonstrated by the heated discussion on these regulations so far. Although the total opposition tried to reduce the relevance of the proposed provisions by trying to change their objective by extending the scope of the entities that could benefit from the funding, including those managing the city lines, I am pleased to note that the merit of the proposed law has been changed. The project has the support of independent environments, social partners, because it contains good solutions. I will remind you that in 2019 the level of funding from the fund will be PLN 300 million and in the following years PLN 800 million. This translates into hundreds of kilometres of new bus services. This is another proof that the government of the United Right cares for Poles and for the development of the whole country, realizes its promises. The Free and Solidarni Circle supports the presented project.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u532	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 15 May this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I consider the list of Members of this House to be closed. As the first Mrs Anna Cicholska, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u533	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! At the end of March and April, I had the pleasure of visiting Florida officially. As a member of the Parliamentary Committee on Education, Science and Youth, I was particularly interested in aspects of Polish education. I have had several visits, both in Polish schools and in schools in which our fellow countrymen study overseas. In Polish Saturday school im. Maria Skłodowska-Curie in Clearwater, whose rooms are accessible by the Polish center. John Paul II, I had the pleasure of meeting with the staff, students and parents of this facility. This school teaches Polish language, history, geography and religion. The centre and school play an important role in integrating the Polish environment of Florida. National holidays are celebrated here together. A great deal of importance is attached to celebrating customs celebrations, such as harvest festivals or petticoats. How important it is to cultivate Polish traditions, learn Polish language and our history in a foreign country, there is no need to explain it to anyone. The laying of Polishness, patriotism and love for the country should be the duty of every Pole. Our countrymen living outside the country are particularly responsible. It takes enthusiasm and commitment, but mostly true love for Poland. It is for this love that all these people deserve our words of appreciation and thanks. Especially in my memory were the touching meetings with the president and members of the Sibirak Union, as well as representatives of the families of political migrants. Their children and grandchildren, raised in love for Poland, will certainly not forget their distant homeland. Now I am sure that in many places in Florida there are hot Polish hearts beating. This cultivation of Polish tradition, customs and history is carried out from home, from Poland, our homeland. From this point on, I would like to thank Barbara Kirschner, the clerk, and Dr. Louis Kirschner for the professional coordination of the visit and the warm welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u534	Thank you very much. Now Mr Stefan Romecki, the Kukiz club15, will make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u535	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! A few days ago I attended a meeting of members of housing cooperatives from the area of Koszalin and on behalf of these residents I address our representatives in the legislative authorities in Poland and the European Union. I would like to add that the draft law submitted by the Kukiz club15, which was submitted by Mr Sachajko, has been in the seym freezer for a long time. The co-operatives say, if you want to have our votes, hand over the co-operatives to us. I declare on their behalf the demands of the housing community: firstly, the possibility of establishing communities in cooperative resources, secondly, the greater control of cooperative bodies by members, thirdly, the transparency of the functioning of cooperative authorities, fourthly, the liquidation of the vetting carried out by the KRS, fifthly, the universal elections to cooperative bodies, sixthly, the cadence of boards, seventhly, the statutory restrictions for persons elected to supervisory boards of housing cooperatives, ninthly, the inspection of all documents relating to the activities of cooperatives, and tenthly, the obligation for cooperatives to run a website. I would like to inform you that these postulates are included in the draft law of Kukiz.15, which, as I said, was submitted by Jarosław Sachajko, and are already in the Seym Refrigerator, because the freezer is too small. The members of the cooperative are not a herd of rams that can be cut easily - that is the expression of the members. Co-operatives therefore call on representatives of all policy options to put themselves above party interests and amend cooperative laws which will restore the subjectivity of cooperative members. The new law is a very important issue for millions of people living in cooperatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u536	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u537	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Today, in my parliamentary statements, I intervene with regard to events judged extremely critically by the inhabitants of my city, the city of Mielca, on the change of the final ranking list of applications for funding approved by the Podkarpackie Voivodeship on 30 November 2018, published in the Public Information Bulletin on 3 December 2018 as part of the development programme of municipal and district road infrastructure implemented in 2019 under the framework of the abovementioned. The program. I would like to ask the Prime Minister and inform him that, on the basis of the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 154/2015 of 8 September 2015 on the establishment of a multiannual programme on the occasion of the establishment of the multiannual programme. The development programme of municipal and district road infrastructure for the years 2016-2019, as amended, was announced for the selection of applications for the construction, extension and reconstruction of local roads carried out in 2019 in the Podkarpackie Voivodeship. As a result of such an announced competition, the municipality of Mielec submitted an application for the reconstruction of the street. Industrial, communal road in Mielec, along with the reconstruction of a small roundabout cross-section on the street. The Polish Army, and the district of Mielecki, submitted an application for the reconstruction of the road of the county relations between Tuszów Narodowy - Chorzzelów - Mielec in the village of Chorzzelów. On the basis of the provisions of the Podkarpackie Voivodeship Communication of 14 August 2018 and the document: the Commission's award methodology for the substantive evaluation of applications submitted under this programme, 18 and 23.5 points respectively, taking 16th and 14th place on the ranking list as part of the financing for 2019. Due to the information about the change of order in the ranking list and the transfer of the application of the municipality of Mielec from the basic list to a distant place on the reserve list... This involves not granting the amount of PLN 3 million and moving the application of the district of Mielecki from the basic list to a distant place. It's a loss of 1850,000. PLN for road investments. Finally, I would like to stress that the investments planned for implementation are expected by the inhabitants of the city and the district. I ask you to answer the following questions honestly, and I expect you to answer them from the Prime Minister. What was the legal basis and detailed justification for such decisions? Who is responsible for this confusion regarding the change of ranking lists? Currently, the changes made on the December ranking list accepted by the Voivode of Podkarpackie bear certain losses for applicants, as road reconstructions are not planned from day to day. Who will bear the costs associated with the start-up of the investment on the basis of a previously published list, still in 2018? I want to end by saying, and it is my voice, that when President Kaczyński visited, he promised: we will win the election, there will be money, we will lose, there will be sword and sack in Podkarpacie. So? Where the election was lost, where the PiS lost the election, you punish the residents, in this case the inhabitants of Mielec. How do you practice politics? Can applications that have been positively evaluated, one deletion of the Prime Minister, be sent to the basket? That's not right. This is an unreliabilityal exercise of authority. This is Poland for your own. This is a statement: we have power, we can do what we need to do with this power. You don't care about the residents. You don't care about the people of Podkarpacie. Don't come to the Podkarpath. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u538	Mr Waldemar Andzel, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u539	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! International Family Day is held on May 15th. In Poland this holiday is not yet very popular, but already many Polish companies have joined it, introducing the so-called. Two hours for the family. International Family Day has been an opportunity for 26 years to highlight the role of family and raise awareness in societies of the problems faced by a typical family. International Family Day was established by the UN General Assembly in 1993 when Resolution 47/234 was adopted and approved that 15 May would be a family celebration. Seems like a fresh start. Without official approval, it functioned before. The first day of the family was celebrated in 1984, and if you look at it another way, consider the fact that people have been starting families for a long time and are happy to belong to it, the family day has been celebrated since time immemorial. The International Family Day is to draw attention to the problems faced by the family, reminding us that it is a basic social group, which depends on a lot and deserves a lot of attention. The family should be remembered by us who are part of it, but also by the authorities, politicians who influence it with their actions. It is worth remembering not only when we celebrate family day, that family is the most important. It is not without reason that it is often emphasized that it is a basic social group, a brick that builds the whole. Family is the whole world of a little baby. There's nothing for him but the closest ones. In daily rushes, we often forget about seemingly trivial activities, about spending time together, about conversations, even about nothing. Family day is to remind you that what is important is at hand, so we should take care of it. But it's not just for us to open our eyes. It should not be overlooked that this holiday is also intended to remind you how important pro-family policy is, above all, the 500+ family programme, which is the financial foundation for family support. The programme entered into force on 1 April 2016 and contributed to a significant improvement in the material situation of families, strengthened them and gave them the necessary priority. Keep in mind also the Large Family Charter, it is a discount system and additional privileges for the family 3+. The Large Family Charter operates both in public institutions and in private companies. The holders of the Large Family Card have the opportunity to use a cheaper offer of entities, among others. from the food, fuel, banking or recreational industries. The Large Family Charter supports the budgets of large families and facilitates access to goods and services. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u540	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u541	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On Sunday, 12 May 2019 in Opatkowice, the municipality of Puławy Lublin Voivodeship held a commemoration ceremony commemorating the 75th anniversary of the drop of the silent crew in the village. On the night of 19 to 20 May 1944, the crew of a liberal belonging to the 1586th task force of the RAF carried out an operation with the code name "Weller 18'. The flight from the Italian crew Brindisi dropped a crew of silent jumpers and war material. The drop was picked up by soldiers of the Home Army at 2 Góra Puławska - Jasmin 302. Jan Zawadzki, Gerwaze. Captain was killed in action. Dipl. Jan Serafin, who did not open the parachute. In addition, a group of jumpers were: Capt. Louis Fortuna, Capt. Rudolf Pop-pop, cf. Zdzisław Winiarski and st. Sergeant Zdzisław Winiarski Alexander Lewandowski. Captain. Jan Serafin ps. Czerchawa, Cherubin was born on 30 December 1913 in Chukwi in the territory of present Ukraine. He received a certificate of maturity in 1934, then took up his studies at the Marine Reserve School in Różana and the Infantry School in Komorów near Ostrów Mazowiecka, after which he was appointed lieutenant. He was a soldier in September 1939. He took part in battles with Germany near Włocławek, Kutn, in the defense of Lowicz, in the battle near Żyrardów, Modlin, under Jabłonna, under Mińsk Mazowiecki and under Stara Miłosna, where he was wounded in the face. He took part in the defense of Warsaw. After the surrender, he left for Lviv and hid from the Soviets. Then he crossed the border with Hungary, escaped from internment and after receiving his passport in December 1939 arrived in France, where he joined the Polish Armed Forces. That's where he finished his flamethrower course and his officer's course. He took part in battles, was captured from where he fled to an unoccupied French zone. He served there in an intelligence facility in Marseille and in a Polish military mission, which organized the transfer of Poles to Great Britain, to which he arrived in January 1942. He was assigned to the First Officer's School Battalion, and then he was interned in British troops. He volunteered to serve in the country. He graduated with a specialty in diversion. On March 1, 1944, he was promoted to captain. On the night of 19 to 20 May 1944, under Operation He's buried in a cemetery in High Kole. He was awarded four times the Cross of Valiant, the Silver Cross of Merit with Swords and the French Cross of War with a gold star. On Sunday 12 May 2019 there was a celebration commemorating the 75th anniversary of this event. The heroes were given by the representatives of the Puławy district government - the starosta Danuta Smaga, together with the chairman of the district council Janusz Wawerski and the district councillors, the local authorities of Puławy, residents, firefighters, teachers, students, guests, including those connected by family ties with Capt. Seraphim, representatives of the Polish Paratroopers' Union. Among the honored guests there was also among others. Member of the Polish Parliament saying these words. Anniversary celebrations began a joint prayer at the Shrine of the Blessed Virgin Mary of the Queen of the Rosary of St. in the High Kole. After Mass. flowers were laid, candles were lit on the grave of Capt. Serafina. Further part of the ceremony took place at the Primary School in Opatkowice. The memory of the participants in the operation spoken to the words of the fallen and the flowers placed in front of the plaque. The memory of this operation and our heroes has been celebrated in Opatkowice since 2014. Always an active participant in the ceremony is schoolchildren, for whom it is a living lesson of history, promoting values such as patriotism and respect for those who have fallen in defence of their homeland. From this point of view, I would like to thank you very much for the beautiful setting of the ceremony for organizers, firefighters, schoolchildren, directors and teachers. Special regards to Mr Sławomir Capala and Mr Sławomir Snopek, animators and active participants of the ceremony. Hello and praise the heroes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u542	Mrs Alicja Chybicka, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u543	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to say a few words about the functioning of the State Medical Rescue in light of recent changes. I would like to remind you that this system consists of medical rescue teams: ambulances S, i.e. specialized ambulances P, basic, aircraft emergency and SORs, which are at most of the great hospitals. State Medical Rescue operates on the basis of the Act of 8 September 2006. Three people drive in specialized teams, i.e. Doctor of emergency medicine, paramedic and driver. There are many doubts following the revision of the Regulation of the Minister of Health of 15 February 2019 which amends the Regulation on guaranteed hospital treatment benefits. The changes made there relate to the specific conditions to be met by healthcare providers in the provision of scheduled hospitalised benefits, and at the same time the conditions for this medical transport are defined. The regulation relates to the intended introduction of a new benefit - separately contracted by the NFZ of medical transport carried out if necessary transport of the patient between hospitals. The organisation of this benefit proposed by the health department raises serious doubts. The president of the Polish Medical Rescue Society Jarosław Madowicz speaks on this matter. The adoption of this proposal within the framework of the organisation of transport delivery was expected, but this proposal, which, if not modified, will become a reality, will bring chaos and will put a very difficult, practically impossible task before hospitalisation managers. I wanted to speak on the basis of my own experience. Well, ambulances come very often late, they're not enough. There aren't enough paramedics. Medical transport does not function as it should. I'm not gonna talk about the S.R.s anymore. Everyone who listens to this is well aware that until now it has never been so that the patient dies at the SOR without waiting for absolutely help. And this does not apply to the elderly. This is a phenomenon that often affects young people, people who have curable diseases that can be done with something. Stigmatizing people by sticking cards to them, who is to be served faster, and who later - it resembles times of war, where the sick were separated in difficult conditions. Now we don't have a war. Why do we put such... I think that's because health care has never really been a priority, it's never put the right resources on staff. The staff is not enough right now, both doctors and nurses. Therefore, the State Medical Rescue, which requires funding, like other areas of medicine, is currently functioning on the basis of people who are certainly perfect and who are trying to do what they can. However, with such a system of operation of this rescue these effects are just as we see: a sick person often waits long for an ambulance, and at the SOR he may die. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u544	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u545	Mr. Marshal! Dear borrowers commonly known as franchise! It was worth the wait. It was worth fighting to learn from the Advocate General of the Court of Justice of the European Union that you are victims, as in recent days. You're not smart, you're not crooks, you're not thieves. You're victims of criminals in white collars who robbed you. You are also victims of politicians who did not have the courage to face the financial lobby and who were afraid to become a wall behind the citizens. You are victims of courts that did not have the courage to enforce Directive 93/13, in which the Court of Justice of the European Union speaks about consumer rights. After all these years, you are victims of the media that acted lobbyistly, not pro-Citizenly, calling you French, who will drag you to the bottom of honest borrowers and those who keep money in the bank. Ladies and gentlemen, we're getting our face back. 600,000. Polish families regain dignity, regain face, can walk straight. Judge, you have a chance to make up for your mistakes. You have the opportunity to correct your sentences. You have the opportunity to stand a wall behind the citizens. Politicians. Polish political class can only be ashamed. I was an applicant for two draft laws on the Francs for the Kukiz club15. I was the Member who stood with the Francis on the street, participated in the demonstrations, acted on the parliamentary committees. Kukiz Club 15 was with you. Unfortunately, the majority of Members in the plenary did not have the courage to do so. Today they will certainly seek a way to justify themselves. I'm sure they'll be looking for a way to say I wanted to, but I couldn't, I tried, but it didn't work out. We fought and won because the truth always wins, and justice is certainly always on the side of citizens. And one more thing, the most important thing. I thank all those who supported me as a Member. I would like to thank all of you from the Banker's Banker's Law Association, from the victims' associations, all of them, all of them, all of my social assistants, who stood by me to support me in this fight. I thank all the lawyers who supported me with their legal assistance, opinions and actions. In a word, ladies and gentlemen, if we're together, we can do more. There are other issues ahead of us and examples of breaches of the rights of consumers that we will talk about and which we will fight. GetBack and many other scandals. We're not gonna let this go. A wall behind the citizens.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-15-sejm-81-1.u546	That concludes our parliamentary statements. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. By 16 May 2019 at the latest 9. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 21 min 43]]
