ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u1	Resume session. I would like to call on Mr Marta Kubiak, Mr Sylvester Tulayev, Mr Puda and Mr Piotr Olszówka to be the secretaries of today's proceedings. The first part of the session will be Mr Marta Kubiak and Mr Sylvester Tulaev. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Marta Kubiak and Piotr Olszówka. At its 76th meeting, the Sejm did not vote on the referral to the parliamentary committee of the draft law on Mutual Assistance Fund for the Stabilisation of Agricultural Incomes, print No 2802. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with a point including this vote. The competent committees have submitted additional reports on draft laws: - the establishment of the Holy of the State on 14 April - the Feast of the Baptism of Poland, - amending the Act on the establishment of the Polish Agency for Enterprise Development. These are printers 2765-A and 3122-A respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the third reading of these draft laws. The competent bodies have submitted draft laws: - amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, - amending the Civil Procedure Code Act and certain other laws, - amending the Commercial Companies Code Act, - amending the Code of Conduct in Criminal Matters Act, - amending the Law on support for rural development with the contribution of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014 to 2020 and certain other laws, - amending the Act on the refund of excise duty contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production. These are printers 3134, 3193, 3137, 3142, 2417, 3202 and 3206 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the first reading of these draft laws. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Law on the Principles for the Management of State Property and certain other Acts, - amending the Law of the Criminal Code implementing it, - amending the Real Estate Management Act, - the termination of the Agreement between the Polish People's Republic and the Republic of Finland on Legal Protection and Legal Assistance in Civil, Family and Criminal Matters, signed in Helsinki on 27 May 1980, - ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of Denmark on the allocation of maritime areas in the Baltic Sea, signed in Brussels on 19 November 2018. These are printers 3165, 3129, 3127, 3151 and 3168 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending certain laws in order to ensure the application of Regulation 2016/679, - amending the Road Transport Act. These are printers 3197 and 3214 respectively. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the examination of these reports. The committee responsible has submitted reports on draft resolutions: - on the celebration of the Secret Military Organisation of the Pomeranian Gryf Pomeranian, - to commemorate the 145th anniversary of Vincent Witos' birthday, - to celebrate the 100th anniversary of Ignacy Jan Paderewski's office. The reports shall be printed in No 3188, 3191 and 3190 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. The committee responsible has submitted reports on draft resolutions: - on the 30th anniversary of the death of Fr. Stefan Sunday and Fr. Stanisław Suchowolec - Polish patriots murdered by unknown perpetrators, - on the 100th anniversary of the debut and 50th anniversary of the death of Kazimierz Wierzyński. These are printers 3224 and 3225 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy presented its position on the information of the Government of the Republic of Poland on the activities undertaken in 2017 for the implementation of the resolution of the Polish Sejm of 1 August 1997. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point including consideration of this information. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy has put forward its views on the reports on the implementation of the National Programme against Violence in the Family for the period 2014 to 2020 for: - 1 January to 31 December 2015, - 1 January to 31 December 2016, - from 1 January to 31 December 2017. The Commission's posts are in prints 1154, 2081 and 3010 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. The Sejm's points will be decided tonight, there are two points at issue. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and five-minute statements on behalf of the circles in a joint discussion on the reports on the implementation of the National Programme against Violence in the Family. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in discussions on: - the Commission's reports on draft laws: - the termination of the agreement between the Polish People's Republic and the Republic of Finland, - ratification of the agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of Denmark, - the committee's reports on draft anniversary resolutions. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in discussions on the other items on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The items on the agenda of the current session of the Sejm - I would remind you that this is a continuation - will be considered in accordance with the order of opinion of the Sejm Bureau and the Senior Convention. Information on this matter, as well as the list of laws that the Senate adopted without amendments, are available in the Sejm Information System. The formal proposal is submitted by Mr Robert Winnicki, a non-attached Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Formal conclusion. On behalf of the national-free coalition, I propose that the government of Prime Minister Morawiecki gets up off his knees in relations with the United States and Israel. Thank you for your attention. [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u3	Mr President, I thank you for your interest in the current foreign policy of the Republic of Poland, but there is no such statement in the list of formal proposals, so I cannot accept your vote for the formal proposal. Member of Marek Owa, Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform-Citizen Coalition Parliamentary Club, I make a formal request with regard to item 18 of today's agenda and with reference to Article. Paragraph 184. 2 point 1 request a recess. A brief statement of reasons. Tomorrow we will adopt a resolution of the Sejm on the commemoration of Wincent Witos on his 145th anniversary. It is worth remembering his words: where the interest of the state begins, where the interests of the party ends. As you can see, in recent weeks this maxim is completely alien to the ruling party. PiS politicians, when President Kaczyński is accused of fraud and solicitation instead of explaining the charges, they stood behind the president. [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] The Prime Minister, the ministers, the Marshals of the Sejm, the whole apparatus of the state, starting with the prosecutor's office, through the services, instead of explaining the matter to the public, they deliver...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u5	Mr President, this is nothing to do with the Vincent Witos resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u6	...nothing meaningless, telling stories about the president's integrity. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] Instead of explaining... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u7	Mr President, I am so sorry. You're not saying anything, so I can't accept this proposal of yours, especially after listening to the explanatory statement for a formal motion. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u8	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Poselska etiquette - hour. 10.30, - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 11, - Public Finance - hour. 11, - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 11, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 12, - Investigative to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group - hour 12, - Health-- hour. 12.30, - Infrastructure - hour 13, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13.30, - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 14, - Public Finance - hour. 14, - Foreign Affairs - hour 14, - Infrastructure - hour 2.30 p.m., - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - at 15, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 15, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 15, - Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs - hour. 15, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 3.30 p.m., - Infrastructure - hour 16, - Infrastructure - the beginning of the meeting around 3 p.m. 17, immediately after the end of the meeting convened at 11 p.m. 16, - Digitalisation, Innovation and Modern Technology together with the Committee on Foreign Affairs - h.m. 17, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 5:30. In addition, the following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Team for Supporting Entrepreneurship and Economic Patriotism - h.m. 13, - Joint meeting of the Parliamentary Mining and Energy Team and the Parliamentary Panel on Marine Wind Energy - hour 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Organisation for Health Protection - h.m. 15, - Parliamentary Group for: development of poultry as a strategic branch of the Polish economy - h. 3.30 p.m., - Parliamentary Firefighters' Team - hour. 17. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u9	Thank you, Member. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the Government's draft law amending the IWT Act (prints 3118 and 3124). I ask Mr Zaremba to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Marshal of the Sejm on 10 January this year. sent a governmental draft law amending the IWT Act, print No 3118, to the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation for first reading, while setting the deadline for submitting the report by 19 February. The project aims to implement European Union law and concerns the implementation of Directive 2016/1629 of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union, which lays down the technical requirements necessary to ensure the safety and classification of ships operating on waterways. The Commission carried out its first reading at its meeting on 15 January this year. and immediately after the first reading, it proceeded to consider the draft law. The Commission adopted amendments of an editorial, legislative and substantive nature. The substantive amendment consisted in the introduction of a definition of a traditional watercraft. The Commission adopted without objection a report on Draft Print Act No 3124. Thank you. [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u11	Thank you, sir. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I invite Mr Jerzy Wilk to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. I would like to ask your Members to move the talks to the roundabouts of the plenary room. I would ask you to speak, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u12	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The draft law amending the IWT Act aims to implement two EU directives: the first of 2016 - 2016/1629, and the second of 2018 - 2018/970. Those Directives lay down the technical requirements necessary to ensure the safety of vessels sailing on inland waterways in Poland and European countries. The bill provides for the following solutions. Firstly, the possibility of issuing an EU inland navigation certificate is introduced. This document replaces the existing ship safety document and allows ships to operate on waterways in Poland and European countries. Secondly, a new document supplementing the EU inland navigation certificate is introduced. This document is intended to allow shipowners to operate on waterways for which additional technical requirements have been introduced for ships. To date, Polish shipowners could only obtain such a document in other European countries which introduced additional requirements for ships. Thirdly, the possibility of renewing security documents is introduced, i.e. legalisation of a document which has already expired. To date, in the event of the expiry of the document, the ship owner had to apply for a new document. The solution introduced will shorten and simplify this procedure. Fourthly, State supervision of the so-called activities is ensured. classification bodies, i.e. entities which perform, inter alia, technical inspection of vessels. The Minister responsible for inland waterway transport will monitor compliance by these institutions and may request the European Commission to withdraw the authorisation to carry out inspections in the event of infringements. Fifthly, the security documents shall be kept public. All interested parties will be able to view or obtain copies of such documents. Such a solution will enable persons using the vessel to verify that the ships comply with safety requirements. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the draft law amending the IWT Act and will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u13	Thank you, sir. And I invite Mr Leszek Ruszczyk, the Civic Platform Club, the Civic Coalition, to present a position on behalf of this club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u14	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform presents its position on the government draft law amending the IWT Act. This law is the implementation of a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union laying down the technical requirements necessary for the classification of waterways and ensuring the safety of vessels sailing therein. In addition, it regulates the responsibilities of the experts and chairmen of the inspection committees. It also lays down the conditions for obtaining Union authorisations for shipowners and introduces an obligation to obtain Union inland navigation certificates. When discussing this law on inland waterway transport, it is difficult not to express any concern about the situation prevailing in the State Water Farm of Poland. For example, in the Mazowieckie voivodship, after 13 months of operation, we are saddened to see organisational chaos, lack of regulation of labour matters, lack of working regulations, lack of permanent employment contracts, unregulated property matters, non-contractual use of self-government property since July 2018, selective acquisition of water equipment, where there is no other authorized entity on the market, lack of reviews of these equipment throughout 2018. During exchange 100% executives, directors, managers have been disposed of by highly qualified professionals, people with many years of experience and experience. The directors of water catchment managements do not have elementary decision-making powers in both human and financial matters, and above all in organisational and technical matters. It's up to the HQ. Such a lack of autonomy extends or directly paralyzes decision-making processes, even when carrying out tasks related to the proper maintenance of the waters and areas surrounding them, such as mowing, shaming, sowing, elimination of animal damage such as beavers, foxes, voles and wild boars. But according to media reports, the National Water Farm of Poland has also achieved a certain success in spending PLN 19 million. Because computers were bought, unfortunately without software, and 200 SUVs. This is impressive, especially in the absence of tractors, water appliances and even shovels. With such a dramatic drain of professional personnel, the low level of employees' salaries to buy new cars for directors appointed from the party key is scandalous. The question arises: Is the principal driving a luxury business car the most important goal of the company? The thread of sailing must also not overlook the queen of the rivers of Poland - Vistula, the largest undeveloped river in Europe. It was abandoned to work on her cavitation. Because of the widespread consolidation of the belief that water transport is not attractive on the river, any activity is dying. The only work carried out on the river is related to flood safety. Only on small local routes are small shipping units. The lack of stability of the water level, i.e. the lack of parameters for swimming, causes shipping to die. In short, the river with huge economic, transport and energy potential is forgotten and neglected. Nobody even plans intermodal transport hubs including river ports. Ladies and gentlemen! We are losing the historic opportunity and opportunity to rebuild the E40 waterway linking the Baltic Sea with the Black Sea. I am appealing here to the parliamentarians from the Vistula River to ask us to invest in our river. It's not just our chance, it's our duty. In conclusion, the Civic Platform Club - the Civic Coalition is an ally of the development of inland waterway transport and sees the enormous economic potential of river shipping. Let this bill draw the attention of the government to the need to develop an infrastructure investment plan dedicated exclusively to the Vistula. On behalf of the club, I declare that we will support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u15	Thank you, sir. And I invite you to address Mr Andrzej Kobylarz, who will present his position on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. But I don't see your MP. In that case, I invite Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, a club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, to present the position of this club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u16	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today we are debating for the second time, at second reading we are analysing the government's draft law on amending the IWT Act in prints 3118 and 3124. The aim of this project is above all to bring the existing legislation into line with the 2016 European Directive. This is why the statement on adaptation, the introduction of new solutions, the introduction of provisions that would make this legislation compatible with EU legislation is repeatedly reworded. Our club, as I said in my first speech, will support this project. We believe that everything must be done to ensure that, by using this legislation, the right level of safety for both inland waterway and coastal shipping, and that businesses and all those involved in inland waterways can feel equally appreciated, valued and seen as in the countries of the European Union. Hence, these solutions, which allow for new regulations, which allow the maintenance of new and so necessary safety conditions for the registration of units, obtaining permits for the execution and performance of tasks, way of keeping records. All of this is very important and should serve to ensure that the level of safety and the ability to carry out activities are improving and yielding better results. That's why the club's gonna support this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u17	Thank you very much, sir. Returning to the Kukiz club15, Mr Kobylarz's statement, Mr Andrzej Kobylarz's statement on behalf of the Kukiz club15 was made in writing. I ask Mr Radosław Lubczyk to speak on behalf of the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u18	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club Modern I have the honour to present a position towards the government's draft law amending the IWT Act, print no. 3118. When we examined this law at the committee's meeting, we had no objection to the changes in its content, because they are due to the need to bring national legislation into line with European Union law. It is important that changes include, among others.: extension of the obligation to obtain Union inland navigation certificates to ship-owners of certain categories of sea-going vessels; possibility for a ship-owner established in Poland to obtain a supplemental Union inland navigation certificate authorising navigation on European Union inland waterways where additional technical requirements have been introduced for ships; granting the right to inspect the Union inland navigation certificate to the persons concerned; changing the name of Community inland navigation certificates to EU inland navigation certificates; setting new requirements and procedures for the establishment of classification bodies. In particular, however, I would like to draw attention to the new fees paid to the IWT account, as their catalogue is expanding. A fee shall be created for: the issue, renewal and renewal of the supplementary Union inland navigation certificate, the renewal of the Union inland navigation certificate, the extension of the temporary Union inland navigation certificate, the duplicate or the provisional Union inland navigation certificate, the extract or a copy of the Union inland navigation certificate. As far as possible, we would like to know what profit is expected from the revenues from this catalogue on a yearly basis and whether we are talking about individual situations or whether this is a larger scale. We are also concerned about the amount of fines imposed on the classification institution - this is a penalty of up to 100,000. zł for failure to notify within a specified period the Minister responsible for inland navigation of any change causing failure to comply with the necessary requirements for the performance of the functions of a recognised classification body or for failure to promptly communicate any information and documents confirming non-compliance with those requirements and the continued performance of the tasks of a recognised classification body, the penalty for failure to comply with the information obligation to change the name or address of the classification body, for making it difficult or impossible for a classification body to start or carry out checks on non-compliance by it, and the penalties for ship owners for failure to provide information on ship scrapping and information on changes in the name, ship owner, registration or home port, the lack of information regarding the change in the technical parameters of the ship subject to entry in the Union inland navigation certificate, the change of which may lead to a risk of safety in inland navigation. We have questions about the influence of the above sanctions. We have no doubt that high penalties for offences that may lead to a safety risk in inland waterway transport are right, but we would like to know as a club whether there have been serious breaches of safety rules in these aspects so far and what impacts on the state budget per year we can talk about. Since the aim of the proposed law is to implement the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 September 2016 laying down technical requirements for inland waterway vessels, which provides for the establishment of the technical requirements necessary to ensure the safety of vessels sailing on inland waterways of the European Union, we see no objections to its adoption by the Sejm. Since the only means of implementing these requirements is by law, as a club, we will vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u19	Thank you, sir. Two Members have entered the list of people who want to ask a question in this point. Would any of your fellow Members like to ask you another question? I can't see. I'm closing the list for that. I invite Mr Piotr Pyzik, the Law and Justice, to ask the first question. Time - 1 minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u20	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask the following question: In the light of the information provided by the Inland Navigation Authority on the issue of inland navigation certificates, will the requirement to submit in the application for or extension of the certificate of opinion of the Regional Health Inspector on the authorisation to operate in respect of sanitary requirements of a ship used solely for the pursuit of sport or recreation, with a mechanical power of not more than 75 kW, be maintained? Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u21	Thank you very much. Another question, Mr Grzegorz Lorek, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u22	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are currently dealing with the implementation of the directive, therefore we are not talking about SUVs, we are only talking about adapting Polish law to this legislation. So we are implementing European law and this is the main issue that we are dealing with here today. I have a question about shipping certificates. We change, replace the return of the Community temporary shipping certificate with the return of the temporary EU inland navigation certificate. My question is this. The above mentioned documents will be mentioned. Is there any time for these documents to be exchanged? Do we know the costs involved? Because it usually causes the most problems. So it's either that we make time or that these testimonies are mentioned at such a time, so that it doesn't cause problems. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u23	Thank you very much. This question and previous questions will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping, Mr Grzegorz Witkowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u24	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, To Mr Pyzik's question, for which I thank you very much when it comes to the need for research and sanitary documents, I would like to say that the individuals that are used for sport and recreation are not subject to this provision. On the other hand, the rest of the vessels must have such a document at the very beginning of the registration, i.e. a one-off document which confirms the ship's technical capacity to sail inland waterways. On the question of Mr Lorek, I answer that temporary certificates are valid until their term of validity is expired. They can be from six months to five years. It's obvious that they need to be refilled. I would like, Mrs Marshal, to return to Mr Ruszczyk's speech, for which I thank you very much. Of course, in the matter of Polish Waters, I absolutely disagree with your assessment. Decide if they're underinvested or if we're spending too much money on new equipment. I agree that they have been underinvested for many, many years. We create, we merge this whole structure. The Mazowieckie Voivodship is a great example of how cooperation between the regional government and the Polish Waters should not be possible, because from the beginning we received reservations, complaints about this cooperation and failure by the regional government, by Mr Marshal, services under Marshal Struzik of appropriate equipment, people, rooms. Luckily, we're making up for it, and then, hopefully, everything's gonna be okay. As for the second part, you poured so much honey on our hearts when it comes to sailing Polish rivers, especially the Vistula, that I can only sign this speech and also appeal to all your Members, especially the parliamentarians concerned, to continue supporting the E40 waterway, but not only to it, to create e.g. parliamentary teams and support us in these investments. Speaking of harnessing the energy potential of Polish rivers, I would like you to pay attention to your colleagues in the context of digging up Wiślanya on their hysterical statements, so as not to do so. You have to decide, either we do or we don't. Thank you very much. Goodbye. [[What do you mean, hysterical?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u25	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u26	The aim of the bill under review is to implement European Union law on the implementation of the EP and EU Council Directive 2016/1629, which lays down the technical requirements necessary to ensure the safety and classification of vessels operating on waterways. The bill introduces e.g.: 1. cover the scope of the Act on the issue of Union inland navigation certificates, including certain categories of sea vessels and ships intended solely for sport or recreation; 2. replacement of Community inland navigation certificates and Community temporary inland navigation certificates by Union inland navigation certificates or Union inland navigation certificates respectively, 3. detailing and modifying the procedure for obtaining a duplicate safety document for the vessel in the event of loss or destruction of such document, 4. clarification of the provisions on the posting and making available of data in the European ship database, 5. regulation of maximum periods of validity of safety documents for certain categories of ships, 6. to allow a ship owner who is not subject to the provisions of this Directive to carry out a technical inspection and to obtain a Community inland navigation certificate if the ship complies with the requirements laid down in the Directive. Implementation of the above mentioned provisions Whereas the directive is necessary in order to ensure a correct and consistent international regulation of a harmonised system of technical requirements for and supervision of inland waterway vessels, the Kukiz Club15 therefore supports the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u27	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. [[What kind of language is that? It was hysterical.]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] [[How does he even refer to Members?]] [[Voice from the hall: What are these customs?]] [[Marshal, you could get the Minister's attention.]] I ask you to do so without these comments, also in substance, because they are equally not in place in the plenary room. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: Report... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Member, please... If anyone is offended, there is always an ethics committee, and the Minister knows perfectly well at which point he should not have turned to you in such a way, because it is not appropriate. [[It's not the first time.]] We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: Report from the Commission for Energy and the Treasury on the government draft law amending the Law on the rules for the management of state property and certain other laws (prints No 3053 and 3165). Mr Piotr King will present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u28	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Committee on Energy and the Treasury, I have the honour to present a report on the government draft law amending the Law on the Rules for the Management of State Property and some other laws, print No 3053. The Sejm at its 73rd meeting on 6 December 2018 in accordance with Article 7 of the Rules of Procedure. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred the above draft law to the Committee on Energy and the Treasury for consideration. The Energy and Treasury Commission, after considering this draft law at its meeting on 24 January 2019, invites the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u29	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Piotr Król will be the first member of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u30	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present our position on the draft law amending the Law on the Rules for the Management of State Property and certain other laws, prints No 3053 and 3165. I would like to inform you, Marshal, that after I speak on her behalf, I will make two amendments. I'm gonna let you tell me a little bit about them. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will make two amendments to this project. The first concerns Article. 11 point (3) (a) b. It is proposed to make a new sound. The aim of this amendment is to avoid any question of interpretation which might arise as a result of the initial wording of the proposal. As a result of the proposed amendment, the exception to the sale by PKP of fixed assets within the meaning of the Act of 29 September 1994 on Accounting by way of a tender will be to provide fixed assets to the company as a non-monetary contribution to cover the increased share capital in exchange for the inclusion of shares in that company, in particular for the implementation of the government programme. And the second amendment that Parliamentary Club Law and Justice makes to this bill is that of Article. 18 make a new sound. The purpose of this amendment is to add to the catalogue the entities which granted the power of attorney prior to the entry into force of the Act which will be left in force, including other bodies entitled under separate provisions to represent the State Treasury, as they also comply with the amended wording of the article. Article 6 (6) (a) 3 Laws on the rules for the management of State property will be able to order, in accordance with the rules and procedures laid down in separate provisions, legal or natural persons to carry out certain legal or factual or factual acts in respect of their jurisdiction by giving powers in this respect. It is therefore appropriate that other authorities authorised under separate provisions to represent the Treasury should also be included in this transitional provision. He would like to point out that this project concerns the removal of interpretation doubts which have arisen since the entry into force of the Law on the Principles for the Management of State Property, the clarification of some of its provisions and the addition of new solutions to clarify the competences and tasks of government administrations. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice with these amendments, which I am submitting to your marshal, intends to support this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u31	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Zdzisław Gawlik, who will present the position of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u32	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to address a government representative, but... [[There isn't.]] ...I'm having a little trouble with this. In this situation, I will continue. First of all, on behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, I would like to make two formal proposals, first amendments to this act and if amendments are not accepted, then a proposal to reject this draft law at second reading. Ladies and gentlemen! On the basis of the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Principles of State Property Management and some other laws, it was intended to improve the supervision and management of the State Treasury's property. However, there were no arguments in the course of the legislative work that would explain the doubts about the process of supervision of the State Treasury. Further, these doubts concern the individual decisions contained in this Act. So nothing changes the view as to the assessment of the proposed act. The drafters provide that the revised Law on the Principles for the Management of State Property will allow the powers and tasks of government administrations to be organised after the reform of State Property Management has been implemented since 1 January 2017. While we are dealing with a rather short period of application of the new rules, a new way of managing state property, this short time since these changes have already shown some regularity in the area of governance of state property. We can even say that we are dealing with solutions that have not improved the system of supervision of state property, and the models introduced by this law do not withstand the test of time. In the absence of time, I will give you two examples. It is deceptive to believe that focusing all supervisory powers in the hands of the President of the Council of Ministers will make this supervision more effective, more efficient. An example of the energy sector shows that this is not the case. In fact, this law has built sectoral Poland, where each of the resorts has an idea for an area which is assigned to it, subject to a legal act. Secondly, in this law there was built a kind of one-storey supervision of state property, e.g. in the area of disposal of items at the disposal of individual state-owned legal persons. And what does this upstairs oversight of state property lead to? In fact, it leads to the situation that one is looking at the other and, as a result, it is not really clear on whose side the responsibility lies, where there is a reason for certain decisions on the management of state property. In order not to be literal, I will use an example of the doubts that have arisen with regard to the availability of space - which the Polish company made. As we have seen, the representatives of the airports say: after all, the prosecutors also took part in these decisions to dispose of the property, so it should be all right. Here we are dealing with the creation of a number of actors who are involved in the management of this state property, and consequently one is looking at the other and, in principle, the responsibility is becoming increasingly blurred. There is no justification for maintaining the Capital Investment Fund in this Act. It is a specific legal structure, which assumes that in principle two people in the state receive the right to dispose, in principle beyond any control, of PLN 2 billion per year, at least such amount results from the figures indicated in the explanatory memorandum to this law. These objectives can be pursued in a different way, controlled by the State, rather than in the way proposed in this law. At the same time, there is no justification for this fund being allocated from the Fund for the Restructuring of Entrepreneurs. Over the years, the funds from this fund have been used to help entrepreneurs, including the private sector, who are in need. Today, these loans, the aid granted to these entrepreneurs, are gradually repaid. Including interest [[♪ The bell ♪]] this represents a significant amount of money. Please note that if we give up this fund, we will at the same time deprive entrepreneurs of the opportunity to help, and at the same time, through the creation of the Capital Investment Fund we will continue the process of nationalising the Polish economy, because that is what this is going to do. I don't think that's what this is about in the democratic economy, in the market economy. As it seemed so far, the market economy is based on private property rather than on increasing the volume of state ownership. Hence our proposals for a proposed bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u33	Thank you, sir. I invite you to address Mr Paweł Grabowski on behalf of the Kukiz team15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u34	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 in relation to the report of the Sejm Committee on a print project No. 3053, i.e. the government draft law amending the Law on the Rules for the Management of State Property and some other laws. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, a short historical drawing. In 1980 they were signed in August. August postulates. 13. The request was to introduce rules for selection of executives on the basis of qualifications, not party membership, and I think that this is unfortunately still valid. Of course, today these people are not chosen, or at least it is difficult to find evidence that someone is chosen, appointed, appointed as a governing position only on the basis of party membership. On the other hand, the experience of previous years, not only these three current term of office of the Sejm, but also the previous three decades after 1989, indicate and allow us to claim that, however, there are party nominees in the State Treasury companies, and these companies are simply looting. Political parties fight among themselves, among others. in order to be able to fill the State Treasury with its denomination, which is indeed a bad act. Of course, they're called. strategic sectors for a country in which the Treasury or the Polish government - and therefore citizens - should have their share, should have control over these sectors, while the pursuit of nationalisation of the economy is not a good direction. This is the direction from which we decided, at least in theory, to leave in 1989 and in the following years. So we really pay attention to the fact that today we need to approach this in a systematic way, and we encourage a systematic debate about what it looks like, how the whole market of the Treasury companies is shaping. I understand that this may not necessarily be in the interests of large parties, which must encourage something, tempt their activists, those who will volunteer for the party so that it can get a good result in the election. Somewhere later these people need to be installed. On the other hand, Kukiz15 calls for a departure from such a model of state ownership. So many general remarks as an introduction. On the other hand, as regards the concrete arrangements for this law, this is the second project, which is a reflection on the original project adopted by the Law and Justice in 2016. Turns out not all your proposals were good. It turned out that the market, the cleverness of individual members of supervisory boards, boards or others, that the human factor and its cleverness simply surpasses your predictions, which is why there is a need for this revision. The amendment contains a number of provisions which are more specific in nature. It is therefore difficult to assess negatively the specific substantive provisions that they clarify. On the other hand, we keep in mind that the way in which State Treasury companies operate is not at all the best. For this reason, as I said, we are calling for a serious debate on what the whole sector of the Treasury is looking like. It seems that many of these companies, which today are considered to be companies of the State Treasury or companies with the State Treasury, could actually operate freely on the free market and perhaps achieve even better results over time. We would like to draw attention to this - here just a positive assessment - that this law specifically clarifies that employees' representatives are also expected to enter the supervisory boards. In other words, the interests of employees are to be represented not only by trade unions, which are provided at the statutory level, but also by persons who will be part of the supervisory board by the selection of employees - they will have an impact. Such persons will not be subject to as high formal requirements as for other persons performing supervisory functions in companies. This is a good solution, as well as solutions in terms of trading shares or exercising rights from shares. This is a series of very complicated, detailed rules that are hard to argue with and hard to deny. But I would very much like these little positive changes not to overshadow us, not to create such a vision that it's okay, we don't have to change anything, and that [[♪ The bell ♪]] The whole system's working fine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u35	Thank you. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak made his speech on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats in writing. I would therefore invite Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz to the speakerium, who will present his position on behalf of the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u36	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I am pleased to present the position of the modern club on the government draft law amending the law on the rules governing the management of state property and some other laws. I can say this: the less politics in the economy, the better. Therefore, if the Law and Justice want companies of the Treasury to be better managed, this is one way - they need to be privatized. It seems that the experience of the last 3 years, when the number of Misiewiczs in the companies of the State Treasury has probably exceeded the number of employees, and we have heard more and more about various kinds of issues, tenders that have been set up, situations in which billions of purchases have been made, bypassing the Public Procurement Act and making tenders, all of this means that, in fact, in a good case, the only way is to refrain from taking over other companies by the State. This bill is intended to serve, among others. So that the Prime Minister can buy shares of different companies. This is the way to nowhere. This is the way for the Polish economy, instead of moving forward, to go backwards when it comes to governance. If I were to assess this law positively, perhaps it is positive to make changes that allow a category of companies operating in accordance with the rules of foreign law. This is, let's say, a change that seems right. On the other hand, arming the Prime Minister with additional powers to manage companies of the State Treasury, including the fact that he determines the operating principles of these companies, this is already a picture of the 1970s, when the First Secretary of the Polish United Workers' Party decided everything. He decided what foreign policy, internal policy and economic policy should look like. He was the one who decided who was to be president of one company or another, or some kind of union. Recent events show that Law and Justice unfortunately makes real use of the possibility of influence on the company of the Treasury. I would like to draw attention to the already famous foundation - the Polish National Foundation, in which it was this political control that companies and their presidents were forced to act at their own harm and transfer money to the unknown, because the Polish National Foundation spends money of these companies without limitation and without any control. Another example of how you manage companies of the State Treasury is the recent Silver scandal when the President of the State Bank arrives on the phone and, on very preferential terms, arranges credit for a company that has no credit standing for a good cause. This is even paranoid. If this is what the Polish economy is going to look like under the influence of Law and Justice, then I am really very worried. All this shows that increasing competence in the supervision of companies of the Treasury by politicians is a way to nowhere. We must oppose this type of action. Companies should operate on a market basis. It can't be that on a party order you spend money, you run a company from the back seat. And so on a good case, the CEOs are based in these companies only for this reason, and the order of them is that money is transferred for different purposes, most often for party purposes. Therefore, the Modern Club will vote against this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u37	Thank you very much, sir. We proceed to ask questions at this point. Would any of your messengers and your fellow Members still want to be on the list? I see that the Member is on his way here to enlist. You're welcome. I will close the list after you sign up. Time - 1 minute. We begin by asking Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u38	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Does the clarification of the supervisory tasks of the President of the Council of Ministers of State Treasury companies involve transfers, increases or reductions in employment in government administrations? Should the changes be made in such a way as not to increase administrative costs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u39	Thank you. Maria Małgorzata Janyska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, will ask another question. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u40	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the representatives of the applicants. Will the Capital Investment Fund also be able to take over management functions in private companies, i.e. de facto it will be a tool for possible nationalisation? If the answer is no, please indicate a specific entry in this project, which will be a fuse when it comes to these types of temptations or situations. Because this project, in which this fund is invoked, is particularly dangerous if it is confronted with another draft law, which has already been approved by the Council of Ministers, namely the Act on liability of collective entities. Please, these two laws in confrontation with each other, after analysis, clearly indicate that this fund can serve for this purpose: it can be used to include shares and shares in private companies which will be weakened in prosecution proceedings, will be led, forced to sell, to dispose of part of their shares, and perhaps even disappear, to cease their business activities. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u41	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Richard Wilczyński, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, to ask another question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u42	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Art. Paragraph 7 2 provides that the President of the Council of Ministers may lay down the rules for the supervision of the owner to entities entitled to exercise the rights of shares belonging to the Treasury. Against this background, the question arises. Why is it only possible to define and not to specify? Secondly, were there no such rules at all? And if so, what exactly is going on here? What are the rules? Is there a speech here? I'd ask you to quote some kind of set, some examples. This article, as well as those paragraphs, shall also mention good practices, which may be defined by the President of the Council of Ministers. The question is, what good practices we're talking about, because I'm starting to get a little scared. The President of the Council of Ministers recently showed a fascination with good practices, in quotes, prevailing in the company Silver. Perhaps the Minister would be kind. [[♪ The bell ♪]] pass, quote, give an example of some good practice that comes into play here? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u43	Thank you, sir. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u44	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The Capital Investment Fund is such a good institution to take over private companies and make them state. I have a question: Are there any indications which companies will be the victims of this fund's activities, and as far as these companies are concerned, do you also provide for the possible purchase of media companies? Because we know that action to take over the media is one of the priorities of Law and Justice. Do you also anticipate this kind of action? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u45	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u46	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The bill under investigation is another law for the development of its Pisiewicz. The establishment of another State special-purpose fund - Capital Investment Fund is assumed. I wanted to ask you what the planned cost of running this fund is and how many employees will be employed. You want the President of the Council of Ministers to be the manager of this fund again. Aren't you putting too much pressure on Prime Minister Morawiecki, and doesn't the Minister fear that this oversight will be weakened due to his many responsibilities? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u47	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Pomaska, Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition, will ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u48	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! First of all, I wanted to ask if there's a minister in the court who's going to answer... [[Because it wasn't at first.]] He wasn't there at first, but I understand there's someone, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u49	There is and listens to the question, Commissioner, ask it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u50	Minister! Then there's a question for you. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The vice-president of the party of Minister Gowin Karol Rabenda is the President of the State Company of the International Guarantee Corporation. According to the editor Katka in the Wyborcza Newspaper. Tri-city, he makes 9,000. zł and he doesn't have to show up at the office. According to the existing provisions of the Act, Mr Rabenda should not be the President of the managed company at all. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 22 of the current law is written, in the part concerning requirements for members of management bodies, that a member of the management body of the company cannot be a member of the body of a political party representing the political party outside and is entitled to make commitments. However, the Act does not provide for sanctions for breaching this provision. Minister, is this amendment going to solve this problem? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u51	Thank you. Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz club15, another question at this point. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u52	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We're talking about Treasury companies. I think it's worth it for citizens to know how many of these companies there are. Therefore, Minister, I ask you this question: How many companies of the Treasury or companies in which the Treasury has its shares? If you do not have such information at this time, please send it in writing. Thank you. [[29.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u53	Thank you. And the last question at this point will be asked by Mr Zdzisław Gawlik, the Civic Platform Club - the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u54	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have two questions. First of all, what justifies multiplying the operating costs of the Treasury companies? And my question is that the chairman of the Company Council and the members of the Board not only receive monthly salaries, but also reimbursement of travel expenses, accommodation etc. Please note that this type of burden in companies has only emerged with access to the rule of law and justice. Neither the 1934 Commercial Code nor the successor Commercial Code contained provisions of this type which gave an opportunity to provide additional benefits to persons who were members of supervisory authorities. Today we have another structure, which is another burden on the functioning of state property. And question two. Will a private entrepreneur be able to count on any State aid today? Are there any funds dedicated to private entrepreneurs? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Until now, it has been the Fund for the Restructuring of Entrepreneurs. You are consistently liquidating this fund, even though, as you can see from the provisions of this provision, there is still money which is the result of past management to help these entrepreneurs. The intention, I have the impression, is to eliminate and weaken private entrepreneurs, and with this money, the famous 2 billion, it leads to nationalization of the economy. Are there any tools to help entrepreneurs and will you leave anything behind after half this year? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u55	Thank you for asking. The Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, Mr Paweł Szrot, will answer this question and the previous questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u56	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to thank the ladies and gentlemen for their very energetic and active work in the committee. We have managed to improve the submission in agreement with the Legal Office of the Sejm. It was an ant job I wanted to thank you for. With regard to the opinion, the positions that have been put forward here in the debate, I would first of all like to point out that this shows a fundamental ideological dispute. Law and Justice, which is the political basis of the government, has always indicated that the State should act actively in the economy and in the market also in the field of economic operators. And with the ladies and gentlemen of the PO-KO Parliamentary Club, the Modern, also Kukiz.15 here we fundamentally disagree. We believe that the state should be active in the economy, should also intervene in the company market, and that is the policy we will pursue. As regards the specific questions that have been asked both in the debate and in the context of the parliamentary questions, Mr Gawlik asked both in the debate and in the context of the questions about the restructuring fund. Mr President - I do not see the Member, I do not see the Member, I see the Member, I return the honour, you are present - the restructuring fund has not been in place since 1 January 2017. These revenues, which will be generated by the Capital Investment Fund and which are related to the restructuring fund, relate only to public aid refunds. Maybe I will answer questions in turn, because most Members in the debate have presented some general positions to which I have already addressed in general. Mr Pyzik asked if the costs of functioning of the state administration would increase. Mr President, these costs will not increase both within the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, which will carry out tasks for the President of the Council of Ministers concerning ownership supervision as well as within BGK, which will serve the Capital Investment Fund. These costs will not increase. Ms Janyska asked whether the Capital Investment Fund could be used to acquire shares of companies. Of course it can serve, it is created for that purpose. This will be applied in an intervening manner, as necessary. She presented a rather curiosity scenario: that companies will be under pressure. I can't even imagine and analyze it right now. Madam President, the fund will serve to implement an active state policy on the company market and I confirm that it will be used for the acquisition of shares. Mr Wilczyński from the PO-KO Parliamentary Club asked why there is only an optional right for the President of the Council of Ministers to issue documents on the rules of ownership supervision. Mr Szydło, perhaps this is optional, but referring on an ongoing basis to your second question, in September 2017, Prime Minister Beata Szydło issued such rules also on the basis of an optional provision. She didn't have to do it, she spent it. Of course, these rules, I can declare, will be issued because they are needed and should be implemented. As regards good practice for companies, I would just like to clarify that these good practices will concern sponsorship, e.g. the sponsorship activities of the companies and will include guidelines for financial statements. Mr Meysztowicz from the parliamentary club The modern question was which companies would be purchased from the Capital Investment Fund. Mr President, those companies in which the acquisition of shares will be justified, necessary and necessary from the point of view of the national economy. That's all I can say right now. In any such situation, the Prime Minister will not hesitate and will use these measures to actively intervene in specific companies. Mrs Navel from the PO-KO Parliamentary Club asked about the costs of the Capital Investment Fund. The operation of this fund will be BGK, so we do not expect there to be any significant increase in costs. According to the declarations, BGK should deal with these questions on a regular basis. Ms Agnieszka Pomaska asked about a specific situation of the company called the International Guarantee Corporation. Madame, these rules have been in force for a long time, not only on the basis of this law but also on the basis of the Commercialisation and Privatisation Act. The case is both in that law and in this law in the submission, on which today the High Chamber is ready to proceed, made very clear. They shall not have the right to sit on the boards of companies of persons who are members of political parties, bodies entitled to represent that party outside and to take financial commitments. It's been kept for years, and it doesn't change. And please accept these explanations. Mr Grabowski from the Kukiz parliamentary club15 asked how many companies are covered by this regulation. Now, Mr President, I can answer fairly precisely - this is about 430 companies. And now for the final question, Mr Gawlik of the PO-KO Parliamentary Club. You asked about the rules that lay down the rules for business trips for the Company Council. I wanted to stress that this is not the record we introduced - this is just a reminder - from what I remember, this committee amendment. It is merely about clarifying the powers that existed earlier. It is not that this law introduces this right. It's just a definition, a clarification. And the costs of applying this provision will not be borne by the companies, but will be borne by the state budget. [[State.]] Of course, the Member, the Professor, realises that on a budget scale it will be a small amount. As far as the question about the restructuring fund is concerned, I have already answered the rapporteur. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Please accept my explanations. I also ask for the support of the submitted project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u57	Thank you, Minister. Three requests for correction were made following your statement. Let me just remind you that correction is possible in case of misunderstood or misconception. Mr Zdzisław Gawlik, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, will therefore be the first to speak. Time - 1 minute. Please keep in mind the content of this rule book. So we are referring only to such issues. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u58	Mrs. Marshal! I'll try to make amends. Minister! I'll leave the rest to the Enterprise Restructuring Fund. I'm asking pretty clearly, I think. This law states that the funds that have been used in the past - someone has used them for certain purposes, giving a chance to a private entrepreneur, how needed help to benefit from this aid - today they are returned because it was a form of loan, etc. Different tools were used at the time. So this money is in space. That someone made a decision, forgetting that someone in the past was a public penny. Reasonably managed, that's basically secondary also - the fact that someone did not remember this, preparing a law in 2016. Today's mom's money. And I'm asking you what's in return. Because today those private entrepreneurs who have used this money in the past, as their situation has improved, return it. Today, you're taking this money and it's gone because you don't need private money. [[♪ The bell ♪]] private is also unnecessary help, because we assume that we have 2 billion and if the loop gets to the private, we will simply take over for these 2 billion. That's the concept of this law, it comes from it. And I'm asking you...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u59	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u60	...or today the government has any tools to help this private as it used to be by the end of 2016. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u61	Thank you, sir. And another corrigendum - Maria Małgorzata Janyska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u62	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to correct it here because I'm sure the Minister misunderstood part of my speech, and that's why he called it a little bit curial, because I think if he understood it, that wouldn't be the term. Dear Minister, In the light of the law which I had previously cited, the liability of the collective entities of the prosecutor will be able to carry out proceedings during which he will already be able to apply the harsh so-called. remedies that may lead to a loss of current liquidity may result in the company's collapse. And this is the scenario, sir, and in confrontation with the fact that the prosecutor is a minister, he is subject to the government, and you said that the government wants to conduct a very active economic policy, without, of course, denying the possibility of entering into the management of private companies by taking their shares and shares, the way for me is simple and obvious. This Capital Investment Fund [[♪ The bell ♪]] The law provided for in that law will support the application of that law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u63	Ms Agnieszka Pomaska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, has also tabled a corrigendum. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u64	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, you didn't understand. I know what the record is in this bill, and I know what it's supposed to be. I asked what to do in a situation where the president or deputy, the vice-president of the political party, sits on the board of directors of the company, is the president of the company. Exactly what I was talking about was the president of the International Guarantee Corporation. Mr Karol Rabenda is the president of this company and is also the vice-president of Mr Gowin's party, party of the Agreement. The taste of the whole matter is also added by the fact that this company falls under Minister Emilewicz and Minister Emilewicz is the vice-president of the Agreement party. What to do when the law is not respected in these companies? Is it the only way to file a complaint with the D.A.'s office? Are you going to try to deal with this on your own, or are you just hoping for the favor of D.A. Ziobra? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u65	I understand that Minister Paweł Szrot wants to respond to these comments. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: If I may ask.]] The Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, Mr Paweł Szrot, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u66	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, One at a time. I'm answering the question, the specific question, maybe yes. Let's call it Mr Gawlik. Mr President, as far as these public aid refunds are concerned, if there were no provision that we are introducing in this law and the transfer of these funds to the Capital Investment Fund, these funds would go back to the budget. In this situation, however, they will be aimed at financing similar actions, similar to those we had in the case of the restructuring fund. With regard to the instruments that the government has to support companies, of course we have at the moment the support provided by BGK, we also have PFR. This bill, on the other hand, is the submission that the High House is working on today, gives a concrete, measurable, important and very strong instrument. It is needed to implement government policies. As regards the question that Mrs Janyska has clarified, I would like to say, firstly, that it is not the intention of the government to take over companies which are subject to prosecution. It would argue with the intentions of this bill. I would also like to point out that those safeguard measures which you spoke about, in accordance with the collective liability law, contrary to what you have said, will not be applied by the prosecutor but will be approved by the court. In my opinion, there is an additional condition for the objectivity of the measures. And one last question from Mrs Pomaska. Madame, we have analysed this situation. This is absolutely legal. These persons are not included in the catalogue of persons who are excluded from the exercise of their functions in management bodies because they are not entitled to represent outside and to enter into financial commitments. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Shame!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u67	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u68	High Seym! Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I will present my position on the report of the committee on the government bill amending the law on the rules governing the management of state property and some other laws. The project includes an extension of the Prime Minister's competence in the management of companies of the Treasury. It is Prime Minister Morawiecki who will supervise most of the property of the State Treasury and take full responsibility for it. The scope of the cases in which the Prime Minister approves, in companies of major importance to the state economy, the voting instructions drawn up by the entity entitled to exercise the rights of shares belonging to the Treasury or the State legal person has been extended. The amendment confers a general competence on the Prime Minister to acquire shares on behalf of the Treasury. The Head of Government has been given the opportunity to request information concerning the exercise of the powers of the State Treasury in companies and the activities of companies with the participation of the State Treasury by all authorities or entities which exercise the rights of shares of the State Treasury. HR policy in companies of the State Treasury has been criticised for a long time. The best example is a stud in Janów Podlaski, which was destroyed by the PiS government. Income breeding, the brand known around the world has been virtually eliminated by wrong personal decisions and inefficient staff. More attention should be paid to strategic investments, to multi-annual planning, not to decisions, so that one or another minister decides to appoint a company president. More planning, more analyses, and less staff residence, although the Human Resources Act a la PiS is the standard for the current term. The PSL-UED Club will not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u69	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Commission for Energy and the Treasury in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: the report of the Extraordinary Commission on the Senate draft law amending the Law on Criminal Enforcement Code (Prints No 3028 and 3129). Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz will present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u70	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I present a report by the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications in the case of the Senate draft law amending the Penal Code Act. The draft concerns the alignment of the system of law with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 22 March 2017, sygn. SK 13/14, declaring non-compliance with Article. 204 § 1 and 2 of the Implementing Penal Code in conjunction with Article. 22 § 1 of the implementing criminal code. Based on constitutional models, above all on art. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Constitution, but also Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3. It is about the right to court and the principle of proportionality, the Constitutional Tribunal considered that these two provisions of the Enforcement Penal Code cited by me are non-constitutional. It's, High Izbo, the so-called. meetings concerning the continued presence of the perpetrator in a psychiatric hospital. Until now, the court simply had no obligation to inform the perpetrator. Nor was he obliged to bring the perpetrator to such a meeting. It was more or less so that the prosecutor and the public defender were usually involved in such a meeting. There have been opinions of two psychiatrists, whether or not the perpetrator's further stay with this protective measure is desirable. It is about his health, but it is also about whether or not he poses a threat to the legal order. In this situation, the Constitutional Tribunal has rightly concluded that these two provisions are Article. 204 § 1 in conjunction with Article. 22 § 1 of the Enforcement Penal Code, are non-constitutional. The Senate since 2007 has been involved in the so-called 'Senate' initiative. the judgment - the execution of judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal - started this procedure in February 2018. Interested parties, i.e. the National Judicial Council and the Public Prosecutor's Office, of course, issued opinions that were positive, as in principle the opinion of the Ombudsman, only the Ombudsman proposed that these meetings be held in psychiatric hospitals. Maybe I'll remind you a few more statistical facts so you can imagine the scale of the problems. At the end of 2017, according to information provided by the Ministry of Justice, the perpetrators concerned by such proceedings were 1092, in 2016,544. We don't, at least I don't have any information... Maybe it's 2018 data. Minister Marcin Warchoł will present it. In Poland, we have 54 psychiatric establishments designed to carry out a protective measure, including 34 establishments with basic security conditions, 17 with enhanced security conditions and 3 with maximum security conditions. During the first reading in the Senate, some conclusions, requests from the Ministry of Justice, were also considered. First of all, the Ministry considered that it should be stipulated that the view that the perpetrator's presence in a session extending psychiatric internment could only occur exceptionally, if necessary due to his medical condition. Provision should be made to allow the court to consult psychiatrist experts on whether the perpetrator's participation in this court hearing is desirable, necessary or not. Of course, the transport costs of the perpetrator for such a meeting are also at stake. There are some average distances calculated here. As far as district courts are concerned, the average distance is 15 km, transport takes up to 1 hour, access to district courts is 50 km, which is also, of course, transport costs. And now the question is who's gonna pay for it. That is the cost to be borne by the head of the mental institution. At first reading, the Senate took these comments into account by the Minister of Justice and accepted them. Later meetings of the Senate Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions were held on 15 June and 19 September 2018. There is also a provision on what court is competent here. It has been established that there is a competent court in the district in which the perpetrator is present, which is a court of the same order as the court which delivered the judgment at first instance. Thus, if, at first instance, he has delivered a judgment by a regional court, he is also competent for this further procedure to extend his appointment to a psychiatric hospital. The Minister of Justice's comments on the fact that there should, of course, be psychiatric opinions are also introduced in this project, the point being that the health status of the perpetrator and progress in treatment are essential to demonstrate whether or not a further stay is really necessary, as well as the provision that experts are to comment on whether the health status of the perpetrator permits participation in this meeting. This, of course, depends on certain psychiatric or intellectual limitations of these perpetrators. The Senate adopted this proposal at its meeting on 26 October 2018 and was sent to the Sejm for first reading in plenary on 30 October 2018. The draft was later referred to the committee responsible, the Extraordinary Commission for changes in codification. It was December 7, 2018. The Commission addressed this issue at its meeting on 17 January. Unfortunately, the authorised Senate representative did not attend this meeting, and today I do not see the Senate representative of Senator Rafał Ambrozik either. Then, at this meeting of the NKK committee on 17 January, one of the Members introduced an amendment extending this proposal to amend the provision of the Code of Criminal Procedure, namely Article. 618fa so that, in exceptional cases, the procedural authority may decide to pay the expert before drawing up an opinion, once or in instalments, a certain amount of money against remuneration, where justified by the particular time-consuming nature of the activities necessary to deliver the opinion or other specific circumstances. This provision did not deserve to be complained about the payment of this as if an advance on remuneration and despite the comments of the Legislative Office that this was in breach of the principle of correct legislation, since at this stage of the procedure the project was already after first reading, otherwise the subject of the Senate's judicial initiative, and here an additional provision of the Code of Criminal Procedure is introduced, the amendment was introduced by a majority. As rapporteur on behalf of the committee, I recommend to the High House that this draft be adopted, it can be said that the Senate-Messenger in print No 3129. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u71	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. And Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first to perform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u72	High Izbo! Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I would like to say that I will no longer repeat all these issues relating to the project, which I have discussed in detail in the report. The Law and Justice Club supports this project, but wants to introduce an amendment to it, namely to remove it from the scope of § 2, the one who says that the decision on payment of the remuneration shall not be entitled to a complaint. The amendment deletes this entry as incorrect, on the one hand because it duplicated the provision on the components of the advance provision, repeating for § 1, that the advance may be granted in instalments and within a specified period, which results from the substance of the instalments, and on the other hand § 2 could be interpreted as partially contrary to § 1, since it literally indicated that by applying § 1, the Authority can only decide on the rescue method for granting the advance as an amount and specify, in how many instalments. At the same time, the amendment corrects the content of § 3, indicating that the complaint is neither entitled to a positive provision on the advance or to a negative provision in this respect. Leaving the wording of this paragraph to date would result in a complaint against an order refusing to grant an advance, without taking into account the expert's request for an advance, which, in the event of an expert's appeal, could significantly extend the criminal proceedings, i.e. in fact, have the opposite effect to the one requested by the amendment. High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I submit this amendment to your marshal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u73	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Arkadiusz Myrcha, who was to appear on behalf of the Civic Platform-Citizen Coalition Club, I do not see in the plenary room. In that case, I invite Mr Paweł Grabowski, who will present his position on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u74	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Mr. or Madam Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Poselski Kukiz Club15 in relation to the Senate draft law amending the Penal Code Act. This proposal involves changes in the rules governing participation in the proceedings of persons who are subject to mental health treatment or have been addressed to psychiatric establishments. In these circumstances, these arrangements are justified because the changes whereby a person who has been placed in such an establishment would be subject to the jurisdiction of the court which originally sentenced it or indicated the inclusion of it, more precisely, in a closed facility, may give rise to unnecessary costs. So if such a man is placed in a given establishment within the jurisdiction of the court concerned, then any enforcement proceedings should be conducted before that court. That's one thing. Secondly, it is a good change to allow people to participate, of course, if their state of health and mental condition justify it, to participate in such enforcement proceedings before a court. So here it is leaning over it and implementing the principle of participation, the right to participate, as well as the right to defend persons who are defendants in criminal proceedings. Thus, in this case these are rational solutions, and in this case the Kukiz Club is in favour of further proceding this draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u75	Thank you, sir. And I invite Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, who will present his position on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u76	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I would like to present our position on the report of the committee on the Senate draft law amending the Law on Criminal Enforcement Code, print Nos 3028 and 3129. The aim of this proposal is to bring the system of law into line with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 22 March 2017 declaring the non-compliance of the Article. 204 law Penal Code implementing the Constitution. The Constitutional Tribunal held that the provisions of the Enforcement Code, in so far as they do not provide for the right of personal participation of the perpetrator to whom a safeguard measure is applied consisting of the placing in a closed mental institution, in a court meeting on the further application of that measure, are incompatible with the Constitution. The ruling of the tribunal has entered into force and already persons in psychiatric institutions may demand that their right to be heard be taken into account. However, it should be noted that it is now decided by the court which issued the judgment at first instance to continue to apply the safeguard measure, which is often far from where the perpetrator is present. In order to comply with the judgment of the Tribunal, a standard should be adopted which will re-establish the jurisdiction of the court, which will rule on the further need for the perpetrator to reside in a mental institution. During his work on the project, the Ombudsman sought to allow the court to meet in a mental institution, indicating that such a solution is justified for reasons of reasonableness, purpose and cost-effectiveness in the disposal of public funds. However, this proposal did not meet with the understanding of the designers. The Ombudsman pointed out that the organisation of a police convoy for designated perpetrators to the courts could have a negative impact on the security of all citizens, as these tasks will be carried out by police officers who are currently performing other duties. It is not without significance that these convoys can be quite large given the number of people in detention and the fact that the need for further stay in the establishment is verified every 6 months. This would also be beneficial for patients whose transport involves using direct coercion measures against them. An amendment to the draft was adopted in committee, whereby, in exceptional cases, the procedural authority may decide to pay the expert before drawing up an opinion, once or in instalments, a certain amount of money for remuneration, if justified by the particular time-consuming nature of the action necessary to deliver an opinion or other specific circumstances. This amendment concerns a situation in which the time-consuming work actually results in a high level of involvement of the expert and he does not receive any fees. Therefore, this proposal will in many cases give the expert a chance to finish his work early and receive a salary before giving his opinion. High Izbo! In the course of further work on the project, consideration should be given to and examination of the possibility of introducing the possibility of court meetings at the place of the defendants' detention, i.e. in psychiatric institutions. Regardless of any suggestions or shortcomings that the project contains, however, to a small extent, the Polish People's Party Club - the European Union of Democrats is in favour of this regulation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u77	Thank you, sir. The position of the Modern Club will be presented to Monika Rosa. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u78	Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! The draft law concerns the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 22 March 2017. The expected effect of the law will be to ensure that perpetrators who are subject to a safeguard measure are placed in a closed mental institution, that they have the right to be heard by the court and that they have the right to a fair and transparent settlement of the case. In the course of the work on the Law, the Ombudsman proposed two other solutions. Firstly, he proposed to introduce a solution to the project that would enable the court to sit in a mental institution. Such a solution would be less costly than the transport of the perpetrator to court and would eliminate the need to put handcuffs on patients as a preventive measure that does not benefit the health and treatment process of interned patients. The Ombudsman also pointed out that the same procedure for a court to extend its stay at a treatment centre is in the law on dealing with persons with mental disorders that pose a threat to the life, health or sexual freedom of others. Therefore, the right to be heard by a court in an extension procedure should also be guaranteed to patients of the National Centre for the Prevention of Dissocial conduct in Gostynin. These two very important comments by the Ombudsman were unfortunately not taken into account in the bill under examination. An amendment was tabled at the Extraordinary Commission meeting, which was in fact correct, but raised procedural doubts as to the validity of the legislative procedure at this stage. In this respect, I would also ask the rapporteur to refer to the discussion that took place at the committee meeting concerning not the content of the amendment itself, but precisely whether it is in line with the legislative correctness at this stage of the process. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u79	Thank you. On behalf of the Civic Platform-Citizen Coalition Club, Mr Arkadiusz Myrch will also speak and present the position of this club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u80	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, I would like to express my position on the draft law in print No 3028, which provides for the amendment of the implementing criminal code and the adaptation of it to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 22 March 2017. During our work so far, we did not comment on the bill. We have indicated its validity, for example, in order to ensure the presence of the sentenced person during the sitting. We will submit three more amendments for this. On the other hand, I would like to raise a point which, in our view, has damaged this, as I have said, a good project which has gained the support of all political forces, which nevertheless represents a rare occurrence in Parliament. Namely, during work in the committee, a large regulation was submitted, which was included in the article. 2 of this project, the object of which does not really fit in any way in the original submission and, even worse, does not fall within the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of March 2017. During the committee's work, this was the subject of a turbulent debate, as the representatives of the Ministry present at the meeting, also present at this meeting, pointed out clearly that this added regulation on the remuneration of experts was in fact a sure benefit of the occasion. A project is being examined, which generally brings up the subject of experts, and since the topic for the Ministry is quite pressing, it was decided to add this regulation and take advantage of this opportunity. This, of course, interferes with and contradicts the principles of correct legislation, as the current project goes substantially beyond the original proposal. Of course, it also met with criticism of lawyers from the Legislative Office, who said that if the Ministry wants to submit a new regulation to such a large extent, it must be done on the basis of a new bill. I'm saying this with great regret. The project, as I mentioned, which did not raise any doubts As to the legitimacy of the way in which he acted, he was suddenly quite heavily burdened with a legislative defect. We therefore make three amendments. One is of a legislative nature. The second goes against these reservations, which were already mentioned by my previous speakers and raised by the Ombudsman, namely that a hearing involving the perpetrator could be held in a mental institution. We also make an amendment to the deletion from the draft Article Law. 2 - with this justification, as I pointed out, this should be the subject of a separate regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u81	Thank you, sir. Let's get to the questions. Would any of your messengers and your fellow Members still want to be on the list? I can't hear you. So I close the list. We begin asking questions at this point from Mr Piotr Pyzik, the Law and Justice. Time - 1 minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u82	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The problem is not only legal. When dealing with the issue of isolated persons who are undergoing psychiatric treatment, it is necessary to remind people placed on the so-called. observations in court proceedings. Some of them have spent several, several years in closed facilities without a judgment extended to infinity of observation. Media examples, taken from press sources: Mr Feliks Meshka - 11 years in Rybnik; today, Mr Krystian Broll - 8 years old, also in Rybnik. By the way, he didn't get compensation. Maybe if your court had the opportunity to see them every six months when the word for word copyed the justification for extending the observation, someone would have moved their conscience? Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u83	Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u84	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This law brings the system of law into line with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, but I ask: Why is it so late? The judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal was delivered on 22 March 2017, and now it is February 2019. It's a pretty long delay. It is good that this law extends the powers of the sentenced person in terms of a fair trial, but it is nevertheless important to take into account that court meetings are held in psychiatric institutions. I'm sure it'll definitely be less expensive. I have another question: will the article be deleted in the course of further proceedings over this law. Two? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u85	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u86	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question: What kind of savings can we talk about specifically? What would be the cost of the transport of persons for treatment in closed facilities to be transported to the courts where the meeting would take place according to the old arrangements, i.e. where the person was convicted or a decision was given against him to refer him to such an establishment? What savings can we talk about? That's one thing. Secondly, in relation to Mrs Pępek's question, in my view of the right one, do you foresee whether you have consulted, in particular with the judicial community, the possibility that these meetings simply take place on the premises of psychiatric establishments, so as to facilitate, speed up, improve, but also ensure low costs and the smooth functioning of the justice system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u87	This question and previous questions will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u88	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for all your questions. I'll start by asking you about the deadline. Namely: the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal actually dates back to 2017, but if we trace the scope of the OSRs to the bill, we will trace the number of consultations we have conducted, the analyses we have carried out... It's obvious that this kind of change doesn't happen overnight. First of all, the number of perpetrators to whom a protective measure in the form of a stay in a psychiatric institution is enforceable had to be checked. We have such data: in terms of district courts, in 2017 it is the number of 906 perpetrators, and in district courts it is 186. The project also had to be consulted with the Prison Service, with the Police, with a whole range of services involved in the delivery, in the organisation of the entire infrastructure involved in transporting the perpetrator to the court. The numbers you've been asking about. The transportation costs will be borne by... Of course, in this case they will amount to 540 thousand. zł per year, there are no police costs, which according to data will be small. Each of the perpetrators will be brought to court twice a year, resulting in an amount of about PLN 4368. 83% meetings will take place in the district court and 17% will be held - at the county courthouse. The average journey between the penal facility and the district court is 15 km, and between the criminal centre and the district court - about 50 km, transport takes about 2 hours. The cost of transport is PLN 150 per hour and PLN 3.5 per kilometer. We had to obtain these calculations, ladies and gentlemen, and so it lasted - I do not think long - from mid-2017 until today. This is not in relation to many other judgments that are executed, some terribly long time. It seems that these are the answers to all doubts. Mr Myrcha asked for an advance on the work of experts: experts play a key role, not only here, but also in a number of other processes where mental health is assessed. They judge the judgment of the perpetrators, their deeds, and their conduct. Expert opinions have a huge impact on the final outcome of the proceedings, on the speed of the trial and on the relevance of decisions taken by the court. [[I was talking about something else.]] Therefore, Mr President, these experts also need a certain motivator... [[But I was talking about something else.]] ...and there's no better motivator than just an advance on that salary. [[But I was talking about something else, Minister.]] That's why... In the meantime, this bill is intended to ensure both the perpetrator's participation in this kind of meeting... Of course, the Member asked about the scope of the submission. This is absolutely consistent with the scope of the submission, and I would like to make this clear, because the proposal also concerns an opinion on the further detection of such a perpetrator in a closed facility, in a psychiatric institution, and, after all, this opinion is based on the participation of experts. So that experts do a lot of work, they are often pulled away from their responsibilities, a whole range of responsibilities, and they have to carry out this type of research within a period of time, analyzing and pre-financing is certainly intended to encourage them to do this type of activity. It is adopted in many other legal systems, including abroad. We've been doing some analysis, and it's really working, and it's speeding up the work of experts, and it makes it possible to judge quickly. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u89	Thank you, Minister. The rapporteur of the committee, Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz, will also speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u90	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'd like to make a brief reference. As far as these costs are concerned, are these actual costs... If the meetings were in 54 psychiatric establishments, High Izbo, the rooms would have to be adapted to such meetings first. This would, of course, require some renovations, maybe expansion, adaptation, etc., which would also be costs. If it were in psychiatric facilities right now, it's the cost of commuting from the courthouse, from the D.A.'s office. Often, especially in large cities, these units are located in different parts of the city. As I put it in my report, as far as district courts are concerned, the average cost of such, the average distance I apologize, is 15 km for district courts, and as far as district courts are concerned, is 50 km. The D.A. wouldn't go with the judge because they're different units, different costs, unless there was some kind of agreement. So that's what it takes... This may be a request to be met, but not at this stage, because the costs of adapting these rooms to the appropriate conditions in 54 psychiatric institutions would have to be calculated first. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u91	Thank you. In the formula of correcting Mr Arkadiusz Myrch. You're welcome. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u92	Thank you very much. Minister, I have the impression that you misunderstood my attention and my intention. I hope you didn't have any bad intentions. I did not question the validity of good or rapid remuneration of experts. I merely pointed out that all the regulations covered by the Article. 2, otherwise, it should be the subject of a separate regulation. And that was even pointed out by the Legal Service's lawyers that the original submission was really about the perpetrator's status and the way in which the investigation was conducted. This is the focus of the Court's ruling, not on the remuneration of experts, the amount of remuneration, the time of remuneration. This is a completely sideline thread. And the mere fact that, in any small extent, the original submission concerns an expert simply as a person who is to draw up an opinion does not mean that we can add to it everything that is related to experts, and actually add to it [[♪ The bell ♪]] a regulation that has nothing to do with it. And in this respect I questioned this, pointing out that it should just be two separate items of regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u93	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, an amendment was notified to the proposed amendment, pursuant to Article. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I am sending this proposal back to the Extraordinary Commission for amendments to the codifications in order to submit a report. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: First reading of the Senate draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act (Print No 3134). Senator Andrzej Mioduszewski will present the reasons for the bill. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u94	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present to the High House the resolution adopted by the Senate at its meeting on 14 December 2018 on the submission to the Sejm of a draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure together with the draft law, print No 3134. The draft law is the implementation of the request contained in the citizens' petition submitted to the Senate of the Republic of Poland on 24 November 2017. The aim of the proposed law is to eliminate discrepancies in the way in which the calculation of procedural time limits in criminal proceedings and in civil and administrative proceedings is regulated. In the case of criminal proceedings, if the deadline for the execution of the proceedings falls on Saturday, those proceedings must be completed at the latest on that date, unless on Saturday there is one of the holidays indicated in the Act on days off from work. Then the end of the deadline for the performance of the activity will come on the next day, which is not a day off from work. On the other hand, in the case of civil and administrative proceedings, if the end of the procedural period is Saturday, that period expires on the next day, which is not a day off from work. The lack of legal harmonisation of the criminal procedure with civil and administrative treatment of Saturdays in particular procedures is not justified and requires legislative interference. The draft law that has been prepared solves this problem. The draft law provides for the introduction into the article. 123 § 3 the same solution as in civil, administrative and tax proceedings. Therefore, the draft amendment provides for a solution which will make Saturdays equal to days off from work. The last day of the deadline for Saturday will be postponed to the day following the day or days off from work. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 The act shall be defined as the standard 14-day period of vacathio legis, which shall be considered sufficient and appropriate in accordance with the standard contained in the article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 Act of 20 July 2000 on the publication of normative acts and certain other acts. The subject matter of the proposed law is not covered by European Union law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u95	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u96	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First of all, we should thank the Senate Committee on Human Rights, the Laws and Petitions for this right initiative, because these regulations, which are already in the Code of Administrative Procedure, in the Tax Order, in the Code of Civil Procedure, where the same content is amended Article. 165 § 1 c.p.c.... The question of which days are considered to be free from work is settled by the Act of 18 January 1951 on days off from work, and there are listed Sundays and holidays. It's called a problem. free Saturday has already been decided in these other laws. And it is very good that there is also this amendment of the article. 123 § 3 Code of Criminal Procedure. The Law and Justice Club supports this project. Thank you once again to the Senate Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u97	Thank you. Mr Arkadiusz Myrcha will present the position of the Civic Platform-Citizen Coalition Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u98	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, I would like to present my position on the draft law implementing the citizens' petition to the Senate on 24 November 2017 by Mr Paul Janas. As my previous speaker pointed out, the bill is fully justified. It seeks to amend the Article. 123 § 3 The Code of Criminal Procedure governing the determination of the end of the time limit laid down for the execution of a procedural action, which is relevant when the end of that period falls on a date recognised by the law as a day off work. The petition rightly calls for Saturday to be considered as a day equivalent to a day recognised by the law as a day off from work. This proposal, as well as the resulting Senate project, should be considered an initiative needed. This issue has so far only been governed by the case law of the criminal courts, which in fact replaced the lack of explicit legal regulation. This initiative is also justified by the fact that similar solutions operate in other procedures: administrative, civil. Of course, this adjustment naturally worked. It's all over there. equalizing Saturdays with days off from work. So the last day of the date on Saturday is shifted to the next day, [[♪ The bell ♪]] after a day off from work. Parliamentary Club Civic Platform - Civic Coalition asks for further investigation of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u99	Mr Paweł Grabowski will present the position of the Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u100	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 in relation to the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act. Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, it is such an obvious change that there is no controversy about this solution in the Code of Civil Procedure, Administrative Procedure or Tax Order. For this reason, there is nothing to get divorced from. One can only thank the author of this petition that he drew attention to this problem, all the more so because we are dealing with a law that regulates the criminal procedure, which has its specific and specific characteristics, because it concerns the possible deprivation or limitation of the freedom of our citizens. Therefore, if, in less vulnerable procedures, such as civil or administrative solutions or pro-citizen arrangements exist and function, the same should be the case in the criminal procedure. For this reason, the Kukiz Club15 is in favour of further proceding the project and will support it at further stages of its work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, a club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u102	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I would like to present on behalf of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats Club a position on the Senate bill amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, contained in print 3134. This project concerns the implementation of the request made in the citizens' petition P9/49/17 to the Senate to determine the end of the time limit laid down for the execution of the procedural action when the end of that period falls on a date recognised by the law as a day off from work. The calculation of terms in Polish law on the basis of various laws has always been a problem for both citizens and lawyers themselves. The rules are not detailed enough, the case law has proved divergent over time in this respect. The most problematic issue in this matter was the expiry of the deadline on Saturday, which since the 1980s has been really a day off from work in Poland. The fact that Saturday is in practice a day off from work does not, however, change the principles set out in the current Act of 1951, according to which Saturday is not a legal day off work. This has caused many problems in the calculation of time limits according to the rules applicable to particular areas of law. Some of these problems were solved by case law, although they were not uniform. The breakthrough came only in 2017, when the amendment of the Civil Code entered into force on 1 January and the amendment of the Code of Administrative Procedure on 1 June. Today is the time for the Code of Criminal Procedure, in which there is still an understatement in this regard. For example, in the order of the Supreme Court of the Criminal Chamber of 23 March 2016, we read that: Saturdays are not public holidays, but only the nature of the day in which a certain period is due to expire, causes ex lege to shift the performance of the activity to the next working day. The fact that the general courts are not in office on Saturdays in principle does not matter, as it is sufficient to send a letter before it expires in the post of the correspondence service provider in Poland or within the European Union. On the other hand, the Supreme Court took a different position in the order for a sign. II KZ 14/03, in which it stated that Saturdays are to be treated as a day recognised by the Act as a day off from work within the meaning of Article. 123 Code of Criminal Procedure. Similarly, in order II AKz 40/04, the Court of Appeal in Cracow stated that: Although the last day of the appeal was not a public day, the courts in the whole country did not work on that day - by appropriate order - the appellant could not lodge his complaint directly at the court's seat. It does not matter that some post offices were open that day, so the letter to the court could be sent by post. The bill presented today follows the line of the latter position, introducing in the Code of Criminal Procedure a solution similar to those previously introduced in the Civil Code and in the Code of Administrative Procedure. This will result in a codification of criminal and civil procedures, administrative procedures and tax procedures. The draft amendment envisages introducing a solution that will make Saturdays equal to work-free days. If the last day of the deadline falls on Saturday, it will be postponed to the day following the day or days off from work. The Polish People's Party Club - the Union of European Democrats is clearly in favour of further proceding this project and as a result accepting it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u103	Thank you, sir. On behalf of the club, Mr Mirosław Pampuch presented his speech in writing. We're going to ask questions. Would any of your messengers and your fellow Members like to be on the list? I can't see. So I'm closing the list. Before I give the floor to Mr Peter Pyzik of Law and Justice, I will welcome the students of the Primary School in Goddess. I hope you like it in the Sejm and that the impressions of staying here will be nice. In any case, this is the kind of experience I wish for both my students and their tutors at the Primary School in Godzie. [[Applause]] And now Mr Piotr Pyzik will ask the question at this point. Time - 1 minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u104	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed amendment is purely clear and, as it seems, there is virtually no point in discussing it. That would be discussing the obvious. However, we are dealing with a broad revision of criminal law in this case. Since the beginning of this parliamentary term, we have made at least a dozen changes in this area. However, to this day none of them concerned the elimination from the Penal Code of the Marxist regime of art. 212. So I ask: Isn't it time for the libel disputes to be dealt with solely by civil proceedings? The role of the state is not to pursue or punish words. The role of the state is to resolve disputes over these words. Thank you. [[Mr. President would disagree here.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u105	Although this question does not concern the draft law, I ask that the Minister of Justice Marcin Warchoł answer it. Although I do not know if the Minister will answer this question, because it does not concern the project. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: No, I might say this in general.]] I understand that about the bill, about the project. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u106	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I'll be brief on the project. Namely, the project simply solves practical problems. Very often, on a Saturday customarily accepted as a day off, people sent letters, took certain procedural steps, and it turned out that they did so on time. Therefore, this project is simply a very necessary pro-Citizen project. That is what we said today: it compensates, not just from a Juridic point of view, certain solutions that occurred in the administrative procedure, in the civil procedure, and, by some strange coincidence, the criminal procedure was looking forward to them. Thanks to this senate initiative, for which I thank you very much, we are dealing with a level playing field at the jurisdictional level. It is also a great help to ordinary people who often failed to meet the deadlines which affected different kinds of adverse effects as a result of their being convinced that they could take certain actions, using Saturday as a day off, and doing so in good faith. So that the project deserves the support of all means. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u107	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u108	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Poselski Club I am pleased to present the position of the club regarding the Senate draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, print no.3134. The draft submitted regulates the determination of the end of the time limit laid down for the execution of the procedural action and leads to Saturday being considered as a day equivalent to the date recognised by the law as a day off from work. This project is the answer to the citizens' petition brought to the Senate by Mr Paul Janas. Currently, in criminal proceedings, the issue of the end of the deadline for Saturday is regulated differently than in civil, administrative and judicial proceedings. Consequently, the so-called. free Saturdays shall be the subject of a dispute. The Law amending the Labour Code adopted on 1 March 2001 introduced the statutory concept of a 5-day working week and resigned from the work-free Saturdays. This was also highlighted by the subsequent Supreme Court orders. For this reason, the Civil Code, the Code of Administrative Procedure, the Law of Procedure before administrative courts and the Tax Order included Saturday in a separate way and aligned it with days off from work. The lack of a uniform approach to the issue of free Saturdays is not justified. Therefore, the proposed proposal provides for a solution which will result in Saturdays in criminal proceedings being equaled to days off from work and consequently the last day on Saturday will be postponed to the day after the day or days off from work. There is no doubt that the substance of the proposal submitted will result in Members of Modern Members voting in favour of referring them to further work in committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u109	Marshal of the Sejm, based on art. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, he directs the Senate's draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, contained in print No. 3134, to the Extraordinary Commission for Changes in Codifications for consideration. We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: First reading of the Senate draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act (Print No 3193). Senator Zbigniew Cichoń will present the reasons for the bill. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u110	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft adopted by the Senate seeks to comply with the judgment of the Constitutional Court, which considered that the regulation in question was contrary to constitutional regulation, i.e. Article. 78, which provides for the right to challenge the second instance and Article. 31, who speaks of the right to equal treatment, for he has eliminated this article, which we now want to improve. It is about the possibility of filing a complaint against a court order in which the court refuses the so-called prosecutor. by appeal against a court order which states that it has no right to act, either because it has submitted its accession to the trial after a period of time or does not fall within the category of entitled persons. The Constitutional Tribunal's judgment was delivered in 2018. Of course, this is a binding sentence for us, and notabene is very right, for there is no reason to make exceptions to the general principle of challenge of judgments until the second instance in cases such as the action of a side accuser. Let me remind you that this is the prosecutor who is going into criminal proceedings next to the prosecutor who filed the indictment, who is acting as a victim, or who is going to proceed to the trial brought by the so-called. a subsidiary prosecutor, the one who filed an indictment in a situation where the prosecution twice refused the initiation of proceedings, or the initiation of proceedings, has ceased. So that in its entirety this project deserves recognition. It also met with the approval of the Senate, which accepted this solution, as I recall, unanimously. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u111	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marek Ast will speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u112	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the Senate draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, print No 3193. The draft relates to the provision of the Article. 56 § 3 and is intended to confer on a group of defendants by-laws the right to challenge the decision of the court, which is deprived of the status of party in proceedings. In fact, as the senator has justified, the draft is intended to comply with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal which ruled that it was incompatible with the Article. 78 in conjunction with Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland Art. 56 § 3 of the Code of Criminal Procedure in so far as it excludes the admissibility of an appeal against an order issued pursuant to Article. 56 § 2 Code of Criminal Procedure for the Assistant Prosecutor. In the opinion of the Constitutional Court, the deprivation of the status of the supplicator significantly limits the possibility of defending his rights and interests in criminal proceedings. In addition, the risk of denying the defendant's participation in the trial on the rights of the party is not offset by any other legal instrument. It is appropriate to agree that such deprivation of the right to challenge the decision of the court in this regard does not have any grounds, of course, beyond that which is currently contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure. The decision of the Constitutional Court should therefore be respected. For the reasons already mentioned by the Senator presenting the project, the Law and Justice Club is in favour of further proceding the project and referring it to the competent committee for changes in codification. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u113	Thank you. Mr Arkadiusz Myrch will take the floor on behalf of the Civic Platform-Citizen Coalition club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u114	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, I would like to express my position on the draft law in print No 3193, which is the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of May 2018, which stated that the article was incompatible. 56 § 3 Code of Criminal Procedure with Constitution. The Court held that that Article, in so far as it precludes the admissibility of an appeal against an order under Article. 56 § 2 which refers to the supplicative prosecutor is incompatible with Article. 78 in conjunction with Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Constitutions. In the current wording, Article. 56 The Code of Criminal Procedure differently regulates the status of the supplicative defendant and side-defendant, not really giving them the same procedural defence tools. Art. 56 § 3 k.p.k. provides that a complaint against a court order pursuant to an earlier Article paragraph. 56, in which a further participation in legal proceedings is refused, shall be granted only to a subsidiary defendant, whereas a side-by-side prosecutor, both if he wishes to act in the trial alongside a public prosecutor, and if he wishes to join in the proceedings in connection with the application of a subsidy measure, has not been able to defend and file a complaint against the order of the court. This matter, as I think we all hear, is quite incidental in nature, seems quite confusing, but it affects a very important, extremely important constitutional guarantee. According to the article. 78 Constitutions each party in a court of law, that is to say, every citizen, has the right to challenge decisions and decisions given at first instance. Exceptions to this principle and the appeal procedure may be laid down by law. The rule is that the legislator should avoid any restrictions in this respect, and if he does, this should be done in the spirit of the Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Constitution, i.e. the principles of proportionality. Any restrictions on citizens' rights must be expressed in the law and must be implemented in accordance with this principle. There is also, in our view, an unjustified restriction of the right of access to the court by restricting the possibility to challenge an adverse court order, and it is a provision which de facto determines the possibility of acting as a suing prosecutor at all. Therefore, High Izbo, Senator, in the opinion of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - Civic Coalition, this bill deserves support at this stage of the work and we propose that it be directed to further work in committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u115	Thank you. Mr Paweł Grabowski will present his position on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u116	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 in relation to the next Senate bill amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, the project of the obvious, the project needed, the project implementing the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, which stated that the violation of the Constitution is such a legal solution, according to which the group of defendants of relief by-laws lose the status of the party in proceedings and cannot challenge such a court order. Ladies and gentlemen! However, I used the words of the next draft law, because we were also just in the context of our first reading of the Senate draft law on amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act. Therefore, I allow myself, since we have a moment, to talk at all about lawmaking in Poland, because as for the substance of this project we absolutely do not raise any objections and we are in favour of proceeding over it to adopt these laws and thus increase the right to defend or increase the scope of rights which are granted to citizens. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the multiplication, multiplication of the number of draft laws, which in fact have several articles, is a solution in our assessment of the faulty system. This is, of course, absolutely no charge against the Senate, because the Senate is acting in accordance with certain rules that allow it to be empowered to make such draft laws based on e.g. petitioned by citizens or on their own initiative here, to the Lower House, to report. On the other hand, I think it's worth thinking about this in the future and that my voice will sometime be heard again and again to massage it. If we are to make changes to the rules within the same law, it is a matter of not having such a rather curiosable situation, however, where we are talking in one point of order about one rule, and in the second point about the second rule. You could multiply it that way. Fortunately, today we have only two such points. It is also about rationalising Parliament's labour costs, not to multiply these costs so that Parliament acts more quickly and more efficiently. Ladies and gentlemen! To conclude, I repeat once again, by referring to this remark of a nature, to say, not to the general, but to the systemic, that the Kukiz Club considers that the provisions proposed by the honourable states of the Senators are legitimate provisions. For this reason, Kukiz15 will be in favour of these provisions being transposed by the Sejm and adopted into the Polish legal order. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u117	Thank you for speaking. I have to say, as a lawyer, I share that position. Especially as far as codes are concerned, there must be systemic changes, not changes to individual rules, because they take from this point of view such a general perspective of the assessment of codes, in this case the Code of Criminal Procedure. [[Applause]] I invite Mr Krzysztof Paszyk to speak on behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u118	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats Club, I would like to present our position on the Senate bill amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act with the number 3193 in print. The draft law amending the Law The Code of Criminal Procedure aims to bring the system of law into line with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 16 May 2018 declaring the non-compliance of the Article. 56 § 3 of the Act of 6 June 1997 Code of Criminal Procedure with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. The judgment of the Court challenged the constitutionality of the rule of law closing the party concerned's right to challenge a procedural decision on his status in criminal proceedings as a supplicative prosecutor. The Court found that, although the exclusion of the challenge of the provisions under the Article, 56 § 2 k.p.k. may be considered useful to achieve the efficiency, efficiency and speed of the criminal process, i.e. the values which co-create the condition of public policy in Article. 31 of the Constitution, however, does not meet the conditions of necessity. The criminal court shall act on the basis of Article. 56 § 2 k.p.k. non-complainable under Article. 56 § 3 k.p.k. interference in the right of the defendant by side to participate in legal proceedings is complete and definitive. As a result of the decision of the court, the adjudicator may not take part in criminal proceedings before the court, loses the status of the adjudicator and all the powers attached to him. The risk of wrongful deprivation of the defendant's incidental involvement in the criminal trial, increased by the non-complainability of the order in that entity, is not offset by any other mechanism. The acquisition and maintenance by the victim of a party to a judicial criminal procedure is of fundamental importance from the perspective of his rights. Thus, the refusal of the victim's right to challenge the order of the court denying him the status of a secondary prosecutor, as well as the status of the victim, which automatically results in the loss of the status of a secondary prosecutor, significantly limits the protection of his rights and interests in criminal proceedings. The proposed amendment makes it clear that any judgment given by a court pursuant to Article. 56 are subject to appeal, whether it concerns a subsidiary or a secondary prosecutor. High Izbo! The right to act as a secondary prosecutor may not be a front law, illusory law, and this becomes the case where the victim acting as a secondary prosecutor is prevented from complaining of the order of the court to exclude him from taking part in the decision. The uncomplainable order of the court interferes directly with the interests of the victim by irreparably depriving him of the status of party in criminal proceedings. Therefore, the proposed amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure deserves to be further examined in committees, and the PSL-UED Members' Club is in favour of this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u119	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Does anyone else at this point want to add to the list to ask a question? I can't hear you. So I close the list. We have one person who wants to ask a question. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice. You're welcome. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u120	Thank you, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have one doubt about which I would ask for some development and clarification. I'm talking about a ratio that allows us to limit, as we read in the explanatory memorandum, the number of defendants who sue. This is a matter of violation of criminal law, but I am more interested in justice for those who have been harmed, because it is in fact such a difficult situation. I understand that there are situations in which judicial proceedings may be difficult to handle with a large number of victims, but the law must be the law and we are all equal to the law. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u121	Thank you. I understand the Ministry's representative wants to take the floor, right? Please, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, Mr. Marcin Warchoł.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u122	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! The number of defendants for relief was not dealt with by the Constitutional Tribunal because it was not a contested request, and this was not the subject of the case by the Constitutional Tribunal. In our view, however, the question of the number of supplicators is properly regulated at the moment, since it is the court that decides how many of these supplicators should take part in the proceedings, and from an economic point of view, even if I say, from a pragmatic point of view, there may be a situation where the limitation of that number is due to the social interest, to the interest of the dimension of justice. Let us imagine the situation of major economic scandals when we are dealing with several hundred, sometimes several thousand victims. Therefore, the limitation of such a number is absolutely reasonable. Therefore, this solution raises no doubt, at least ours, at this stage. The Court has dealt with this from a formal point of view, since the proposal concerned only secondary prosecutors and only about powers or precisely that period. Permissions and deadlines. And here, if your marshal will permit, two words. Indeed, a very good initiative - the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. It is clear that the defendant by-laws who proceed to proceedings alongside the prosecutor or with another subsidary defendant and is subsequently eliminated from this process by a decision of the Court of First Instance, since the court finds that he has made his declaration of accession after the deadline or is not authorised, should be entitled to review such decisions. Why? The right of the defendant to participate shall be taken from the right of the victim to participate in the proceedings. The defendant is a victim, and as we know, the victim is defined in a material way, we have a material legal definition of the victim and whether or not someone is victimized, of course it is decided by the substantive criminal law, except that the directness of the violation or threat of the legal good, the whole definition of the victim, Article. 49 The Code of Criminal Procedure is interpreted differently by case law, especially in cases of criminal offences against the good of justice, crimes against the reliability of documents. There are many discussions around this issue and there is often a situation in which the victims, for example, claim that they are victims of the act of art. 231 Criminal Code, Art. 233 The criminal code - the crime of excesses, the crime of failure to fulfil obligations, the crime of forgery of documents - are treated as victims in one case, in another case they are not harmed, because it is, as I say, the definition of the victim within the meaning of Article. 49 and what the judicial authorities, the prosecutor and the judge mean by a direct threat or violation of the legal good, for the victim is the one whose legal interests have been directly threatened or violated by the offence. So that we have here a whole range of different kinds of judican statements. Therefore, in specific cases, the victim should indeed have the right to review that decision of the Court of First Instance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u123	Thank you. Senator Zbigniew Cichoń, as a representative of the applicants, has also expressed his wish to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u124	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This Senate initiative aims not only to implement the Constitutional Tribunal's judgment, but also to protect the victims more. That's what the Minister of Justice was talking about before me. The question of who is considered to be a victim, too, I believe, is worth leaning over, because to date it is a person whose welfare has been directly violated or threatened, causes very often misunderstandings, as mentioned by the Minister, because there is actually some kind of, I will not say that self-will, but freedom in these assessments and divergences. And it often happens that, in almost identical situations, the prosecution initiates proceedings because it believes that a person is actually injured and not in others, because it does not think that this applies to him. As such a clinical example, I can give you a situation where the bank issues a false certificate of the amount deposited in the account and, as a result, the court considers that certain amounts in the bank account are being distributed. And someone is obviously suffering damage because they're forced to repay 1/2 of this amount, so let's give it 200,000. zł, which the bank has shown that they are deposited, and at the moment when it reports to the prosecution in the case of criminal prosecution for a misconception, it is denied because it is claimed that the criminal justice system has been wronged here because the bank has provided him with a forged certificate, and not the person who is obviously wronged in my opinion, because, after all, it is financially affected by a court ruling issued on the basis of a document which is not true. So that in the future it is worth leaning on. Similarly today, while listening to the reflections of the State in other matters concerning and the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Code of Criminal Procedure, I would like to draw attention to the fact that it is also worth taking some work, namely that there is a discrepancy between the same institutions in the criminal and civil procedure as regards the possibility of challenging the order of the court to refuse to dismiss the court. At the moment, we have the situation that, in civil proceedings, such a provision issued by a court of refusal to dismiss the court is entitled to a complaint, but in a criminal procedure which, after all, concerns even more important values for man, because it concerns his freedom, his dignity, his good name, and not only, as is the case in civil matters, the material sphere, although there are also matters concerning the protection of personal goods, of course. There is no justification for such differentiation. I therefore recommend this to the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u125	Thank you, Senator. This speech concludes the discussion. Marshal of the Sejm, based on art. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, directs the Senate's draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, contained in print No. 3193, to the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications for consideration. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: First reading of the Government's draft law amending the Law on support for rural development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 to 2020 and some other laws (print No 3202). Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Zarudzki will present the reasons for the bill. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u126	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The main objective of the proposed law, the shortest law commonly referred to as the Law on the Promotion of Rural Development of the RDPs 2014.2020, is to resolve the fundamental issue in relation to the possibility of introducing financial instruments - a new way of supporting farmers. Let me remind you that the Rural Development Programme is PLN 58 billion to be used by 2023. At the moment we already have 30% of the total amount and 16.5 billion in the accounts of farmers, entrepreneurs and local governments. The mechanisms at the moment are subsidies. There is both a grant system and a bonus system. A bonus system, i.e. one in which the total amount is non-refundable, and a subsidy system, i.e. one in which there is half of the amount, so you have to have an own contribution to make the investment, 50% the entire investment shall be repaid. The law on which we are proceeding is the introduction of a returnable financial instrument. And that's the first such fundamental goal. We are preparing to expand the scale of the beneficiaries. When implementing the Rural Development Programme, we have reached such a point that we need to look for opportunities for a group of beneficiaries not only for grant support. This mainly concerns farmers, but also entrepreneurs, small, medium and large, in rural areas, both those who can benefit from the development programme and - attention - those who cannot benefit from it because they have too much economic size, i.e. here the financial return instrument is also for large, unable to benefit from this form of support. The EU's analysis carried out on behalf of the Ministry of Agriculture has shown the appropriateness of introducing a guarantee financial instrument in the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 and 2020 into the Rural Development Programme - a guarantee, as I have already said... It's a loan guarantee guaranteeing the possibility... of securing this loan. The beneficiary doesn't have to secure it, but it's secured here by this instrument. They are intended for farmers and businesses in the agri-food processing sector. The new form of support will complement the grant offer for the above mentioned groups. And the advantage of support in the form of a financial instrument, compared to grant forms, is the ability to generate from a specific allocation of resources a larger scale of investment, here in the agricultural and processing sector, through the so-called effect. leverage, i.e. the involvement of private banking sector funds. We are talking about the commitment of 50 million from the Rural Development Programme, which can be cyclically implemented over a number of years, and this will generate a credit mass that will be available at around 250 million, so this is quite serious so-called. the leverage. This proposal provides for amendments to the three laws: the first earlier mentioned by me, the basic law on support for rural areas, the second on corporate income tax and the third on guarantees and guarantees granted by the State Treasury and certain legal persons. As regards the first amendment relating to the Rural Development Support Act, it concerns the extension of the scope of the provisions covered by the Law on the rules for the implementation of financial instruments. Secondly, it adds the definitions of the new terms used in the proposed law: financial instruments and the final recipient and identifies the entities involved in the implementation of the financial instruments under the Rural Development Programme - the managing authority, the paying agency, the implementing bodies. It shall clarify the tasks of those entities, including the powers and control obligations, and shall indicate the additional elements to be covered by the agreement, the terms and conditions, the deadlines for the payment of funds, the conditions for the termination of the financing agreement, the conditions and the manner in which the funds are to be reimbursed and the obligation to be subject to controls by the competent institutions. In addition, the Act must specify the general procedure and deadline for the payment of funds by the paying agency to the beneficiaries. If necessary, I will be able to address the particular issues in which direction this is going in detail at the meeting of the Sejm Committee. That's it. quite precisely described in the explanatory memorandum of this law. In addition, the amendments to the Rural Development Support Act will consist in regulating the way in which the financial resources allocated to the financial contribution and interest and other income are handled and the profits generated by the marketing of those funds. Following the implementation of the financing obligations under the financing agreement as proposed in Article. 50d of the provision will be transferred to the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego for the provision of the National Guarantee Fund. Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego will be the parent bank, which will manage this - of course by signing agreements with cooperative banks and other most favourable banks - so that these funds can be implemented directly to them and that specific settlement agreements can be signed. As far as corporation tax is concerned, it is proposed in Article. 2 amendment of the Corporate Income Tax Act exempts from CIT the revenues of the entity implementing financial instruments under the RDP for the years 2014 to 2020. In accordance with Community rules on legal decisions relating to the entity's income, the revenues of the entity implementing the financial instrument derived from the resources of the RDP entrusted to that entity in the management of the financial instrument shall be allocated by the budget of the financial instrument. As always, financial terms are quite complicated, but it is a matter of ordering in the Income Tax Act the issue of the absence of income tax burden in relation to the financial instrument. It's the easiest way to reschedule. The same provision is currently in force with regard to the revenue of entities implementing financial instruments under cohesion policy. I will not hide that, when it comes to cohesion policy, we are looking for the right solutions and tools, and we are modeling on previous decisions, adapting them to the agricultural sector and agri-food processing, i.e. where needs are greatest. The third law, which is amended in connection with the introduction of financial instruments, is the Law on Guarantees and Guarantees provided by the State Treasury and certain legal persons. As proposed in the Article. 3 the amendment of the Law on Guarantees and Guarantees provided by the State Treasury and certain legal persons is intended to enable the Bank of National Farms to provide guarantees or guarantees to the agricultural and fisheries sectors under government programmes, including the implementation of the financial instruments of the RDP for the period 2014 to 2020. The proposed amendments also address a number of other issues. I will mention only a few of them: extending the existing definition of small and medium-sized enterprises entitled to benefit from guarantees or guarantees provided by the Bank of National Farms to include agricultural and fisheries activities, identifying the status of the Bank of National Farms guarantees or guarantees as a form of de minimis aid in agriculture or fisheries, giving up the obligation for the borrower to set up a micro-entrepreneur, small and medium-sized enterprise - safeguards for claims arising from the performance of the obligations of a guarantor or guarantor by Bank of National Farms. These are safeguards and decisions. The next is the introduction of a mandate for the Minister of Finance to issue regulations governing specific provisions and to provide a basis for the allocation of funds remaining after the implementation of financing agreements for the implementation of financial instruments as a possible additional source of supply to the National Guarantee Fund. I am convinced that we are building a good mechanism, which does not affect the existing financial structure, is rather piloting rather than a full, broad decision, which should be an important element in the new programming period as a tool to support a complementary financial offer in line with the needs of farmers and agri-food processing. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u127	Thank you for presenting the project. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Zbigniew Dolata will speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u128	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice vis-à-vis the Government's draft law amending the Law on support for rural development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme 2014 The main objective of the draft law is to create an institutional legal framework for the implementation of financial instruments. To date, a grant scheme has been applied which has limited the funding possibilities of many operations and costs, including: the purchase of animals, annual plants or working capital. With investments to farmers, micro-entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized enterprises in the agricultural and agri-food processing sectors, the launch of financial instruments in the RDPs for 2014 and 2020 will enable the request for a loan guaranteed by the scheme to the required own contribution necessary to receive the grant support. As a result, the beneficiary will be able to obtain a loan on preferential terms to finance the required own contribution. This will increase the availability of external sources of investment funding. The bill, as the Minister has already discussed quite extensively here, provides for amendments to three laws: the first - the law on supporting rural development, the second - the law on corporate income tax, and the third - the Law on guarantees and guarantees given by the State Treasury and certain legal persons. The essence of the amendment of the first of these laws is the introduction of provisions concerning the implementation of financial instruments, precisely guarantee instruments, and the identification of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego as the entity implementing financial instruments. The institutions cooperating with BGK will be cooperative banks and commercial banks. The amendment also includes provisions concerning the introduction of effective mechanisms or control systems, the determination of the procedure and the deadline for the payment of funds by the paying agency - this paying agency is, of course, the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture - for the payment of these funds to beneficiaries, the conditions to be met by payment requests, etc. As the Minister discussed these two other laws very widely, the Corporate Income Tax Act and the amendments to the Guarantees and Guarantees Act, I already feel relieved of this obligation. Finally, I would like to say that the introduction of the solutions discussed by me and by you is necessary, and that is why Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support the draft in print No 3202 in the course of further parliamentary work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u129	Thank you. And I invite Mr Kazimierz Plocke, who will present his position on behalf of the Civic Platform-Citizen Coalition Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u130	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The draft Law on Seym Print No 3202 provides for the introduction of financial instruments in the form of guarantees in exchange for the waiver of grants under the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 to 2020. This is a new form of assistance within the framework of the RDP, which is funded by the Polish government to farmers and entrepreneurs without consultation, I will remind you, without consulting the industry organisations of farmers, trade unions and entrepreneurs. This is also the result of the impact assessment of the regulation. We also learn from the same evaluation that the Ministry project was placed in the Public Information Bulletin of the Government Legislative Centre. We would also like to know what the opinions and assessments of the Government Legislative Centre were about this project. From the information obtained, it appears that the government has committed itself to implementing those provisions which are contained in the bill under examination. We would also like to know what the government is using to prepare these proposals for less than 2 years before the completion of the contract under the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020. We also learn from the impact assessment that the project is a very urgent project because it is due to apply from March 2019. What's the hurry? Who's he supposed to serve? And are these proposals, which are included in Draft Print Law 3202, attractive to farmers, entrepreneurs? We would like to make sure that it is, but since there was no consultation, we do not know this position. Minister! Why are you creating a law without informing interested parties without consulting them? This is something that happens in this House and in this term of office quite often, but we do not want to participate in this procedure and we do not agree to this procedure. Consequently, if we do not have consultations, it means that the government knows better and does not have to conduct such consultations, and in the election campaign it was the Law and Justice that declared that it would listen to people. Today we know that these passwords are not valid. The Minister mentioned that EUR 50 million had been planned for the implementation of this programme and that it would be piloting, but we would like to know from what funds from the Rural Development Programme the money will be transferred to create this mechanism. What kind of action? Whether from savings, whether from modernization, or from so-called. A young farmer? Any other suggestions? We'd like to meet them. We also read that the aid is to be granted to micro-enterprises, small and medium-sized enterprises, which are processors of the agri-food industry. The bank guarantee is to cover not more than 80% the outstanding amount of the loan. We learn from the draft regulation that the amount of PLN 5 million can be allocated to one entity. In other words, if we were to use the maximum rate, we could serve 40 players as part of this piloting. Is this law-making for 40 entities? That's why we think that... This guarantee is to be given, and we don't know where it's coming from for 51 months. This is also the result of the draft regulation. Why 51 months? It follows from this statement that this pilotage is only intended to be limited to a small problem that is to be solved. We therefore believe that the proposals contained in this project are unacceptable. I would therefore like to make a proposal on behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club to reject the bill at first reading. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u131	Thank you, sir. I invite you to speak for Mr Jarosław Sachaika, club Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u132	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Rural Development Support Act with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 to 2020 and some other laws. The project provides for the introduction of a new form of support to be provided by financial instruments. The explanatory memorandum of the bill shows that the problem of difficult access for farmers to external sources of funding, which is a consequence of difficulties in making investments, slowing them down or liquidity disruptions, has been identified. The size of the financial gap was estimated at more than PLN 11 billion, and as a prescription for solving the external deficit, the Ministry proposes appropriate financial instruments to facilitate access to these external sources of funding. Unfortunately, as stated in the explanatory memorandum itself, the financial instruments implemented under the programme will not significantly reduce the financial gap. The planned EUR 50 million is a drop in the sea of needs. Small and medium-sized farms are colliding with the wall today because they are unable to overcome the problem of raising funds for development, for modernisation. It is becoming increasingly clear in the Polish countryside that there are large farms that have been able to invest, which are prospering and small and medium-sized farms are on the verge of profitability and either being liquidated or barely binding an end, most often thanks to households working outside the farm. There is still no idea how to help these farms, how to make the market a place for them to be profitable. I am afraid that the solution proposed in this project today, although it is heading in the right direction, will not produce the desired results due to the small scale. Farm debt is a huge problem today. According to the report of the National Debt Register of the Economic Information Office, the debt in the agricultural sector amounts to PLN 412.5 million and the average debt of the farmer amounts to approximately 49 thousand. zł. The farmer is a particular type of borrower due to the specific nature of his business, and this fact is most often not interested in banks. The adjustment of commitments by farmers depends on a number of factors, often independent of them, such as the abundance of crops depending on the weather situation, the price of agricultural fruits, the solvency of counterparties. The truth is, farmers pay when they get paid themselves. It is therefore more important for many farms to maintain relative financial stability, and any investment represents a major risk to this stability. On the other hand, the desire to modernise the farm is so strong that farmers forget the wise saying: money makes money and debt makes debt - and every investment should be aimed at improving the financial situation of the farm. At the same time, as far as the whole credit system is concerned, I note that a large part of the debt-related liability of farmers is borne by banks themselves, which are quite nonchalant in verifying the creditworthiness of farmers. The desire for profit often sends a realistic assessment of the situation, which, together with the other factors mentioned above, leads to a huge debt of farmers, with which Polish agriculture is currently struggling. In conclusion, I support the proposed solution, but I am very sceptical. on the effectiveness of the mechanism. Therefore, I ask the Minister to further, in-depth analysis of the problem and to take measures that will really contribute to supporting the development of Polish farms. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u133	Thank you, sir. I invite you to present Mr Marek Sawicki, a club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u134	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Speaking on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I would like to say that the proposal presented is not a new solution, because apart from agriculture it obviously occurs, this is a new solution in agriculture. From the information, we know from the justification that the Ministry has been working on the project since the beginning of 2016, so it has been working for quite a long time, and it is a pity that we, as Members, but also agricultural organisations have not received this project before. In agreement with the assessment of both Minister Plocke and the chairman of the Sachajka Agriculture Committee, I would like to make it clear that I have a positive attitude to this initiative personally, but provided that it is indeed piloting. And I am not worried about the small scale of it, because this 50 million euro proposed at the end of this financial perspective with regard to RDPs is a small amount for the project itself, but unfortunately a large loss in this programme. I would also like to make the Minister aware and to draw attention to the resort's fact that the rate of spending under the Rural Development Programme is far dissatisfied, that the expectation of farmers for the money that supports the development that supports investment, but not only farmers, but also agricultural producers, both machinery and equipment suppliers and the agri-food processing industry, is enormous. We also know that the proposed amount for the future Rural Development Programme for Poland, and in general for the Union, is lower than the budget from 2014 to 2020 and in the case of RDPs for Poland, these first signals are very worrying, because it is a matter of more than 25%. So looking for new, effective instruments to support development, to support investment really seems to be a necessity, which - as in the old proverb - appears at the last moment, but better late than never. And I want to say that I have certain hopes. The chairman of the agricultural committee left... [[Voice from the room: No.]] Oh, there it is. I'm sorry. (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. At least on this bill, because it is a very complicated law despite its short writing, I would like us to have good expertise from economists - personally I will also prepare one with my own groups of advisors - and so that we do not release a bubble in the agriculture committee, which we will be updating in a moment. So hopefully I want to lean on it and work on it, and I believe that's how my parliamentary club feels about it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u135	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Ewa Lieder, on behalf of the Modern Club, made a written statement. We proceed to ask questions at this point. Would any of you like to join the list? I can't see. So I close the list. We begin with Mr Richard Wilczyński, the Civic Platform - the Civic Coalition, who will ask the first question. But I don't see your MP. Therefore, Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u136	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the following question for your department. The envisaged gap after the reduction of EU resources in the RDPs after 2020 is intended to complement to some extent the investments from the financial market covered by the guarantee. This is, of course, a natural solution. However, it should be noted that, in such a situation, the solution proposed by the State will lead to the use of loans by persons and entities who have so far been deprived of this option or who are not willing to take the risk of such a form of investment financing. My question: Does the Ministry therefore provide for comprehensive information and support measures for those persons and entities who have not yet acquired competence in the use of investment credit? This seems necessary in order to avoid further disappointments or even loss of property in the event of an unthinkable investment, which would also be burdened by the State. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u137	Thank you. And another question, Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u138	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A new financial instrument is created, it is created in a big hurry, which is a little disturbing, because here we have some of these sets. But these measures that are foreseen in this programme, as you called it, the Minister, the pilot, are small, small for a small number of actors. At the same time, in the explanatory memorandum, the Minister's minister or lawyers write about a huge financial gap, and indeed with such a financial gap farmers meet - PLN 11 billion. How does the Minister see the possibility of flooding in, covering this huge financial gap? And second question. As the Ministry estimates, it will be the final interest rates in cooperative banks or other banks with which Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego [[♪ The bell ♪]] He's gonna sign a deal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u139	Thank you. Mr Paweł Kobyliński, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u140	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I would like to return here to the question of lack of consultation. If this is to be a pilot programme, it is all the more important that this consultation should be broad, because we should use all the information we receive from industry, from associations, from people who are dealing with the problem, especially if it is agriculture, which is a very specific form of doing business. I would also like to ask about the cost of the bill. They were mentioned here, but I am referring to the possible future, because once again if this is piloting and this year we have 50 million euros, I understand that in future years they will probably be bigger. Is this guaranteed, and if so, where are these funds coming from, Minister, how big is this pot going to be? And there's a question about how fast you're proceding and how fast you're doing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the entry into force of this law, i.e. March 2019. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u141	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Law and Justice. You're welcome. The Member will ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u142	Dear Marshal! Minister! The explanatory memorandum of the draft law states that, in accordance with the financing agreement, financial institutions cooperating in the implementation of financial instruments, i.e. through funding banks, they will create portfolios of new loans for eligible final recipients. My question: Is the scale of these potential and final recipients known in the coming years? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u143	Thank you. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u144	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, we remain convinced that this is a piloting measure. If so, I think the Minister will answer us decisively, yes. The point is not that this is a programme adopted as recently an intervention programme in fruit concentration - I no longer want to develop it at this point - and because it is an election year. Secondly, if this is piloting and work has been going on for two years, why couldn't it be speeded up and consulted? That's the second question. What is the place in which, as a result of this programme, the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises provides for, because the financial difficulties in this area and in this range are increasing and there is no indication that they can be reduced? That's it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u145	Thank you. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats. This is another Member who will ask a question on this point. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u146	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Now that we're talking about agricultural income, I'd like to ask you one thing that we're not talking about right now, which was pretty loud at the end of the year. When the income from the conversion hectare on the farm was determined, there was a drastic increase year-to-year by 800 PLN - 3400 out of 1 conversion hectare. And in what context do I ask? In such a way that the press reported that many agricultural families would lose 500+ due to such a rapid increase in agricultural income, which is not justified in actual income, but the CUS announced so. My question: Does the Ministry have any idea how many people from agricultural families have been excluded from the payout system 500+ by the fact that these revenues are [[♪ The bell ♪]] Overestimated? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u147	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Dolata, Law and Justice, will ask a final question in this point. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u148	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Platform Club has just filed a motion to reject the project at first reading. To be honest, maybe it is understandable, as against the standards of total opposition, because such rights are governed by total opposition, but it would still be appropriate to justify such a conclusion, because actually the only argument that has been put forward is the lack of consultation. It would be useful to address the problem itself and to answer the question whether it is not worth helping farmers, the agri-food processing sector, in terms of the possibility of using instruments that will allow them to obtain funding or external financing. There seems to be such a need, and if the Platform Club were to make amendments that would increase the range of beneficiaries, [[♪ The bell ♪]] this could be understood, but rejection at first reading is against the interests of agriculture and the agri-food processing sector. And I wanted to ask the Minister about the number of beneficiaries. Does the Ministry have such estimates? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u149	Thank you. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Mr Ryszard Zarudzki will answer questions in this point.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u150	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for asking. They are always a benchmark for our work, looking for the best solutions. I would also like to say that the proposed law can and should have a positive impact on the competitiveness of the economy and entrepreneurship. I answer some questions in some context. Activation of the financial instrument in the form of guarantees will improve accessibility for micro-entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized enterprises in the agricultural sector. Remember, too, that it will allow these farmers... They're turning to us. We are conducting a public consultation, perhaps not to such a large extent, and this concerns a small pilot, and I would like to stress that, because we need to try something, so that in the new programming period we can propose wider solutions, full quality. Secondly, the market has arrived, I think the farmers have arrived themselves. Recently I was in the Old Field at a meeting of 250 farmers from the sugar sector. They ask: We have animal production, Minister, and when would we be able to use the program? I say, "There will be feedback instruments." Okay, we're going this way. So there's a group of customers. What group? We estimate that this is a group of up to 20,000. farmers, because we cannot exclude anyone here, the research was quite precise, conducted by the European Investment Bank in accordance with a methodology. It is not only Poland that implements this mechanism, it is implemented by several countries, including some regions in France and Germany. I think there's a trend that we're getting involved in, and we want to show that our agriculture has also grown to some modern decisions. Then why don't we try it? Raising the fact that you have to reject this law at the start is completely incomprehensible to me. After all, 200 million zlotys is at 58 billion from the Rural Development Programme really promilem promila. Thank you for your support to Minister Sawicki, and I think we will look for these solutions at the Parliamentary Committee meetings, we will discuss this - we are talking about the complexity of the system so that it is as simple as possible. We are very happy to benefit from good experiences. Thank you for your comments. But I would like to say quite firmly that the farmer will be able to use this to finance the required own contribution. It will be able to obtain credit on preferential terms for its own contribution. In addition, support from the financial instrument will allow funding for a much wider range of operations and costs such as the purchase of animals, the purchase of annual plants and working capital, than has so far been allowed and used in grant support. I think it was the farmers we talked about. Consultations have been held at many meetings, maybe not on some media level, but I assure you that they are, and this instrument is expected. As regards the funds and questions raised by your fellow Members, I would like to address them this way: if the RCL considered the law appropriate, the opinion of the Government's Legislative Centre brings such a sequencing element, but not decisive as regards further proceding. That acceptance was. I think that when it comes to opportunities, we are all the more planning to implement this programme as soon as possible. This is really possible at the beginning of the third quarter and, I think, we will be implementing it with consequence. As far as the possibility of enlargement in the new programming period is concerned, it is possible, but we will see what the result of piloting will be. We were piloting the action: Cooperation. This is an important action in which consortia for knowledge transfer and innovation are built. He exposed, showed us our reality, where there are shortcomings and where things need to be corrected. I am convinced that, in the case of this pilotage, we will also be able to rehearse solutions that can be forward-looking and forward-looking in a certain population. I also think that when it comes to the implementation of the development programme, it is possible to refer to whether there is such a pace that we are implementing and using all means, i.e. the principle of n+3 and no zloty is returning to the European Commission. You can talk about greater or less involvement of beneficiaries with bigger or smaller problems, but let me remind you that nearly 30% of the funds are in farmers' accounts, I already mentioned that. For almost PLN 17 billion, or 46% appropriations, contracts are already signed, i.e. this is the stage of implementation and payment requests. I will also remind you that so far there have been a full 3 years of implementation of the development programme: 2016, 2017 and 2018, and we still have almost 4.5 years of implementation. As of today, the annual implementation rates, the amounts of funds spent are strictly defined and we implement them according to the timetable. The most important thing for us is that the funds are well distributed, so that farmers get good results through these measures, so that the funds do not go back to the European Commission to secure the pot for our farmers in full. I think when it comes to other questions, we say to the banks... Please bear in mind that the financial resources themselves from the RDP are guarantees of loans, not loans. Here I would like to refer to the first statement by the Member: not PLN 50 million and we do not divide it into loans. It is only a certain credit claim and a farmer applying for a preferential loan will not have to worry about the loan guarantees and bet on the assets of the entire holding. We think that from the portfolio of various tools to support farmers and feedback instruments at this moment we are practicing only one. One we practice and watch him function. So I think that this differentiation procedure is not loan funds, but loans and loan guarantees that will be granted by banks: cooperative banks or other banks with which Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego will sign contracts. As far as the Ministry of Agriculture is concerned, as long as people have been overestimated in terms of 500+, it is difficult for me to answer that question. If this pleases the Member, we will deliver it in writing. Let me put it this way: thank you very much for all your comments. I think that the session of the Sejm Committee will be able to address the issues presented in more detail. I am convinced that what we are doing, and Commissioner Hogan stressed this earlier... Sooner or later, some things can be planned, but then reality checks where we can apply them. This seems to be the optimal time. We've been thinking about this for a long time. I am convinced, according to what is in other European countries, what is in the European Commission, that we are looking for good solutions. There are good experiences, good experiences for farmers in this programming period, which will be a percentage in 2021 and 2026. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u151	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u152	In accordance with the draft law amending the Law on support for rural development involving the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014 to 2020 and certain other laws submitted by the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development, farmers and micro-, small and medium-sized enterprises in the agri-food processing sector will be able to apply to banks involved in the implementation of financial instruments for a preferential loan covered by the guarantee from the financial instrument established in the framework of the RDPs 2014 to 2020. Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego is to secure loans to farmers who want to invest but do not have their own collateral through agreements with banks lending farmers. The introduction of regulations introduced by the bill is possible, among others. by carrying out additional studies by the European Investment Bank (EIB) on the feasibility of using financial instruments in the framework of the 2014-2020 RDPs. The proposed project was adopted by the Council of Ministers only a week ago. He was immediately referred to the first reading of the Sejm. However, it requires a broad analysis at least at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, as there has been no consultation with it. The procedure for the project is carried out instantly, as also indicated by the fact that the new regulations are to apply on the day following the date of their publication in the Official Journal. The Ministry of Agriculture's haste is due to the fear of less funding in the EU budget after 2020. According to government estimates, the funds planned to be made available for financial instruments of EUR 50 million are to create a range of new loans of at least EUR 250 million by the end of 2023. In order to make full use of these opportunities, potential beneficiaries will need to be encouraged to do so. The problem with the loans that farmers are taking is the instability of the agricultural sector dependent on a number of factors (drying, ASF) and emerging debts as a result of their occurrence. The banks involved are to obtain in this case a credit risk component of up to 80% for one credit. The Modern Posel Club will vote to direct the project to work in committee for a broad analysis of the proposed regulations.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u153	A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We should now proceed with the examination of item 25 of the agenda: First reading of the Parliamentary draft law amending the excise duty refund law contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production, print No 3206, but there is no rapporteur. Mr Robert Telus had this... [[I'm here. Me on behalf of the club.]] There is no representative of the applicants. Therefore, since there is no Member, I am very sorry, I will announce a time-out. 14. We must wait for the Member. I think we should respect each other and come to the meeting on time. [[He's coming.]] How many minutes? Okay, I'm declaring a five-minute break. I am very sorry, but the Member has been missing for a long time. Time-out time-out time-out time-out time-out time-out [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 min 36 hours 13 min 57]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 25 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the excise duty refund Act contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production (print No 3206). I would like to ask Mr Robert Telus to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u154	Marshal, I'd like to explain...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u155	In the Seym, as you know, we have flexibility, and sometimes there is acceleration, sometimes a delay, and that is why Members should be vigilant. [[Voice from the room: Oh!]] [[Exactly.]] [[You're right, Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u156	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is my great honor to present the parliamentary bill amending the excise duty refund Act contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production. This is an urgent act, because it is expected by farmers. The Act specifies exactly the refund of excise duty included in the price of fuel oil for agricultural production... [[Drive-drive.]] ...drive oil. It's about codes that weren't included... It turned out that they were not included in the code directory. Five codes weren't accounted for. In the project we specify, specify, meet the expectations of farmers. We want to straighten this matter out quickly so that farmers can benefit from excise duty on each code, on every fuel and on every diesel they've bought for agricultural production. This is a fundamental change in this bill. The second change is that farmers can submit their applications not as they have been so far, i.e. until 28 February, only until the end of March, until 31 March. High Izbo! As I said, it is an urgent project, a project expected by farmers, a project that makes it easier for farmers, so I ask the High House to help us to regulate and help Polish farmers together. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u157	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Leszek Galemba, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u158	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Law and Justice Club a draft law amending the excise duty refund Act contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production, print no. 3206. It is a very important act primarily for Polish farmers, food producers. It concerns the possibility of obtaining a refund of part of the excise duty included in the price of gas oil purchased and used for agricultural production from all types of gas oil offered on the market. This is to add to the catalogue of diesel classified under CN code 27102011. On 9 November 2018, the Sejm adopted a law amending certain laws to introduce simplifications for entrepreneurs in tax and economic law. The exclusion from the diesel catalogue of CN code 27102011 makes it impossible from 1 January 2019 to refund excise duty in the case of the purchase of this oil for agricultural production. It is therefore necessary to introduce a change that will allow farmers to return part of their excise duties. The envisaged solution is beneficial for agricultural producers primarily because of the possibility of obtaining a refund of part of the excise duty included in the price of gas oil purchased and used for agricultural production. This amendment should enter into force on the day following the publication of the Act, with effect from 1 January 2019. This proposal does not entail a burden from the state budget or from the budget of local government units. The project has a positive social, financial and legal impact. The subject matter of the proposed regulation is not covered by European Union law. High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I ask the High House to pass this law. The club supports this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u159	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u160	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present to you on behalf of the Civic Platform - Coalition Club an opinion on the draft law amending the Act on the refund of excise duty contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production, print No 3206. Sejm of the Republic of Poland on 9 November 2018 - relatively recently, because about 3 months ago - he passed a law on amending certain laws in order to introduce simplifications for entrepreneurs in tax and economic law, Dz. U. z 2018 poz. 2244, which amended the wording of Article. 1 of the Act of 10 March 2006. This amendment was dictated by an amendment to the excise duty Act, i.e. the amendment of Article. 28 as regards the replacement of CN Combined Nomenclature codes with CN codes applied in accordance with applicable customs rules and regulations - i.e. the so-called. codification of CN codes. The above amendment states that part of the excise duty will be refunded and will be granted to agricultural producers in the case of purchases of gas oil with a code as in the explanatory memorandum to the amendment of that law. A new catalogue of codes has been introduced which omits classic diesel, classified under CN code 27102011, i.e. so-called. B7 diesel, commonly marketed. This makes it impossible for agricultural producers, including farmers, to refund excise duty from 1 January 2019. There is a positive opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office for Print No. 3206 - with the following note: urgent procedure - dated 15 February 2019. And what does that opinion say? Firstly, that this project is not contrary to European Union law, and secondly that it is not a draft law implementing European Union law. To sum up, they are guilty of all this confusion or - as anyone prefers - a mess is the Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology, because the original change was created on his own initiative. Farmers submitting an application for excise duty at the municipal authorities received information on the rejection of their applications due to the incorrect codes appearing on the purchase invoices. And, ladies and gentlemen, the ride starts not to say, "Trouble." Who? It is known: farmers, farmers. It's like they don't have anything to do. The Minister of Agriculture in December 2018 asked the Minister of Finance to restore the normal situation. The Minister of Agriculture himself also took action to extend the application for one month to the municipal offices. The fact is that under the law, the CN code is not required on invoices. So, Minister, what's it like? Is it required or not required? Of course, the project must enter into force on 1 January 2019, which is backwards, which is not boastful, which makes these laws as usual do quickly, because this is the consequence of this, because these are things that are beneficial for repairing the mistake previously made. [[Is that good or bad? Because I don't understand.]] I would like to say that, here, the Minister of reverse law changed the limits and standards of diesel consumption to 1 ha, but the Minister did not take advantage of the expert opinions that spoke of 138 litres per hectare. The Minister accepted 100 l, 30 l on the DJP as a novelty to cattle. Let me remind you that from December 2015 to November 2018 diesel prices increased by PLN 1.1. In my opinion, these are costs higher by about 150 PLN per hectare. Of course, the Civic Platform and Coalition Club will vote in favour of further proceedings in committees, but this November legislation and the present legislation show that it should be [[♪ The bell ♪]] use expert opinions. Because if you don't, why order them? And calmly, but exactly. Nevertheless, this law goes in the right direction. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u161	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u162	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Requestor! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law amending the Act on the refund of excise duty contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production. The aim of this project is to correct the error that has resulted in the refund of excise duty on the purchase of agricultural gas oil falling within CN code 2710 20 11 since 1 January 2019. It turns out that the Law of 9 November 2018 amending certain laws to introduce simplifications for businesses in tax and economic law not only did not simplify the rules but also made it more difficult to obtain excise duty reimbursement. Several days ago, when the municipal authorities started the selection of applications, farmers were very unpleasantly surprised by the fact that they were not entitled to a refund for the purchased fuel. On the one hand, I am glad that the error has been noticed and there is a will to repair it. On the other hand, I do not see anyone feeling responsible for the situation. There is nothing in the justification of the project that there has been an oversight of a material deficiency, but an empty statement that a new catalogue has been introduced by the Act of November 2018 which omits diesel classified under CN 2710 20 11. A few months' preparation of the project by the government, agreements, consultations and opinions, the work of dozens of people, a few hundred devoted hours, and the effect is that today we are patching a broken bill. Someone's gonna say nothing happened, but I don't see any reason to honk about success. I see a complete failure of the officials. It is us, the whole of society, who make up the financing of the work of state administration, public institutions. Today we all got a painful cheek from the state apparatus, because it turns out that hard-earned money is wasted. An employee who is incompetent makes mistakes is simply thrown out of work because an employer cannot afford to hire dilemmas. Unfortunately, judging by the lack of indication of the persons responsible for the error, the rulers of our country do not include the principles of a common market economy. Another issue is citizens' confidence in the state and their rights, which should be guaranteed, guaranteeing security for each individual. Because of mistakes such as the one that is currently under discussion, the public's confidence in the state, to the rulers, is drastically decreasing in power. For who can guarantee that in a month or two months' time, the following provisions are not precise, incomplete or have other shortcomings? At the same time, I would like to make it clear that my criticism is not based on a desire to bring down the government. I am not trying to raise political capital, but I am just saying that I am extremely concerned about the situation, because we are once again observing, on this example, that the current system of law-making and governance is severely impaired. I'm sorry that instead of saying yes, there's a problem, there's been a failure. We are looking for a cause and we are trying to introduce system mechanisms that will prevent similar situations in the future. The attitude is accepted: it has happened. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. Taking responsibility for actions taken for citizens and realizing that these actions have consequences for all of us, for the whole state, is very important. And that responsibility, professionalism, please. Thank you. [[There's no one to give you a hand, Jarek. See? Well, I wish I could, but...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u163	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Marek Sawicki, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u164	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Of course, I agree with part of the speech by the Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, but unlike him, I know how hard officials work in the Ministry of Agriculture. Maybe ministers work less hard. Therefore, neither the Ministry of Agriculture nor the Government is going to bully me anymore. I would like to thank Mr Telus for his initiative. It is necessary, necessary and beneficial. At the same time, I am applying for a second reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u165	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club. There is no Member. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask another question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz.15 One minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u166	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicant of this bill. How could you say to us all, to our citizens: What is the cost of the officials' negligence in connection with the ill-prepared mother law that we are correcting at the moment? What is the cost of involving Members? What is the cost of involving officials? What are the costs incurred by farmers who will have to go to the municipality office again and submit documents again? And second question. Does the applicant know how many farmers will not be able to benefit from this law because they did not receive invoices because the code did not exist? [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] I would like your answer, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u167	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Piotr Polek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u168	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Agricultural fuel and the possibility to deduct part of excise duty is a very important topic for farmers. In fact, there's been a bit of a mix-up lately. I also received signals that some invoices were accepted and others were not. In view of the fact that we have now quickly approached this topic and, I believe, it will be comprehensively regulated, I would like to ask: Minister, will all the invoices which were previously contested, on which there was no code or code be wrong - especially those invoices on which no code was entered - be able to be cleared, as already provided for in the amended Act? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u169	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u170	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act on the refund of excise duty included in the price of diesel used for agricultural production entered into force only at the beginning of the year and there is already a need to amend it. Unfortunately, it's an inexorable case, because it's happening, and it's a notorious case. That's the law of PiS. This is very bad, Mr President, very bad. [[Joy in the Chamber]] As a result of legislative errors, farmers since 1 January this year. may not apply for the refund of part of excise duty. They are exposed to unnecessary costs and stress. All ministers shall be involved, starting with the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology, which is my main culprit. You're pretending it's okay, that everything's okay. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What will be the consequences of these shortcomings? At the same time, the deadline for submitting applications for excise duty refunds on purchased agricultural fuel will be extended by one month, i.e. until 31 March. In my opinion, it's too short a deadline. What is the chance to extend this period so that as many farmers can benefit from the possibility of refunding excise duties? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u171	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u172	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It happened, there was a mistake. There's an initiative to fix it quickly. All these comments have been made. Minister! Taking this opportunity, I would like to ask you whether you are considering the question of setting the limit on fuel consumption per hectare and referring to the work of experts so that these limits on fuel per hectare from which excise duty is recoverable are similar to the actual spent fuel needed to produce. I know this goes on with other issues, securing resources, but is there any chance at all of this, or is there even talk about it? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u173	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u174	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Seems to me like it's such a small thing. This is the fact that this is not a matter of heavy weight, occupied by billions of zlotys. But I would like to draw your attention to a completely different fact. The Members of the Law and Justice say this: here comes another river of money in the country and farmers, we should all be glad that these coins are going when it comes to diesel and the costs involved. It's true in the sense that money goes to the country, but they've been going for a long time. My previous speaker asked the question and this is a very appropriate question: Why does the Minister not take advantage of the expert opinion? And summa summarum, I would ask you to answer that question. During the rule of rule since 2015, the increase in diesel prices is 1 PLN, that is 150 PLN per hectare. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is in the case of a farm of 300 ha the size of 45 thousand. You can't see the start of increased revenues. There's no big river of money here when you look at it in the energy fuel system in this sector.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u175	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u176	And this method had to be looked at. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u177	Thank you very much. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Minister Rafał Romanowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u178	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much to the Members of the House for this parliamentary initiative, for trying to correct this error as quickly as possible in the amendment of the Law of the end of 2018 that additional codes will be added. Here Mr Ajchler has made a pretty good point about what will happen to those invoices that do not have those codes. To be honest, these invoices, which do not have these codes, simply explain the whole matter, because these invoices are, as much as possible, refundable and there is no slightest problem. Worse with those invoices that are so detailed about these codes. That is why these additional two additional codes must appear in this catalogue of CN codes, which will simply meet the needs of farmers. There have always been two deadlines for the submission of proposals since 2006. The first deadline is from the first to the last February, and the second deadline is from the first to the last August, so the extension of the first recruitment deadline by one month in 2019 will be as suitable as possible for Polish farmers and they will deal with it without the slightest problem, as well as those farmers who have already tried to submit these applications and for example. they had these invoices bearing those codes which did not appear, because according to the Code of Administrative Procedure these applications from the machine will be considered, so here it does not cause either, it does not interfere with additional treatments by Polish farmers. Let us remember one rather important point. Mr Ajchler and Mr Kotowski drew attention to the expertise. These expertises are not a novelty that emerged in 2018, because these expertises have been renewed by the Ministry of Agriculture for many, many years. Minister Sawicki probably knows very well that these expertises are from 90 l to more than 170 l. So Mr Aichler averaged this - 138 l. And we have just come up against the expectations of Polish farmers, we have increased the limit from 86 l to 100 l, as well as in accordance with these expertises which the Member refers to, we have chosen this group just as far as animal production is concerned, which is the most expensive, and in addition, as you know perfectly well, in the case of the production of bovine animals to an adult conversion unit there is an additional 30 l. So it was up to 86 l, now you have up to 100 l. There is also this most absorbing, costly group of animal production here in this plan and in this fuel, in quotes, the refund of excise duty as much as possible. So we are following the example of experts and increasing this limit, as well as providing additional resources. Let us bear in mind that when it comes to these measures which have emerged since 2006, starting from 45 gr, it is precisely at the end of 2015. [[And the market?]] ...from 86 to 95 gr has been increased the limit of pennies, apart from that... [[And the market?]] ...golden. As you have noted, fuel has increased by more than 1 PLN by November, but you have not already added that this fuel has fallen from the beginning of December to the current situation above 1 PLN. So it should be quite constructive here. As I said, there is a position of the government, let us work on this project, we thank the Members of the House for this parliamentary initiative. [[The campaign hasn't started yet.]] Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I ask that you proceed as urgently as possible so that these farmers can benefit from this excise duty refund, and this situation was simply explained to the end. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u179	Thank you very much. The representative of the applicants of Mr Robert Telus, please. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u180	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! For starters, I would like to thank you very much for the voices that have been cast here on behalf of the clubs. This shows that in these important matters, however, we all want to work for the good of farmers - and this is very important. It was here that the Minister of Entrepreneurship was guilty, the officials were guilty, the ministers, the Members were guilty. I wouldn't consider it that way in terms of guilt or guilt. You know, there are situations at work. These codes didn't come in the chart, they didn't. We fix it, we react very quickly to... [[Order...]] ...the farmers' request. And that's probably the most important thing to react quickly, so that nobody gets hurt about it. This situation is very quickly clarified and repaired - and this is probably a very, very important thing. Mr Ajchler twice, and in his question, and in his speech, he said that the price of fuel had increased. Mr. Speaker! Let me remind you of a quote, and I would like to ask you who said this, whose quote is this: And now the fuel can be even 7 zlotys. I think you know who said that. [[I don't remember.]] The fuel is even below 5 PLN, not after 7 as your boss suggested it would be, and at this point it's cheaper. Of course we all want the fuel to be cheaper. I think you want to, and everyone else, and there's nothing to outrun. There was a time when it went down, right now it's cheap fuel, and well, hopefully it's cheap, hopefully so. [[Maybe he was thinking about...]] Yeah, I think so. And as far as this quote is concerned, I think you know exactly who said it, and there's no point in us talking about it. The Member, Kukiz's representative,15, asked what the cost was, who lost on it, how much he lost. I think, Mr President, that farmers have not lost, because they will get the money they have been billing for all the invoices since the beginning of the year. I don't know how to count your work. You've been standing here for three minutes and you said, I think it's like a cost that could be calculated. It's like the only cost that can be, because here I don't see any other costs. I'm sure no one's lost it. Mr Polak asked if it would cover all invoices. Yes, sir, all the invoices that will be submitted, including this code. The minister already explained that if there's no code, there's no problem. If one of the stations entered the code and entered the code which is not in the list, then there was a problem, and now from 1 January all these invoices will be accepted. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, one thing. Of course, there was confusion, we know that there was confusion, we react quickly, but all the farmers who somehow suffered in this confusion, because they wanted to file documents, and not all the municipal authorities reacted well - from some offices called, asked about cases, talked, and sent some farmers away, and here as if there was a problem - all the farmers who somehow suffered because of it, maybe in some way stressful way, I want to apologize very sincerely. We will always react quickly, if needed, and this is an example of how we react quickly, repair, if something comes up, something is somehow wrong. I think it's probably a good symptom, and I hope that's what's going on. Once again, I am addressing the High House, all the clubs, so that we may adopt this law at this meeting. I would also like to thank the Member of the Polish People's Party. I think it's a good attitude that you can't blame the officials right away, punish them right away, throw them away, as some people suggest. Of course, that's what happens in normal jobs. He's just not wrong who doesn't do anything. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[You're the one who's wrong all the time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u181	Thank you very much. In the correction procedure, Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u182	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! He did not understand my question at all, or he does not know the basic economic data. The day of work of the High Chamber is about PLN 1 million. I know you don't respect my time, much less, but this is the time that taxpayers paid for. And I am very sorry that you do not respect farmers' time and you despise this time, because farmers have gone to the commune, submitted documents or some of these documents and will have to go and file those documents again. So it's all calculated, sir. The seriousness and responsibility for public money first. And you can make fun of me, of course, because that's why I'm here, if that's what you enjoy. But it's about thinking ahead and not writing on your knees, with mistakes. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u183	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, a request was made to proceed immediately to the second reading of the bill without referring to the committee. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 26 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government's draft law amending the Real Estate Management Act (Prints 3108 and 3127). I would like to ask Mr Bogdan Rzońca to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u184	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Joint Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy and the Committee on Infrastructure, I present a report in print 3127 on the Government's draft law amending the Real Estate Management Act. The High Committees met on 15 January 2019 and propose that the High Sejm adopt the attached draft law. In fact, the draft law refers to the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal of 12 December 2017 and 14 July 2015 and meets the expectations of the Constitutional Tribunal's judgment. On behalf of the joint committees, I recommend that this report be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u185	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jan Kilian, Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u186	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today I have the honour to present the position of the club Law and Justice on the draft law amending the law on real estate management, which aims to execute the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. The first one was the one of 14 July 2015 in which the non-constitutionality of the Article was declared. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 3 The Real Estate Management Act to the extent that it makes the request made by the former co-owner of the expropriated property or its heirs subject to the consent of the other former co-owners of the property or their heirs. The second sentence is that of 12 December 2017, in which the non-constitutionality of the Article was declared. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. In the first sentence, to the extent that it excludes the right of the previous owner or heir to claim the reimbursement of the property acquired by the Treasury or the local government unit by means of an agreement referred to in Article. 114, when the property became redundant for a public purpose justifying its acquisition. The project provides for the possibility of a return to the property which has become redundant for public purposes. In the event of non-refund proceedings by the other entitled parties, their claim for reimbursement shall expire. In addition, the project provides for a limitation in time for the recovery of expropriated property, which will close the period of uncertainty as to the legal situation of the parties concerned and allow the use of the property for purposes other than those specified in the expropriation decision. After the changes, each previous owner or his/her heirs will be able to obtain a refund of the expropriated property regardless of whether the other previous joint owners or their heirs have applied for repayment. The notification of the other entitled pursuant to the new provision shall be made by means of a notice. If, within the prescribed period, the other entitled persons do not submit an application for reimbursement of their participation, their entitlement shall expire. Any previous owner or heir will be able to claim the refund of the expropriated property regardless of the form of acquisition of the property right. The right to return the property will be valid after 20 years. The right to reimbursement shall expire if an appropriate application is not submitted within that period. This means limiting the possibility of recovery of expropriated properties during the period. The termination of the right should close the period of uncertainty as to the legal situation of the parties concerned and create the possibility of using expropriated property but not for public purposes as set out in the expropriation decision for other purposes, e.g. housing. The proposed solution will reduce the number of requests for the return of expropriated immovable property acquired or acquired in the past than 20 years ago. This solution meets the expectations of local government units and associations of tenants. At the same time, it was envisaged that the law could be applied within 3 years from the date of entry into force of the Act with a request for repayment of the expropriated property if, on the date of entry into force of the Act, 20 years had elapsed since the date on which the decision to expropriate it became final, and if no more than 3 years had elapsed by that date. The project is absolutely right - it is an assessment of many specialists in real estate law. Finally, the expected limitation of the claim for reimbursement after 20 years will be introduced, as it is difficult to understand the meaning of the regulation allowing reimbursement after 60 years of expropriation. The draft law does not require notification of the aid scheme. The regulations introduced do not constitute public aid: the proposed rules do not relate to the flow of funds, they do not provide an economic advantage for the public authorities. The project complies with European Union legislation and does not require presentation to the competent authorities and institutions of the European Union. It's one of those billing projects, maybe a few, uncontroversial ones, I think. It is expected by different environments, by citizens. Therefore, on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I ask the High House to adopt this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u187	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u188	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Club, I present an opinion on the government proposal for a law on amending the Real Estate Management Act. The aim of the project is to implement the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal of 14 July 2015 and 12 December 2017. In its judgment of 14 July 2015, the Constitutional Tribunal pointed out the non-constitutionality of the provisions requiring the consent of all joint owners of the property concerned or their heirs when applying for repayment of the expropriated property. The amendment of the Act introduces the possibility to seek the return of the expropriated property by each co-owner individually, irrespective of the consent of the other owners. The Constitutional Tribunal also held that it was not possible to repay the expropriated property by contract. Until now, it has been possible to return the expropriated property through an administrative decision. The draft amendment therefore provides for the possibility of returning the expropriated property through both the administrative decision and the contract. In addition, the purpose of the draft law is to guarantee legal certainty in respect of immovable property covered by the Article. 136 of the Real Estate Management Act - this is an article about the possibility of returning the expropriated property over a period of 7 years in the absence of construction or 10 years in the absence of completion - by introducing a 20-year period after which the entitlement to return the expropriated property expires. After these 20 years, you will no longer be able to return the property. The aim of the proposed solution is to balance the private interest and the public interest. On the one hand, the proposed solution restricts the possibility of seeking the return of expropriated properties at the time, while on the other hand it provides a three-year transitional period in which entitled persons may claim the return of expropriated properties. However, we have doubts as to whether the limitation to 20 years of time in which the possibility of returning expropriated property will not be detrimental to expropriated owners or their heirs. Now this time is not defined, but there are different family and inheritance circumstances. A 3-year transition period may also be insufficient. However, these are positive changes resulting from the decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal, which is why the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club will vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u189	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15. There's no envoy. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u190	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Polish People's Party Club - the European Union of Democrats will support this government project, this solution. We think it's right and necessary. After all, the aim of this project is to implement two provisions of the Constitutional Tribunal - from 2015 and 2017. In our view, the time mentioned and spoken of by my previous speakers - 20 years - is clearly, clearly and quite clearly defined. We can certainly wonder whether it is long enough for ex-owners who have a legal chance of regaining their property, to which they have passed their rights to another owner or to another entity by expropriation, to submit such requests. Nevertheless, it must be acknowledged that this time has to be determined. It has been defined for 20 years and I think that if this is made public, we can feel that we have fulfilled our mission and role. In addition, mechanisms, roads, paths for both owners and co-owners as to the requirements that need to be met in order to be a participant in the property recovery procedure in a given particular case. I think that this solution should be used for local governments and other entities to regulate and set their assumptions about real estate management. As I said at the beginning, your marshal, our club will vote in favour of this solution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u191	Thank you very much, sir. I very much wanted to welcome the association of the Historical Population Reconstruction Group of Mława, which is listening to our deliberations today. Welcome back, folks. [[Applause]] I invite Mr Mirosław Suchon now. The Member has made a statement in writing. Who among you and your fellow Members would like to ask another question? If nobody, I'm closing the list. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, asks the first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u192	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There are now almost 5 thousand in Poland. family gardens. They occupy an area of almost 44 thousand. ha. The contested law raises the concerns of landowners as to the rules for the return of immovable property unnecessary for the purpose of expropriation. They are concerned about mass re-privatization claims for public property, including property occupied by parcel gardens. It should be borne in mind that, in the absence of the purpose of expropriation, many family gardens were built on expropriated properties. This brings the spectre of the return of the land. The bill increases the rights of former owners, granting them a period of three years to lodge claims. Therefore, I refer to [[♪ The bell ♪]] Question: Will appropriate action be taken to eliminate the provisions threatening family gardens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u193	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u194	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I wanted to ask what extent this problem is being solved, i.e. How many real estate returns do you expect each year? Are there any calculations that show how far the problem is being solved? The second question concerns the cost of the return of unexploited real estate, as it is known that there will be related distributions of real estate, the establishment and renewal of borders, various geodetic activities and notarial activities. Will the applicant bear these costs? To what extent? Is it appropriate for all costs to be borne by an elder as an authority which makes reimbursements? The public objective could have different natures, belonging to different entities, e.g. municipalities or the State Treasury. Here these activities are performed by an old-timer, who I think [[♪ The bell ♪]] He's gonna have to pay for it. If so, to what extent? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u195	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u196	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to ask: What will be the situation of entities, long-standing people, or their heirs? Until now, there has been no limited period within which you can apply for compensation or for reimbursement of your property. If we introduce 20 years, and someone has been expropriated for a very long time, they may not be aware that the bill has been amended and that it now applies for 20 years. I understand that this may apply, and this is correct, to those owners that we will possibly expropriate for public purposes now, because in the expropriation process they will be explained to them what further possibilities they have in terms of further steps. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But what about those who had been expropriated a few decades earlier? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u197	Thank you very much, Member. Last question, Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u198	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The statement of reasons indicates that, in accordance with the draft law, the accession of other joint owners or their heirs to the restitution proceedings will only be possible within the prescribed time limit. However, in order to ensure the stability of legal relations, the projector proposes a deadline of 3 months for the notification carried out by means of a notice of the initiation of the feedback procedure. I would like to ask whether, given the frequent difficulties in such cases, the three-month deadline will be sufficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u199	Thank you very much, sir. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development of Mr. Arthur Soboń to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u200	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for this discussion and for the declaration of support of the law by all clubs participating in this debate. By law, we are actually executing the judgment of the Constitutional Court, hence the answer to Mrs Navel. There's nothing here but the execution of the sentence. There is also no reprivatization. And as for whether this 3-year period is appropriate, we have here confirmation and the Legislative Council and the RCL. You always have to take some time in which we have this transition period. Mrs Chmiel asked if he was too short. Member, isn't he going to be long? We refer to practice, for example. as regards environmental law claims. This 3-year period is sanctioned by law. In the case of PZD or anyone else, there is no difference except to allow the reimbursement of those who have been permitted by the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, and that is it. So much for the difference. Mrs Chmiel asked whether this was to the detriment of her, and then asked questions about those for whom a very long period has passed since her expropriation. We're introducing this 3-year border period. [[But this is a short period.]] And I would like to say to you that as regards the analogy to claims, for example. From the Civil Code, 20 years is a period of time. So it's really long... [[30.]] Yeah, in good faith. [[In good faith, 20.]] But then without any compensation, so this is really... [[In good faith, 20 and 30?]] ...a long time, this is what we have adopted, and you know why, 10 + 10, and you yourself have said so. Seems like a good solution. On the other hand, I will answer Mr Wilczyński's question. In the period 1998 to 2018, such cases were 4242. If there's more, we'll see. And that's the scale. There's no notary here because these are administrative decisions. Real estate divisions may indeed be involved, but all costs are borne by the elderly, as the honourable Member has rightly pointed out here. It's just that we're not changing anything here, that's what happens today in these proceedings. The same is true of what Mr Gonciusz asked. We also do not change this 3-month period here, which is already a practice in return proceedings under the Real Estate Management Act. I hope I answered all the questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u201	Thank you. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u202	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the government draft law amending the Real Estate Management Act following the presentation of the audit of committees, prints no. 3108 and 3127. High Izbo! The draft amendments to the Law of 21 August 1997 on the management of immovable property submitted by the Government are intended to comply with two judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal. In accordance with the first of them, of 14 July 2015, sygn. Act SK 26/14, in which the non-constitutionality of Article is declared. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. The first sentence of the said Act should be amended in so far as the request made by the former co-owner of the expropriated property or its heirs is subject to the consent of the other former co-owners of the property or their heirs. On the other hand, for the purpose of implementing the second judgment, dated 12 December 2017, sygn. Act SK 39/15, in which the non-constitutionality of Article is determined. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. The first sentence of the Act on Real Estate Management should be amended to the extent that the provisions of the Act exclude the right of the previous owner or heir to the refund of the property acquired by the State Treasury or the local government entity by means of an agreement referred to in Article. Article 114 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Act when the property became redundant for a public purpose justifying its acquisition. In addition, as indicated in the explanatory memorandum, the draft contains regulations aimed at guaranteeing legal certainty in respect of immovable property covered by the Article. 136 Real Estate Management Act by introducing the expiry date of the right to refund the expropriated property. First of all, I would like to point out that the implementation of the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal should take place as a matter of urgency, especially if the matter concerns matters relevant to citizens, and certainly property issues fall within this category of cases. In this particular situation, two parties often have divergent interests. On the one hand, there are owners deprived of their assets, and on the other hand, present users who live in uncertainty for many years. However, it was only after four years that the government undertook to execute the first sentence. This raises legitimate systemic doubts about the certainty of rights and the stability of property relations. It is therefore very negative to assess the extremely long delay in preparing a legal solution, which in addition extends the time needed to establish final property relations in view of the solutions adopted. However, at the committee meeting, Members agreed on the direction of the changes adopted. There were doubts as to time limits, including a period of 20 years for applying for reimbursement and a period of 3 years for lodging claims. We have accepted the Minister's explanations, although they do not fully resolve our doubts. However, after the meeting of the committee, we realized the position of the Polish Landowners' Union indicating many dangers. As a result of the solutions adopted several decades earlier, we are dealing with a situation in which some areas occupied by family gardens may be subject to reprivatisation processes. The relationship therefore points to four fundamental dangers: firstly, the danger of disenfranchising persons who have invested in infrastructure in good faith over the years; secondly, the danger of decomposing uniform areas that have been formed for years in the form of parcel gardens; thirdly, the need to pay high amounts of compensation by local authorities that are not financially prepared for this process by the government; fourthly, the possibility of increasing so-called actions. The reprivatization mob. In addition, there was a question to the Minister about why the government did not invite the Polish Landowners' Union to consult on the bill, although we all know that the land gardens had or have half of Poland, while the relationship itself brings together people with such gardens. It's a big oversight. Therefore, although the Modern Club agrees with the direction adopted by the Act, we are in the position that further clarification is needed on the issues raised by me. That is why I ask the Minister to respond to the issues that I have raised. We will decide on the future of this law after hearing the explanations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u203	To the third... [[Can I ask you another question?]] Sorry, I closed the discussion. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. The Commission for Energy and Treasury has submitted a report on the Parliament's draft law amending the Act amending the excise duty law and certain other laws, the Law amending the Law on Liquid Biocomponents and biofuels and certain other laws, the Environmental Law, the Law on greenhouse gas emission management and other substances, and the Act on the promotion of electricity from high-efficiency cogeneration, print No 3220. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the wheels. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to the examination of item 27 of the agenda: Information of the Government of the Republic of Poland on the activities undertaken in 2017 for the implementation of the resolution of the Polish Sejm of 1 August 1997. Charter of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (Print No 2807), together with the position of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs (Print No 3091). Mr Krzysztof Michałkiewicz, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, would like to speak in order to present the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u204	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very pleased to be able to present another information to the Government of the Republic of Poland about the actions undertaken in 2017 for the implementation of the resolution of the Polish Sejm of August 1, 1997. The Charter of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in § 3 of the resolution obliges the Government of the Republic of Poland to prepare annually information about initiatives and actions taken to implement the rights of persons with disabilities in a given year as defined in the Seym Resolution. The project was prepared by the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy on the basis of information gathered from all ministries and elected offices concerning the implementation of the Charter. In this information, thick information, because it was, as I said, prepared by all ministries and elected offices, we have a description of the actions carried out which were continued or undertaken in 2017 by the Ministry and the Offices within the framework of their powers and powers to implement the rights set out in the Seym Resolution. Nor do I hide that we believe, even though there are many changes and new documents, this is particularly about the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, that the fact that we have the Charter on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is important. It is an important commitment for public authorities to make efforts to ensure that all persons with disabilities have the rights set out in the resolution. Numerous actions were undertaken in 2017. Like I said, they're in the document, so I'm not gonna refer them all. I would like to talk about some of the most important actions taken in 2017 and leave you time to ask questions. The most important policies that were adopted in 2017 were the health policy programme to implement the family support programme. This health policy programme has taken a number of actions, important actions for people and children with disabilities, with various disabilities, among others. in the coordination of neonatological and paediatric care for children as part of early rehabilitation of children. We also funded milk banks for newborns and infants. The President of the NFZ in 2017 introduced a number of new benefits which were directly dedicated to people with disabilities, among others. child care coordinated, coordinated care of persons with overall development disorders and perinatal palliative care. The regulation of the Minister of Health amended the regulation on palliative and hospice care benefits. It introduced a new provision guaranteed in the field of palliative and hospice care and perinatal palliative care. I do not hide that I think this is a very important issue, because these prenatal hospices, which previously functioned on a voluntary basis, were social activities. Often they had to fight for their consent to operate in maternity wards. In the context of social rehabilitation in 2017, a great deal of emphasis was placed on facilitating the return of disabled carers to the labour market, especially unemployed carers of disabled people. A number of services, labour market instruments have been introduced that have enabled them to start a business or return to the labour market. It was important and it served, I think, the carers. As we remember, not only is the caretaker directly, but in fact the whole family is involved in providing support for a family member who is disabled. Within the framework of the Ministry of Education, the Minister of Education has undertaken a number of work related to the new assessment, diagnosis or ruling on the special educational needs of children with disabilities. He started by setting up a team of experts to develop model solutions based on the assumptions of functional diagnosis. The International Classification of Functionality, Disability and Health, ICF, was widely used in this diagnosis and support process. These solutions, which then began to be developed, now allow for a more accurate and reliable assessment of the educational needs of children and young people. The second task, which seems to be important, undertaken as part of the Ministry of Education's activities, was to set up education support centres for special school and education centres. These education support centres provide consulting services, provide consultations for teachers and parents, conduct classes in public institutions, and rent equipment, textbooks and educational materials tailored to the needs of students with different disabilities. We have seen a number of positive changes in the labour market. In 2017, the employment rate of disabled people increased by 2.6 percentage points and reached 26.3%. Unemployment rate it has also clearly fallen, i.e. by 2,3 percentage points, and it was 9,3%. Thus, the labour force participation rate of people with disabilities of working age increased by 2.1 percentage points compared to 2016 and ultimately amounted to 28,9%. In 2016, it was 26.8% so these positive changes are really clear and noteworthy. This does not change the fact that one in three people with disabilities of working age are still not active. This is a big challenge for all those who are working on it and are trying to change this situation. It is worth noting that, as part of the support for professional rehabilitation, the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities started the implementation of three programmes, new programmes which would affect the facilitation of the employment of persons with disabilities. The first of these programmes was the student programme. Prior to that, PFRON implemented - and is implementing - a student programme that facilitates, enables and co-finances young people with disabilities at various universities. On the other hand, we have always seen that what in other areas was easier to find employment, for people with disabilities, was not necessarily so obvious. Thus, the program is a graduate, which aims to facilitate the employment of people with disabilities with higher education. He still enjoys interest, also in later years, in 2018, 2019, is continued. The second programme, which was also analysed after the first year of operation and was discussed in December on how to make it more effective, i.e. stable employment - people with disabilities in administration and public service. The third programme, which was aimed at facilitating the employment of people with disabilities in the open labour market, was called "Work - Integration." These programmes were intended to support and facilitate the employment of disabled people and employers. In 2017, the High Sejm also adopted a law amending the Social Cooperatives Act and some other laws. As part of this change, we have introduced a number of changes that directly concern the professional rehabilitation of people with disabilities. Firstly, a workshop participant in occupational therapy can take part in free professional practices with the employer, including social cooperatives. Secondly, the possibility of transferring one-off measures from PFRON to a disabled person was extended to take up activities in the form of a social cooperative. In addition, the social cooperative may receive once from PFRON the funds to create a job for the disabled person's district labour office and, at the same time, the funds to finance the wage costs, up to 6 months from the date of conclusion of the contract with the old woman, paid monthly at a rate of not higher than the lowest salary for a period of not more than 6 months for an employed disabled person directed by the district labour office. The Ministry of Infrastructure continued to remove functional barriers. All ministries and KPRM clearly indicated that they are working on the availability of buildings in every resort and many of them are already accessible to people with disabilities, including wheelchairs or blind and hearing impaired. In 2017, the Ministry of Culture emphasized the provision of museums for people with disabilities, as well as special offers for people with disabilities, taking into account their needs, physical and mental abilities. A number of actions have been linked to the use of European funds for people with disabilities. In addition to programmes directly dedicated to support for people with disabilities, this has been undertaken, continued and has led to the introduction of accessibility standards within the framework of the guidelines for implementing European programmes. These accessibility standards have been introduced, are mandatory for all projects and are intended to force European measures to be implemented taking into account accessibility standards for people with disabilities and by entities that take into account these standards. At the same time, the procedure was finalised in 2017 as regards support for the application of the principle of accessibility in the form of advice to staff of EU fund managers and the ongoing monitoring of projects for the application of the principle of accessibility for persons with disabilities. Ladies and gentlemen, this report, as I say, is comprehensive and provides information on what is happening in these resorts. This does not change the fact that we still know that this is a process that the implementation of the Charter of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities requires our further action. On the other hand, it is worth noting that the needs of people with disabilities, accessibility barriers are beginning to become more widespread in public awareness, and it is becoming easier to discuss this with individual institutions, as well as with particular public opinion groups. I am ready, if you have any interest in this report, to answer all the questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u205	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Anita Czerwinska to speak in order to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u206	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, I present a report on the information of the Government of the Republic of Poland on the activities undertaken in 2017 for the implementation of the resolution of the Polish Sejm of 1 August 1997. This document was received by the Sejm on 6 August 2018. On 30 August 2018, the Marshal of the Sejm sent it to the committee for consideration. On 11 December 2018, the committee considered the above information and adopted a request from the committee to adopt it. On behalf of the committee, I ask the High House to accept information. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u207	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Ewa Kozanecka, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u208	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present a position concerning information on the government of the Republic of Poland on the activities undertaken in 2017 for the implementation of the resolution of the Polish Sejm of 1 August 1997. The document shall contain a description of the actions implemented, continued and undertaken in 2017 by the ministries and offices within the framework of their powers and the statutory powers to exercise the rights laid down in the resolution. The document identifies key actions taken in 2017 to implement the rights of persons with disabilities, describes their results, as well as worrying trends and long-term measures designed to prevent negative trends. The most important element of this information is the issue of the health policy programme, which served to implement the comprehensive family support programme. It is a life-cycle programme for the years 2017 and 2021. I would like to remind you that the implementation of the programme started on 1 January 2017. The actions undertaken under this programme are aimed at people with disabilities and their families. This programme includes comprehensive solutions, in particular in areas concerning support for pregnant women, their families, early child support and their family, support services, rehabilitation, housing support, as well as coordination of support, guidance and information. It takes action in the areas of health care, social rehabilitation, education, the labour market, infrastructure, culture, sustainable access for people with disabilities to emergency services, the use of European funds for people with disabilities. The summary shows that most people with disabilities of working age are still outside the labour market despite significant subsidised support from the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities and the State budget. This problem also concerns public institutions which have not yet reached the statutory 6% employment rate for disabled people in the majority. The employment of people with disabilities in the civil service is also unsatisfactory despite the introduction in 2011 of changes favourable to people with disabilities in the Act. Information also shows that ministries and central offices are interested in increasing the employment of people with disabilities. Long-term measures are possible to implement these demands for people with disabilities by successive increases in the employment of people with disabilities, in particular inactive people of working age, especially in the context of demographic change in the country. The promotion of employment of people with disabilities in civil service should also continue, inter alia. through training of civil servants, conference meetings, seminars, as well as measures to encourage ministries and central offices to establish closer cooperation with non-governmental organisations in support of people with disabilities in the labour market. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of the information of the Government of the Republic of Poland on the actions undertaken in 2017 for the implementation of the resolution of the Polish Sejm of 1 August 1997. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u209	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Sławomir Piechota, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u210	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - Civic Coalition on government information about the actions undertaken in 2017 to implement the resolutions of the Polish Parliament resolution of 1 August 1997. As the Minister pointed out, the execution of the card is a process that is long-lasting and demanding consequences and patience. And the realization of this card already has its own tradition. Therefore, when we evaluate the implementation of the Charter on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in 2017, we point out that this process was characterised by many negative phenomena of our highest concern. These are negative phenomena arising from the action of the Law and Justice. Among these negative developments, we particularly want to highlight, firstly, the intention to deprive people with disabilities of the possibility of voting in correspondence, of which, after social protests, some have been withdrawn, while retaining a limited number of correspondence voting, only for persons with a judgment of a significant or moderate degree of disability, and this means that, above all, the elderly and others, without a ruling, are currently unable to vote in correspondence. To this end, Mr Łukasz Schreiber, on 14 December 2017 in the Sejm on behalf of the Members of the PIS, pointed out that disabled people can trade votes. Secondly, the intention to deprive disabled people of the possibility of voting by correspondence was not an accident or accident at work. PiS had previously demanded that people with disabilities vote in correspondence as opposed to the constitution, as well as that of a proxy vote. Thirdly, the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 21 October 2014 on the benefit to guardians of adult disabled persons was still not implemented, and, after all, the implementation of that judgment in 2013, which was almost 6 years ago, was requested by PiS Members represented before the Constitutional Tribunal by Marek Asta and Stanisław Swed. The government of PO-PSL at the end of its term of office in 2015 prepared a draft law implementing that judgment and reserved the funds needed for the implementation of the law in the budget for 2016. However, despite more than 3 years of government of the PiS, the sentence has not yet been passed. completed and will not be completed until the end of the term of office in the absence of time. Fourthly, the PiS argues that it cannot comply with the abovementioned judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal or take various other measures for the benefit of persons with disabilities until there is a new system of case-law on the degree of disability. However, according to the order of the President of the Council of Ministers of February 2017, the draft of the new system of case law was to be ready by 31 March 2018 at the latest, i.e. a year ago. When this deadline passed, further scheduled dates were given: first June 2018, then September 2018. All deadlines have passed, and the project remains classified. All we know is that the president of the ZUS was appointed and was handed over to Minister Elizabeth Rafalska. It is therefore clear that there will be no new disability case law in this term of office. Fifthly, Prime Minister Beata Szydło and Minister Elżbieta Rafalska announced at the press conference in January 2017 that 5,000 would be set up in the course of the year. new jobs for people with disabilities in public institutions. After that, however, it was never returned to the case, and to this day it is not known where these places are. Finally, for the first time in 10 years in 2017, the employment of people with disabilities in the civil service decreased by 233 people, although at the same time total employment in the civil service increased by 534 posts and, in terms of directorial and managerial positions, this employment increase was 52%. Therefore, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - the Civic Coalition will vote against information because the Charter of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is grossly violated and the rights of persons with disabilities in our country are seriously threatened. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u211	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Agnieszka Chasing, Kukiz club15. There isn't. Mr Jarubas made a statement in writing. Please, Mrs Monica Rosa, the Modern Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u212	Mrs. Marshalkini! Minister! High Izbo! Government information on the actions taken in 2017 to implement the resolution of the Sejm The Charter of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is a good time to summarize - highlighting achievements, drawing conclusions from errors and creating an action plan for the future. Today we are talking about solidarity, we are talking about fundamental human rights to a decent, independent life and we are asking ourselves: Are we sufficiently solidarity with people with disabilities? We still remember the protest of people with disabilities in the Sejm and their guardians. We remember the faces and words of Cuba, Adrian, Kinga, Magdy, Victoria and their guardians. Those were days of fighting and solidarity. But does every day have to be a fight for dignity? Ask yourself, " Has everything been done well? ' How much more to do? The actions that the government considered to be successful were mentioned in the report and in the Minister's speech. Hence my questions about the following issues. First, the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 1 October 2014 ordered equalisation of benefits for carers of adults with disabilities with benefits for carers of children with disabilities. The Court pointed out that Article. 69 of the Constitution requires the legislator to take action to ensure effective support for people with disabilities. An important form of this assistance is the cash benefit to caretakers. Will this sentence be executed in this term of office, Minister? Do you not consider it appropriate to equalise these benefits? Secondly, the question of case law. It is a uniform system for determining disability, which should be developed with the participation of organisations bringing together persons with disabilities. During the committee meeting, we were informed that the work had been done, that the material was prepared. We would like to get to know him and ask him what is the next action plan, whether this system of case-law in this term of office of the Sejm will still be introduced. Thirdly, repealing the rules allowing the incapacity of persons with disabilities and establishing mechanisms to support decisions which respect the autonomy and will of the person concerned. The unmarried person cannot exercise his/her right to vote, cannot be a member of a political party, cannot hold assemblies, cannot marry, cannot exercise parental authority over his/her/her children. I wanted to ask you what work has been done so far if it has been done. Fourthly, the question of the Penal Code, which does not regard hate crimes against persons with disabilities as a particular type of criminal offence. This is the bill we made during this term of office of the Sejm. Unfortunately, it was rejected. The UN Committee has adopted a lot of recommendations for Poland to implement the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. I'd like to ask you about a few of them. First of all, attention has been paid to the situation of women with disabilities. It is about the lack of protection against domestic and institutional violence, the lack of respect for reproductive rights, difficult access to education, the labour market. The Committee considered improving the situation of women with disabilities and combating discrimination as one of the priority tasks for Poland. According to the 2016 CSO, out of 26 thousand. clinics and medical practices 14.6% did not have any adjustment for persons with disabilities, but only less than 4,3% The clinic was adapted to the needs of the blind. Hence my question: Will there be any work done to ensure that these units are adapted to the needs of people with not only physical disabilities, but also to all others? Another issue is recommendations related to the right to independent living in the local community. Today, many people live in institutions such as social services homes for lack of alternatives, and active life without support from an assistant for many is impossible. Another issue is to move away from terminology such as mental impairment, inability to work, inability to perform social roles. The issue of training for officials, judges, law enforcement officers, teachers, staff to raise their awareness and opportunities to work with people with disabilities. It is also a question of stopping the use of conversion therapy and supporting people with psychosocial disabilities respecting their gender identity, sexual orientation. Such a project was submitted by us today in the Seym. Minister, I wanted to ask you if you're satisfied with how the law and institutions treat people with disabilities. And what do you think is a priority for the next few months?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u213	Thank you very much, Member. Let's get to the questions. Who among you and your fellow Members would like to ask another question? If there are no reports, I'm closing the list. Ms Tomaszewska, Law and Justice, is the first question asked by Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska. Time -1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u214	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My question concerns the situation of deaf people. I would like to ask if a particular culture of communication between deaf people is included in the teacher education process? It is even as simple a recommendation as not to enter between sign - language communicators or in the course of a speech, not to turn away from those who read from their mouths. Without getting acquainted with the specifics of contacts with this group of people with disabilities, the use of sign language translators alone will not prevent them from being excluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u215	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Michael Szczerba. There isn't. Mrs Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłocka, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u216	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! In January 2017, Prime Minister Szydło and Minister Rafalska announced the uprising of 5 thousand. new jobs for people with disabilities in public institutions. I would like to ask the Minister where these jobs are. In 2017, employment increased by 534 jobs in the civil service. The record fell in executive and executive positions. That's where the growth was 52%. However, the number of disabled people employed fell by 233 people. Between 2010 and 2016, 1560 people with disabilities arrived in the civil service. Hence my question. What's going on in the civil service? Why is she so reluctant to hire people with disabilities? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why can't he appreciate the skills of people with disabilities? Just why doesn't he like them so much? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u217	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Sławomir Piechota, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u218	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! In a manner of continuing the question that Mrs Mrzygłocka raised, I would like to ask you about hiring people with disabilities in the civil service. We often hear that these people do not come forward, and here from the government's information for 2017, data are given on how many people with disabilities have come forward, wanting to be employed in these civil service institutions. 24 people came to the Chancellery of the Prime Minister. No one was hired. 16 people applied to the Ministry of National Education. One person was hired. 23 people came to the Main Building Authority. No one was hired. 290 people applied to the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund. 21 people were hired. In total, 1742 people with disabilities came forward in the institutions indicated in the government's information and 131 were employed, i.e. only 7.5% That's less than every tenth of those who came forward were hired. So why is civil service - I repeat Mrs Mrzygłocka's question - so reluctant to hire people with disabilities? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u219	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Rajmund Miller, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u220	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask you a question about the supply of orthopedics and medical supplies for people with disabilities. Minister, what's your opinion on the limits on such objects? Disabled people report problems that these limits are too low, e.g. for hearing aid it is 1200 zł, for cart it is 1700 zł. These are measures that are not sufficient to buy really good quality cameras or wheelchairs, and are therefore wasted. Of course, these people with disabilities buy them at these limits, but they are of low quality both cameras and carts. A good wheelchair meeting the requirements of a disabled person costs several thousand zlotys. A good camera costs over 2,000, too. zł. Isn't the Minister thinking of increasing these limits so as not to waste these resources, because these objects [[♪ The bell ♪]] are then simply not used? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u221	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u222	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! One of the first barriers that people with disabilities can face are, above all, those occurring on an architectural or organisational level within the local government. I would like to ask: Was the result of the actions undertaken in 2017 in the field of also the tasks of local government units sent to them with comments or suggestions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u223	Thank you very much, sir. And Mrs Urszula Rusecka, Law and Justice. [[I was saved, too.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u224	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Of course, there are still a lot of things to do for people with disabilities... [[Please sign me in.]] ...but it is difficult for me to agree with the opinion of the Civic Platform who wants to reject this report. There is little time, so I will not detail the programmes that have been introduced under the rule of law and justice for people with disabilities. On the other hand, I have a question for the Minister as regards employment in the civil service. Yes, it is probably too small, but also a small number of applications submitted by people with disabilities to competitions in administration. I have a question for the Minister: Did these indicators improve in 2018? At the moment, we are adopting the 2017 report, and I am interested in what it looks like in 2018. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u225	Thank you very much, Member. And the last question will be asked by Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u226	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Prime Minister Szydło and Minister Rafalska announced in a press conference in January 2017 that 5,000 would be created. new jobs for people with disabilities. I want you to tell me where these jobs came from. Minister! When will the benefit be provided to adult carers with disabilities? That's how you treat people with disabilities. There's no money for the disabled. May I ask: What was the amount of prizes, bonuses or other gratifications for Minister Rafalska broken down by year: 2016, 2017, 2018? How much was the Minister's basic salary? What kind of education does the Minister have? I'm asking you to write it down. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The answer. There's a problem somewhere. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u227	Thank you very much. And I ask the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Minister Krzysztof Michałkiewicz to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u228	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am extremely grateful that such an important topic as the problems of people with disabilities has been expressed in this discussion, in these questions. I do not know that Minister Rafalska is disabled, but I understand that it is important how the ministers earn. Certainly less than department directors, so it's often easier to find a department director than to hire a deputy minister. When it comes to the subject of people with disabilities, I do not hide that I am grateful because discussions about the situation of people with disabilities can never be too much. It seems to me that the fact that we are discussing information here in the High House, the implementation of the Charter on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, is an event that should be taken seriously. When it comes to club speeches, I listened with interest to Mr Sławomir Piechota and signed with two hands what he said about the trial. We are talking about a process that has been going on since the Charter on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities was adopted. Of course, what we do every year is more important, but... On the one hand, these needs are certainly still big, and on the other hand, there is nothing to hide that, with changing the socio-economic situation in our country, the needs of people with disabilities are also changing. In the first question, the Member spoke a lot about the vote and the access of people with disabilities to this right, which they have, of course, the right to exercise. I listened with interest to him saying that the social pressure, the debate, the protests caused this correspondence vote to be maintained. Surely it is worth noting that the Sejm, the legislative body, responds to how different legislative ideas are received by the groups concerned. He also spoke a lot about the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2014. Unfortunately, in 2014, I was not in charge, so it's hard for me to say... [[But you rule three years.]] ...why such a law was adopted. On the other hand, I am sure you know, and you know that it has been adopted, among others. because it has not been remembered that serious cases require serious systemic approaches and solutions, not ad hoc ones. Therefore, the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, after trying to correct the bill, was as it was. Mr Piechota also said that in 2015 a draft law was prepared that carried out the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. On the other hand, we know that the end of the term of office is also the end of all the projects. And about the fact that this bill was not passed, one can only complain about the coalition which was then ruled, because she did not have time to carry out such an important bill by the Sejm, which was already prepared. He also spoke a lot about the team that worked on developing a new system of ruling in our country. The younger Members may not know, but it was the third team that worked on it. The two previous ones, unfortunately, failed. On the other hand, the new system of judgment certainly requires time and a large public debate and broad consultation, because it is too serious to be implemented quickly. The team, on the other hand, had the task of preparing a report. This report was passed on, the Member spoke about the Minister, and he was first of all sent to the Prime Minister, because it was by the Prime Minister's resolution that the Council of Ministers appointed this team to evaluate the current systems and develop guidelines that will serve to prepare new solutions. The third point that the Member has talked about is employment in the civil service. I didn't take it here... It's about information. I'll take it because it's important. The Member knows, I know, Mrs Mrzygłocka knows and everyone who works in the Social Policy Committee knows that we have been talking about insufficient levels of employment in the public sphere in this respect for years, especially in resorts. On the other hand, I wanted to commend you - the Member deserves to know - that this year, for the first time in history, the employment rate in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy exceeded 6%. Let me remind you that the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities has an index of 13.37%, the Main Labour and Social Security Library has an index of 23.26% , and even now it's already 25,35. I stress, however, because I am very proud of this, that for the first time in our ministry we also managed to exceed the rate of 6%. And that's new information. After years of reminding the various ministers, no matter who ruled it, for the first time it turned out that this was possible. The Member spoke about the fact that the level of employment in the civil service has decreased... I was talking about the fact that in 2017 all indicators achieved record results, but there is nothing to hide that society is getting older. Indicators say people of working age. So as far as production age is concerned, the employment rate of people with disabilities has increased, while in absolute numbers employment has decreased. But I suspect that this is more related to the fact that the number of people of working age has decreased. Otherwise it would be inexplicable, how did you... I'll say it again because the Member is shaking his head. Let me repeat, because this is information that is important for the environment of people with disabilities. Once again: As regards the employment rate of people at the end of 2017, the employment rate of people with disabilities of working age increased by 2.6 percentage points compared to the 2016 results when it was 23.7% , and thus reached a record value of 26.3%. In 2016, the indicator was 23.7% , increased by 2.6 percentage points and reached a record value of 26.3%. The unemployment rate fell by 2.3% and it has also reached a value that has not yet been recorded - 9,3%. In 2016, there were 11.6%. The employment rate of people with disabilities of working age increased by 2.1 percentage points compared to 2016 and ultimately reached 28.9 percentage points. In 2016, there were 26,8 percentage points. The Member knows that these values are so high for the first time in terms of labour participation rates, and so low in terms of unemployment rates. So we are not going to discuss here, but I agree and I will repeat once again that this has decreased in absolute terms, and the number of people with disabilities of working age has also decreased. As for Mrs Rosa, you spoke so much about the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal and said so nicely that the Tribunal in its judgment stated that the legislator... I do not know whether you know that the legislator is the Sejm and you are also a member of the Sejm. The Court asked the Sejm to amend the provisions of the Act. As far as the system of case law is concerned, as I said, I believe that this is a very big challenge facing the High House, as well as the government, because the government must prepare these solutions, but there should certainly be a longer perspective here than a bit this year. I think it would be irresponsible if someone said that they were able to change the whole system of case law in our country within six months. Let me remind you that there are already, I don't know, 6 or 7 different systems of case law, and this concerns very many areas of our lives. As far as incapacity is concerned, this is interesting because, of course, the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities does not provide for the possibility of incapacity. Poland has made a reservation. Work is underway at the Ministry of Justice. However, I also believe that it is too easy to use this instrument in our country and that it could also extend the rights, appoint legal guardians who, to a certain extent, would be able to take different kinds of decisions based on the needs of those who are under their care. However, as I said, the Ministry of Justice is working on this, as well as expert work. I hope that soon we will be able to get acquainted with them and start discussing how in our country to limit incapacity, because I think it is too easily used, often for things that do not necessarily require it. Even a visit to a dentist or the location of an intellectually disabled person in a hospital often requires incapacity. This is certainly not a good instrument to use in our situation. As far as the recommendations of the UN committee are concerned, these recommendations were translated after they came out. At the moment, they are on our sites and we have requested information from individual ministries about the planned activities related to the implementation of these recommendations. We are at the beginning of the road in terms of implementation and analysis of these recommendations. Mrs Tomaszewska spoke about deaf people. We remember that barriers to communication are one of those barriers that require a number of actions. I would like to remind you that at the moment, the "Availability+" programme has already been adopted by the Council of Ministers. Work is underway on the Accessibility Act. There, too, barriers to communication are one of those topics that should be at the centre of interest. We will ensure that communication in relation to various disabilities does not constitute a barrier to the functioning of people with disabilities in our society. Mrs Mrzygłocka talks about jobs in administration, but I understand that this is about the whole public sphere. It is difficult, I do not hide, and it is because - I do not know if you remember - in institutions which use public funds, it is not possible to finance the employment of people with disabilities. As part of these projects, which we have been preparing and improving recently, we are looking for such instruments, incentives for public entities that wish to employ people with disabilities. At the same time, they will have compensated for those costs which are related to it, because I will remind you that people with disabilities work less, have longer leave, are more sick, are less efficient. For this reason, in the case of people working in the open labour market, in the protected labour market, we finance this employment for employers. On the other hand, when it comes to employers from public administration, public institutions, we do not pay this subsidy. It would not make sense to finance budgetary units if they have wage funds financed from the budget. We're looking for other instruments. I can even quote them to you because I had them written here somewhere. They're important because it's important that we plan this kind of thing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] which will give public employers greater interest in employing people with disabilities. I'm almost done, quick. I do not hide the fact that I am surprised by Mrs Mrzygłocka, whom I very much value, that she asked as part of the questions: Why does the public administration not like people with disabilities? I think it is not a question of liking or dislike, and the instruments that allow people with disabilities to find work in the civil service and at the same time allow them to prepare for work in the civil service so that they can be active there and enjoy stable employment. Mr Miller asked about medical devices. I agree. I am interested to hear about the fact that some local governments run rentals for rehabilitation equipment. I'm sure it's a step in the right direction. I also remember those rental companies that used to finance PFRON and which after the period when they functioned like this commercialized. I also remember that PFRON subsidises people with disabilities who have problems purchasing medical devices or equipment, their own share. This is certainly related to what the honourable Member was talking about, so that these barriers to access to medical devices or equipment are as small as possible. I will also remind you that on 1 January 2019 the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities started. Within the framework of this fund's action plan, the Ministry of Health has planned 250 million for new health programmes to facilitate and extend access to rehabilitation and rehabilitation equipment and medical devices for people with disabilities. I hope that this programme will address the problems that you are talking about. 250 million is for piloting. During this year, this program will be launched. There will be more next year, Commissioner. On the other hand, it is good that there is 250 million, because surely people with disabilities deserve it. Mr Gonciusz spoke about local governments and the barriers in local governments. Within the framework of the "Availability" programme, we also want to promote good practices in local governments. We want the local authorities to remember that there are people with disabilities among their residents, to remember that the Local Government Act says that the local government is obliged to meet the needs of the local government and within this community - also people with disabilities. This sensitivity to the needs of people with disabilities is clearly increasing and the interest of local authorities in taking various kinds of actions for people with disabilities is visible. Mrs Rusecka spoke about employment...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u229	Come to the end, Minister. Secretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Krzysztof Michałkiewicz: I'm almost done. One last question. Good. Secretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Krzysztof Michałkiewicz: Mrs Rusecka spoke about employment. These figures, which I gave, speaking of the family ministry as an example, refer to the end of 2018. In January 2019 we were able to report that the employment rate in our ministry had already reached more than 6%. Of course, we hope that other resorts will follow our example and will also be willing to employ people with disabilities. This is some kind of challenge for all of us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Minister. In the procedure of correcting Mr Sławomir Piechota. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u230	Thank you, Marshal. Minister, I would like to express my appreciation for the achievement by the Ministry of Labour of 6%. This is indeed a good example and a good example for all other public institutions. On the other hand, Minister, I am amazed by your explanation of why the PiS does not comply with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of October 2014. Do you really think people are so naive, so foolish that they don't understand how far you go, sorry, hypocritical? You demanded this sentence, four years ago this sentence was passed, you've been in charge for three years, and it turns out that in this term you are not going to do what you requested at the time, because there is no money in the budget for this year. Then why don't you execute the sentence you demanded? And this new system of case law. Why is he classified? In October Ub. R. You said that the team passed on [[♪ The bell ♪]] the work of the Minister for Labour. Now you're saying to the Prime Minister. Where's the work? It shouldn't be a secret document. There should be an open public debate on this document...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u231	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u232	...because like you said, it's also a case that can't be solved with one stroke of the pen. This is a very difficult case. But why do you keep it secret? What's in this document? [[Voice from the room: Through the opposition we have.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u233	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u234	Caring for people with disabilities or independence is one of the greatest challenges facing modern social policy. At the same time, it is one of the most recent and least explored sectors of broadly understood social security. This is due both to the fact that care for independent persons is traditionally concentrated within the household and to the fact that the social care area is specifically intersected with the healthcare area. Compared to other European countries, Polish policies on care for independent people are still in the development phase. It is very important to remove barriers. A recent study by the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities shows that the population of people with disabilities is not uniform. There are various problems that the subjects face, but also ways to deal with them. Looking at the lives of people with disabilities through the prism of indicators synthesizing information on quality of life in different areas, it should be noted that the situation is not good. The global quality of life index, which is an average value of sub-indices, has reached a value of 38,5 points per 100 possible. Among the spontaneously identified areas of need, three were dominated, indicated by more than 15% surveyed: first, needs in the area of housing and self-living - 17% , in particular to assist an assistant or nurse in daily activities, adjusting the apartment to the individual needs of the disabled person concerned. The needs in this area were most important for people with mobility disabilities - 25% and for people with intellectual disabilities - 23%. While it was particularly important for people with disabilities to adapt their housing to the individual needs of a disabled person and to have a lower floor or ground floor accommodation, for persons with intellectual disabilities the key in this area was helping an assistant to perform daily activities, relieve the burden of carers, as well as temporary replacement to enable the carer to take up work at least to a small extent or just rest. The second most frequently identified needs were related to instruments, devices or technologies -16%, among others. It is about orthopaedic or optical equipment, equipment that allows, improves hearing and computer equipment, but also various types of everyday devices that help to eliminate disability-related limitations. This area was most important for people with visual impairment - 24%, hearing dysfunction - 20% and with motor disability - 15% . In all these cases, higher interest rates were recorded among people with a significant degree of disability. Another important issue identified by the respondents is the need for transport and movement - 16% , mainly the elimination of architectural barriers in public space, but also the adaptation of the means of transport are especially important for people with motion dysfunction - 25%, as well as with visual dysfunction -14%. The remaining needs of all respondents did not reach more than 9% indications. However, it should be noted that their validity is much higher among groups of disabled people with certain types of disability. In our view, government institutions dealing with the assistance of people with disabilities should focus on these points. Thank you very much. The report presented by the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the National Programme against Violence in the Family for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2015 together with the position of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. The report presented by the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the National Programme against Violence in the Family for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2016 together with the position of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u235	A request for rejection was made in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of items 28, 29 and 30 of the agenda: 28. Report submitted by the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the National Programme against Violence in the Family for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2015 (Print No 937) together with the position of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy (Print No 1154). 29. Report submitted by the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the National Programme against Violence in the Family for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2016 (Print No 1915) together with the position of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy (Print No 2081). 30. Report submitted by the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the National Programme against Violence in the Family for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2017 (Print No 2941) together with the position of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy (Print No 3010). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Minister Stanisław Swed to present the government reports in prints 937, 1915 and 2941 respectively.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u236	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the reports on the implementation of the National Programme against Violence in the Family, as your Marshal mentioned, for the years 2015, 2016, 2017, contained in the corresponding prints. The report on the implementation of the national programme shall be an annual fulfilment of the obligation laid down in Article. 11 the 2005 Anti-Family Violence Act. This report, which I will present to you very briefly, has over 180 pages and there is information from both individual local governments, voivodships and from individual ministries, from which I think we can draw a lot of interesting information about the functioning of the law. I will try to briefly present the most important areas that are indicated in the Act. As far as the rest is concerned, of course, it is more statistically possible to read all other information in this report. The document submitted to you contains a description of the actions carried out in accordance with the provisions of the programme in four main areas - first area: prevention and social education, second area: protection and assistance for people affected by violence in the family, third area: impact on those involved in violence in the family, fourth area: improving the competences of services and representatives of those involved in anti-violence activities in the family. As far as the first area of prevention is concerned, it is also divided into sub-groups: diagnosis of violence, social campaigns or preventive actions carried out by local authorities under the cover programme. The first important task we carry out is to systematically diagnose the phenomenon of violence in the family in Poland. As part of this task, a study was carried out in 2015 called family violence against the elderly and the disabled. This nationwide report concerned comparative studies from 2009 and 2015. In 2017, on the other hand, a study was carried out on behalf of our ministry called "General Diagnosis of the infrastructure for support for people experiencing violence" and an assessment of the effectiveness and effectiveness of the forms of aid used. The latter was composed of issues related to the development and publication of, for example, the social campaign. in 2015 a professional informator. Selected interpretations of the law on anti-violence in the family. In 2016, activities related to the implementation of the nationwide social campaign were launched. As part of the first stage, the concept and strategy of the campaign concerning the production of two television spots was developed in both the Polish and English versions. Among other things, in 2017 the campaign was implemented.I choose the aid financed by the Norwegian Financial Mechanism. Appropriations of more than 2700 000. PLN was intended for these purposes. As part of the TV campaign, TVN was purchased on-line air time in both Polish Television and Polsata. External advertising campaigns were also carried out in 16 cities on 250 advertising media. Press campaigns were also held. Another component is to support local government units in creating a system against violence in the family. To this end, the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy also supports local authorities under these programmes as part of preventive measures. Every year we spend PLN 3 million on this action. In 2015, 86 entities received funding in this respect. The number of persons affected was 1600. In 2016 - 107 entities, 1500 people, and in 2017 support was given to 86 entities, i.e. these volumes are virtually at the same level. As regards the area of protection and assistance to those affected by violence in the family, it is also divided into three components: providing shelter, ensuring the safety of children - victims of violence, the activities of interdisciplinary teams and working groups. Running specialised support centres for victims of domestic violence. This is a task carried out by the counties, financed by the state budget. During the reporting period there were 35 specialised support centres in the country. Another facility was established in 2018. This year we are also expecting another such facility to be opened. The support of specialised centres was used in 2017 by 8.5 thousand. persons. As compared to 2016, there was an increase of 22%. In 2016, 7 thousand, as in 2015. The second point is to ensure security under Article. 12a bill. So this is about the number of children that have been taken from the family in a situation of immediate danger to life or health. So here these numbers are going to be like this. Number of children received by a social worker in 2015 - 1158, in 2016 - 1214, in 2017 - 1123. So here we have seen a drop of 7.5% in 2017 compared to 2016. , and in absolute numbers - 91. According to the law, parents are entitled to a complaint before the custody court for a decision to take the child away. The court shall examine the complaint without delay, but not later than 24 hours. If it is not justified or illegal to take the child away, the court shall order the immediate transfer of the child to the parents. The Court received a total of 47 complaints in 2017. The courts dealt with 46 complaints, 29 complaints were granted. As regards the implementation of the Blue Cards procedure, these teams, both interdisciplinary teams and working groups, have been providing support to people and families affected by violence since 2011 under the Blue Cards procedure. For this reporting period in 2015 - over 99,000. Blue Cards, 2016 - over 97,000. and in 2017 - over 98,000. Blue cards, that is, this trend continues at this level. The services that most often initiate the procedure are the police and social assistance. The rarest procedure is the Blue Cards that initiate health protection. You will find the details in the report. Everything is also broken down into different voivodships. Another issue is the issue of specialist counseling. Providing support to those affected by violence in the family is done not only through the Blue Card procedure, but also through specialised forms of medical, legal, social, psychological or professional and family counseling. In the reporting years, over 150 000 were covered by various forms of support in this respect. persons each year. Most people have benefited from social and psychological support. In these years, almost 0.5 million people were involved in various forms of specialist guidance. As regards the issues of the nationwide helpline for those seeking support, there were further actions that we have taken, which aim to increase the safety of people experiencing violence. The hotline was launched on 1 January 2017. The hotline is operated by the Polish National Emergency Service for Victims of Violence in the Family. The Blue Line is commissioned by the National Agency for the Solution of Alcohol Problems. The establishment of a hotline is the implementation of one of the actions set out in the national programme for the period 2014 to 2020 and financed by the State budget. This phone works 24 hours a day, is available 7 days a week. In selected hours, consultations are also conducted in English and Russian. On selected days there is also a telephone legal counsellor. Calls are free of charge for callers. Another component or impact on those who use violence in the family. In addition to the measures aimed at protecting family violence in the context of the national programme, actions are also being carried out for the perpetrators of violence so that after the crisis the family can start to function properly. Conducting the remedial and educational influences of the perpetrators of violence is a task carried out by the counties and financed by the state budget. Over the reporting period, these programmes were used in 2015 by more than 9 000. This was the case in 2016 and 2017. As regards the implementation of psychological and therapeutic programmes as new tasks resulting from the national programme, additional funding from the State budget has been allocated since 2017 in accordance with the programme. In 2017, 177 programmes were launched with a total of 1312 members. The component is also very important: improving the competences of the services and representatives of those involved in anti-violence activities in the family. In this first composition there is training for people so-called. First contact. From these funds, which are carried out, trainings are carried out by marshals of voivodships financed by the state budget. In 2015, more than 3000 people benefited from this, in 2017. - over 2,700 people. There were also national conferences in this area, both in 2015 and in 2016. And here we also had support from the Norwegian funds. In 2017, we held a national conference on the subject. "Institutionally for the prevention of violence'. More than 100 representatives of services carrying out tasks in the field of this law took part in the conference. Financing of the National Anti-violence Programme in the Family: in 2015 - over PLN 16 million, in 2017. - more than 18 336 thousand, which means there has been an increase in expenditure. In addition, the Ministry carried out a cover programme entitled: Supporting local government units in the creation of a system against family violence. In this respect, these funds were also at the level of less than PLN 3 million. In addition, various funds were spent on national conferences, diagnoses, as part of the Ministry's budget and from the Fund for Bilateral Cooperation under the Norwegian Financial Mechanism. It was PLN 1.5 million in 2016, among others. It's about training interdisciplinary teams, preparing a social campaign.I choose to help or in 2015 about a project called "Polish family free of violence." These are the main tasks we have carried out, which are set out in the report. The reports also present conclusions. Briefly on those proposals that are included there. One. The development and implementation of a municipal and district programme against family violence and the protection of victims of violence is an important task, as they form the basis for the diagnosis of violence in a family in a given area and provide the basis for the analysis and development of concrete solutions for improving the situation of families at risk and suffering from violence in the family. So here, first of all, it is a task of mobilising local authorities to carry out broad-based prevention measures for people and families at risk of violence. The second point is to improve the competences of the services, to further develop interdisciplinary training. Here, the key element is the creation of an effective system to prevent violence in the family, which is professional and with the appropriate competence of the services and institutions. An important element of the programme is the training for workers conducted by marshals. First contact. I am also thinking about support and guidance related to the tasks performed, e.g. in the form of a supervision, to increase support infrastructure for violent people. There are currently 36 specialised support centres for victims of domestic violence in the country. In 2019, as I said, it is expected to open another specialist support centre. It is also about increasing the involvement of education and health representatives in the implementation of the Blue Card procedure, enabling more and more people who are using violence in the family to participate in psychological and therapeutic programmes. And these are also the actions that we propose when it comes to proposals. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I ask the High House to accept the reports for both 2015 and 2016 and 2017 on the implementation of the National Programme against Violence in the Family. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u237	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to ask Mrs Urszula Rusecka to present the positions of the committees in prints 1154 and 2081.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u238	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the report on the implementation of the National Programme against Violence in the Family for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2015, print No 937. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Maybe I'll start with a report in print 1154, and then another print report in print 2081. This report was received by the Sejm on 12 October 2016 and on 19 October the Marshal of the Sejm addressed it to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. On 14 December 2016, the committee at its meeting took note of the document in question, which was prepared on the basis of Article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 law on the prevention of violence in the family and was coordinated by the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy on the basis of reports by voivodships, Marshals of voivodships, as well as reports by the Ministry of Justice, Public Prosecutor's Office, Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, Ministry of Health, Ministry of National Education, Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, Police Headquarters and National Council of Radiophony and Television, which are co-realisers of the programme. The document developed shall include a description of the programme-compliant activities and their evaluation based on the recommendations and conclusions drawn up. The actions concerned four areas: prevention and social education, protection and assistance of those affected by family violence, impact on those who are violent in the family, and enhancement of the competences of the services and representatives of those involved in family violence. The first area developed municipal, district and voivodship anti-violence programmes. In 2015, 2303 programmes were developed, of which 289 district and 16 voivodship programmes. The second area is the protection and assistance of people affected by violence. Selected actions include: the establishment and functioning of interdisciplinary teams and working groups. In 2015, there were 2585 communes of interdisciplinary teams, which supported 67 thousand. families. 74,000 were created. working groups. 51 consultative points were established in 2015, as well as one support centre for people affected by violence and seven crisis intervention centres, including one intervention point. It should be noted that in 2015 49 specialised support facilities were in place for people affected by violence and 6 000 benefited from their services. persons. Another area includes the impact on violent people. It concerns the application of the Blue Card procedure. In 2015, more than 99 000 were implemented by representatives of individual actors. Blue cards. It should be made clear that almost 18,000 are involved. of them, it wasn't the right thing to do. The 2015 Budget Act plans 16 million PLN for the implementation of tasks arising from the Anti-Family Violence Act and additionally 3 million PLN for the support of local government units. Following discussions on the report, the members of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy appreciated the work done so far under the National Programme against Violence in the Family, while stressing the need for changes aimed at providing adequate, effective and faster assistance to violent people, as well as taking action towards violent people. It has been recognised that the law requires thorough review so that procedures do not stigmatise families that need to be protected in crisis situations and which need to be helped effectively. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy has adopted this report without opposition and recommends that the High Sejm adopt this report on the implementation of the National Programme against Violence in the Family for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2015. On the other hand, as regards the position of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy in relation to the report on the implementation of the national programme in force for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2016, in print No 1915, it is in print No 2081. Document 10 October 2017 entered the Sejm and on 12 October 2017 the Marshal sent this document to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. On 7 December 2017, the committee at its meeting took note of this report, which was prepared by the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy in cooperation with ministries carrying out anti-violence tasks. Actions in 2016 are repeatable and are based on four pillars, areas. These are already mentioned: prevention and social education, the protection and assistance of people affected by violence, the impact on violent people and the extension of the competences of services, representatives of actors engaged in anti-violence activities. In 2016, the overall budget for the anti-violence programme was 21 350 000. zł. In 2016, prevention and work on the family was strengthened so that violence was as rare as possible. In the course of the discussion on the report, proposals were made to simplify the Blue Card procedure. It has been recognised that a major challenge is the effective impact on violent people to approach corrective and educational or preventive and therapeutic impacts not only through coercion. It is important to constantly improve the competence of the services so that the assistance is provided professionally. The Commission unanimously adopted the report on the implementation of the National Programme against Violence in the Family for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2016 and recommends that the High House adopt it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u239	Thank you very much, Member. And I would very much like to ask Mrs Teresa Wargock to speak in order to present the position of the committee in print 3010.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u240	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the report of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the implementation of the National Programme against Violence in the Family for the period 2014 to 2020 for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2017. After consulting the Sejm Bureau, the Marshal of the Sejm sent the above report presented by the President of the Council of Ministers to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for consideration on 23 October 2018. The meeting of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy took place on 20 November 2018. The members of the committee took note of the report presented and discussed its content. The Council of Ministers shall report annually to the Sejm of the Republic of Poland by 30 September, which follows from the article. 11 the Law of 29 July 2005 on the Prevention of Family Violence. The report on the implementation of the national programme is a description of the actions carried out in accordance with this provision. The programme is very broad and exhaustive, its tasks are ranked in four main areas. A number of actions have been introduced in the area of prevention and social education, including: a nationwide diagnosis of violence in the family was made. In 2017, a study was carried out on behalf of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy: nationwide diagnosis of support infrastructure for people experiencing violence and assessment of the effectiveness and effectiveness of the forms of assistance used. Other measures in the area of prevention and education include the implementation of a social campaign to combat violence in the family.I choose assistance, as well as the implementation of a cover programme. The cover programme provided support for 2785 000 in 2017. 86 local governments. In the area of protection and assistance to those affected by violence in the family, a number of important measures have been taken to support the victims, including: the establishment of specialised support centres for victims of domestic violence. This task is carried out by the counties and financed by the State budget. There are currently 35 such facilities across the country, and by the end of 2018 another such facility will be established in the city of Kraków. We also provide resources, the government provides funding and provides for another establishment in 2019. With this comprehensive support of specialist centres in 2017, a very broad support of legal, psychological, medical guidance, participation in support groups was benefited by 8558 people. And here in this respect is a significant increase compared to 2016, by 22%. It should also be added that in 2017, in a small percentage, but we notice an increase in the preparation of the Blue Card, i.e. the initiation of a procedure which is intended to help people who experience violence. Another area, of course very important, is the programs that affect the perpetrators of violence. And here we have programs to correct and educate the perpetrators of violence. These programmes were joined in 2017 by 9101 people and another form of violence aid, such in-depth psychological, therapeutic assistance, was developed in 2017, and 177 programmes were launched to which 1312 people joined. The last important area of the anti-violence programme in the family is to improve the competences of the services and representatives of those involved in anti-violence activities in the family. Thus, in 2017 2742 people were trained first contact. The total amount of 17,774 000 was spent on the entire National Programme against Violence in the Family in 2017. zł. During the discussion, Members of the Committee discussed the following issues. There were proposals concerning as if extortion in municipal and district governments, so that all local governments would develop, develop their municipal, local government programs against violence in the family. Here, this percentage per year is higher, but we still do not reach this rate of 100%. The issue of the frequency of eviction of the perpetrators of violence from their place of residence, as well as suspended sentences, was raised by the courts. There was also a demand for remuneration of people working in interdisciplinary teams. The printing report No 2941 was adopted by the committee by 13 votes to none, with seven abstentions. There were no votes against. In view of the above, I would ask the High Sejm to accept the printing report No 2941. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The presidency includes Deputy Marshal of the Seym Beata Mazurek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u241	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that it would hear 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and 5 minutes' statements on behalf of the circles in the joint discussion on these items on the agenda. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Teresa Wargock, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u242	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the reports on the implementation of the National Programme against Violence in the Family for the years 2014 and 2020 contained in the Seym Papers No. 937, 1915, 2941. These reports describe the actions carried out in accordance with the government programme in four main areas: prevention and social education, protection and assistance for people affected by family violence, impact on violence and, last, fourth areas, improving the competences of services and representatives engaged in anti-violence activities in the family. The National Programme against Violence in the Family is being implemented by many institutions in government and local government administration, has a long-term perspective and the long-term measures contained in it aim to reduce domestic violence. It is worth recalling here the results of studies carried out by the Fundamental Rights Agency in 2017 on the extent of violence against women in the countries of the European Union. And so we learn from these studies that the highest rate of physical and mental violence that women face is in countries like Denmark - 52%. , Finland 47%, Sweden 46% , Netherlands - 45% , France and the United Kingdom - 44%. In Poland, the rate is 19%. and is the lowest in the European Union, with an average of 33%. The lack of consent to violence and the willingness to seek help confirms that the percentage of women reporting that violence against them is the highest in Poland against all countries of the European Union. This can also show that the programme meets the educational objectives. This fact is confirmed by the studies carried out in 2017 on behalf of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy under the name "General Diagnosis of the infrastructure for support for people experiencing violence and assessment of the effectiveness and effectiveness of the forms of aid used. The study pointed out that not only the availability of information on the possibilities of support for those receiving assistance, but also the availability of various forms of assistance can be assessed as good or very good. This opinion was expressed by 80% in these studies. Subjects. The reports show that in all years - of course, the tasks are the same every year, and therefore also the forms of implementation adopted and the possibility of evaluating this programme are quite transparent and clear - in this area designated as the first area, probably the most important, because in terms of violence, this prevention is really just as important as helping victims of violence, a number of actions have been taken, such as social, television, Internet, door-to-door campaigns, and a cover programme is being implemented. From the government programme each year of these three years amount approx. PLN 3 million was intended to support local governments in the creation of a system against violence in the family. The second area of the programme is to help people affected by family violence and protect them. Over recent years, a network of support and assistance providers is being developed. These are consultative points, support centres, specialised support centres, homes for mothers with young children, crisis intervention centres. These facilities are mainly run by municipal and district authorities. Over the years, we can see an increase in the number of institutions, in particular consultative centres and support centres. In the construction of this aid infrastructure, but also in providing real assistance to victims, the activities of the Ministry of Justice must be seen. At the turn of 2016 and 2017, two competition proceedings were launched to identify the entities providing assistance to victims of crime. For this purpose, in 2016 and 2017 the Ministry of Justice allocated PLN 17 million. I would like to stress that this is, you can say, the equivalent of the appropriations in the budget for the implementation of the national programme. The Ministry of Justice has also made legislative changes to improve efficiency in the functioning and spending of the Justice Fund. These amendments allowed the publication in September 2017 of two programmes covering the implementation of the tasks financed by the Justice Fund. Financial resources, which will also be directed to victims of domestic violence, because these are victims of crime, i.e. a significant amount - PLN 160 million. In addition to consulting, legal, psychological, medical assistance within these programmes, it is also possible to support in such a daily life, in an attempt to settle family matters in a manner independent of the perpetrator of violence. We are looking for a very strong support in this programme for the purpose of helping victims of violence, but also for prevention. Another area is the impact on those who use violence. Here we are dealing with the blue card procedure. Since 2014, there have actually been some fluctuations in the number of procedures initiated, but these are fluctuations within the percentage limit, they are not relevant. On the other hand, it is increasingly stressed in the evaluation of the programme that interdisciplinary teams in principle do not have the tools to directly influence perpetrators who do not take part in meetings of these teams and do not cooperate. However, research, or rather the protocol of the Supreme Audit Chamber, shows that the effectiveness in ensuring the safety of family members in whom there is violence is also achieved through the work of these teams. In this study, 60% people who have been victimized, whose interdisciplinary teams have provided support, have determined that there is an improvement in this respect. In a small percentage, it's supposed to be 2.6%. It was said that there was virtually no problem of violence. On the other hand, making the problem of such a family public in some way is already becoming a brake on the perpetrators of violence. The point is, they may have serious consequences. Another form that is very needed. It's about looking at the perpetrator of violence as a man who also has a problem. He's got a problem with himself, he can't control his emotions, he's got some sort of, you know, personality disorder. And these programs are becoming more and more successful. Psychotherapeutic programmes are extremely important in this area. The average annual use of correction and education programmes over these years was 9 persons. A very important area is to boil competent staff for work. It's a permanent task, too. Over the course of each year, these trainings covered 2.5 and 3 000. persons. They are also members of interdisciplinary teams, social workers. Traditionally, there is a national conference every year, which aims to gather representatives of all services dealing with the prevention of domestic violence and exchange of information in order to better coordinate. Ladies and gentlemen! The programme is implemented in a very systemic manner. It is very important that preventive action, protective action, is continuous work. This program is such a program. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Supreme Audit Chamber has put forward a number of proposals. It would be good to analyse and introduce them into this programme. Time does not allow these requests to be discussed. Law and Justice will vote in favour of the reports for 2015, 2016 and 2017. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u243	Thank you. Ms Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, PO-KO, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u244	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present my position on the National Anti-violence Programme in the Family, which was adopted by the Government of the Civic Platform and PSL on 29 April 2014. It has a long-term perspective, as the measures it contains aim to reduce family violence. Achieving this objective is a process that takes time, involves all services, environments, financial resources, and changes in public awareness. In general, that would be correct. This report describes the actions implemented in accordance with the programme's provisions in the four main areas already mentioned: prevention and social education, the protection and assistance of people affected by violence, the impact on people who use violence in the family, the enhancement of the competences of services and representatives of those involved in anti-violence activities in the family. My colleague Joanna Augustynowska will talk more about these areas. On the other hand, I would like to talk about what has been left out in these reports. On 1 January 2017, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 National Emergency Service for Victims of Violence in the Family suspended telephone and e-mail counseling for victims of crime due to lack of funds. Number 22 66870 00 has been silent since 2007. He was silent, and about 6,000 were used by him. persons. The main benefits were those outside Warsaw, the elderly, who could not directly reach the centre of assistance for victims of crime. Why? That's because the money from the crime victims' fund and their families refused the Ministry of Justice. The same fund financed the Women's Rights Centre, which has been operating for 25 years. It didn't get any funding either. His offer in 2016 was rejected twice, because according to the Ministry, attention narrows the aid only to a specific group of victims. Meanwhile, about 1/3 of women in Poland experience various forms of violence in their lives. Ladies and gentlemen! The statistics leave no doubt. Violence against women, including violence in the family, is widespread in Poland. According to police statistics, 93% of the perpetrators are male. Nearly 90% of the victims are women and children. That is why it was so important to adopt an anti-violence convention. In February 2015, the Polish Sejm passed the ratification act, which was signed by President Bronisław Komorowski in April. We went in the right direction to fight violence in the family together with the European institutions. Unfortunately, another president, President Andrzej Duda, about the anti-violence convention said: first of all, not to apply, Polish law is very good. Yes, we adopted a good law in 2005 or 2010, but that's still not enough. The worst part is that we know from the media reports that Law and Justice are trying to retreat from the anti-violence convention. I would like to ask, because this report does not mention whether and at what stage were the work at the Ministry of Justice, as well as at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy on the issue of the termination of this convention. On the other hand, we know that in the latter ministry, i.e. the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, work was ongoing on a very scandalous project which, first of all, said that one-off violence was not violence, that the procedure of the Blue Card, yes, but only when the victim agreed to do so. After all, if we did this, we would never have introduced, for example. Public rape prosecutions. Meanwhile, in 2014 we introduced such a procedure that rape is prosecuted by the public. And that's what the anti-violence convention imposed on us, that's what the convention is for. It was just one of the requirements of the convention. Thus, the project that I mentioned here, the one who saw the light of day at the end of last year, also wanted to eliminate all local anti-violence programmes, programmes that we ordered the local authorities to implement in their strategies. It turned out that for some representatives of the government, including the Prime Minister Beata Szydło himself, this is a situation that should be commended, because of the local government of Zakopane, who did not want to announce such a program, and even did not approve it, she said: because you are brave. This way of thinking, yes, maybe the phenomenon of violence against women above all will be eliminated, but only in statistics and on paper, because it will really be more and more, because these actions, which have occurred in recent months or even years under the rule of Law and Justice, show that it is at all about changing the consciousness of thinking that what is happening at home, it is at home, because according to the old stereotype and myth of dirt is washing in its own home. And that's very disturbing. That is why we will certainly not be able to vote in favour of the actions that have taken place in recent years. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u245	Thank you. The remaining time will be used for her speech by Mrs Joanna Augustynowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u246	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In ordering, I would say that I do not understand the procedure and debate in the plenary room on the joint three reports. One period concerned the Government of the Civic Platform and PSL, and 2016 and 2017 is already an outrageous behaviour and approach to the violence by the Government of Law and Justice, while we will have to vote together, so I wonder why you are doing this and why you are really trying to marginalize a very important problem. What is the prevention and social education of the government? In fact, the figures indicated in these reports show this. Among other things, the Ministry of Labour boasts that it has spent 3 million in the last year's campaign, only that it adds just after the decimal point that 85% the funds are funds obtained and secured by the Government of the Civic Platform and PSL from Norwegian funds. You from the government didn't get any extra money, you didn't contribute to that education. Next: Ministry of National Education in 2015, i.e. the Government of the Civic Platform, allocated 1.5 million PLN to educational funds in schools. In 2017, the Council The Ministry of National Education issued three regulations and made a programme change. The government's proxy for equal treatment in 2017 did not campaign against violence in the family. So the question is, why this attorney, why this vacancy? That's your staff, that's your responsibility, and you're trying to change the popular and very responsible definition of family violence. Only local governments and NGOs are responsible for the campaigns that take place in Poland, but NGOs, which are now very carefully chosen. Turns out the Women's Rights Center isn't getting funding from the Ministry of Justice because she's too busy dealing with women's affairs. On the other hand, you refer to your experts as well as Mr. Kwasniak of Ordo Iuris or Mrs. Marzena Kąkała of the Elbanowski Foundation. If you choose to choose among experts, of course, without all standards, regulations and records of competence, people who are ideologically close to you, then it's no wonder that you're not actually doing anything about the subject, because you're not making any regulations that would improve anything, or even reading those reports that your government is preparing, because these reports are just to make concrete changes, and you're really doing Ctrl C, Ctrl V, you're copying, you're changing digital data. What does that mean? Nothing. The facts are that violence in the family is increasing, the level of violence at school is scandalously high. [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] The number of suicides among children and young people is increasing from year to year, and over the last year it has doubled by 100%. What is the cause of this? Chaos, bad organization and lack of adequate resources, tools that we would give the kids so they wouldn't have to commit suicide. This is the result of mismanagement and understatement. But the worst part of all of this seems to me to be some government approval and some acceptance of behavior, because if you're hearing... I would like to quote exactly what Minister Rafalska said in an interview with Mr Rafalska, who, after disclosure of the case concerning the violence of one of the PiS councillors, said that changes were needed which would, on the one hand, increase the safety of those who have been subjected to violence, but on the other hand, allow them to remain subjective. Who are you protecting? A criminal? A torturer? I understand he's a party buddy, but you can't go in that direction. If we're going to make real changes, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's not like that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u247	I would like to ask the floor of Barbara Chrobak, the Kukiz Club15. There is no Member. In that case, Mrs Monica Rosa, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u248	Mrs. Marshalkini! Minister! High Izbo! Fear in your own home for yourself, for a child, for a parent, to think about whether it will be the good day or sometimes the worse day, to close your eyes and hide from the world, to ask for help or to be afraid to ask for help - imagine it. Preventing and combating violence in the family is one of the most important tasks facing a government majority and government institutions. Family violence is a violation of fundamental human rights and freedoms. It's this particular kind of violence, dramatic, when the victim and the perpetrator often live under the same roof. Violence in the family is most often affected by weak people and those who are harder to defend: women, children, older people, also people with disabilities. In 2017, the Council The police reported 165,000. cases of domestic violence in which nearly 93 000 have been injured. persons. 73% Victims are women, more than 14% - children. On 12 December 2017, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki stressed the need for a policy of firm opposition to any manifestations of domestic violence and the urgent need for profound changes to support those who experience domestic violence. However, the amendment, which was proposed at the end of 2018, actually took us back years to combat and prevent family violence. State policy against domestic violence must be coherent and effective, it must be systematic. As far as reports are concerned, their main disadvantage is that they are largely not on the subject. The details and tables want to hide the lack of real, systemic activities. Will we learn from the reports what is the real scale of family violence? How many helpers do we help? What part of the problem do we solve? Is the aid available to everyone evenly, in the same way in every part of the country? What forms of aid are available and what forms of aid are missing? Many pages deal with reports on Resorts, which are not information dedicated to combating violence in the family, but are general information about the operation of these Resorts, which we will also find in reports from other programmes on alcoholism, drug addiction and mental health. The tables at the end, including the division into voivodships, which are supposed to give a statistical picture, do not really give any picture. Finally, recommendations for further action are random, they are not systemic, they do not show how we should act in order to reduce the scale of violence. The report should also have a critical report prepared by the Monitoring Team on Anti-violence in the Family at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. That's not the report. That was not the opinion the monitoring team issued. It is pleased that almost most of the municipalities in Poland have implemented their anti-violence programmes. It is difficult to determine their effectiveness because there is no system to test their real activities. There is also not enough budget to implement these programmes. There is one municipality, Zakopane, beloved by Prime Minister Beata Szydło, who praised the council for not adopting such a program. The minister, who is to deal with those most in need of help, praised the municipality, which did not introduce a resolution against domestic violence. And this is, ladies and gentlemen, a scandal. Violence has sex. Its victims are mostly women. This is due to the stereotypes that have been established over the years, the unequal distribution of power between men and women. And the fight against violence in the family must be a cross-party and long-term issue. Violence affects regardless of the place of residence, education, views or sympathy or political antipathy. We will not build a true democracy and an open state until half of society is threatened by violence until violence is effectively prosecuted and punished until this subject is taken seriously until we change the stereotypical thinking about the role of men and women. It is necessary to correctly define the phenomenon of violence in the family. According to Art. 3 lit. b of the Istanbul Convention, domestic violence means any physical, sexual, psychological or economic violence occurring in the family or household, or between former or present spouses or partners, whether the perpetrator or victim shares the place of residence or not. The anti-violence law in the family needs to be revised. It was to be revised in 2015, but it didn't happen, and it probably won't happen this year either. She needs to be updated after 10 years of action. It must be updated in cooperation with all actors who work with victims, perpetrators, lawmakers and practitioners, but also with non-governmental organisations that have been effectively helping victims of domestic violence for years with low budgets. The second thing, very important, is a credible study of the phenomenon of violence. We do not know the real data about violence that occurs in Poland, we do not know its scale. We don't even know how many women a year die of domestic violence every month. No one's running statistics like this. We can expect these women to be around 400 and 500 a year, but there might as well be a lot more women. Third point: real cooperation and funding of non-governmental organisations helping victims of violence. It cannot be that the Women's Rights Centre, the Blue Line or other organizations deal with financial problems in a month. It's these organizations that are closest to people, they help them. Point four: implementation of the anti-violence convention to change the definition of rape, to introduce provisions on economic violence, to introduce provisions to better isolate the perpetrator of violence from the victim. The draft law on economic violence lies in the Sejm for almost a year, was not even read at the committee's deliberations or at the Sejm meeting. The other two projects are prepared. It cannot be that a person who experiences violence has to flee from his own home sometimes to a place many miles away. We need to take the victim's side, not the victim's side. Fifth point: mandatory for perpetrators of domestic violence to participate in correction and education programmes. According to the Ministry's research, as many as 67% of the perpetrators who participated in such therapies declared that during their duration they had not used violence for more than one year, 34% participants in these programmes have completely ceased their application. These are beautiful numbers, these are people who have struggled with their problems, but this therapy cannot be optional. Sixth point: training for workers of the actors identified in the Act on the Prevention of Domestic Violence, Social Welfare, Police, Teachers, Continuing Training, Assistance and Support, so that they understand the problem of domestic violence, help not only victims but also perpetrators. Point seven: regular social campaigns that involve the prevention of violence, but which also say that men and women are equal, that we need to move away from stereotypical thinking about the division of roles or the division of power between men and women, that violence just comes from the fact that we think that someone is worse, that someone is different. Point eight: a change in the functioning of the Justice Fund, so that money from it can actually come to the aid of victims and support for those leaving prison. 25 million PLN from the fund went to CBA, 100 million PLN went to voluntary firefighters, 800,000 PLN. Tadeusz Rydzyk's foundation. The fund is intended to serve victims of violence, this is money that we can really use to help them. Point nine: decent sexual and anti-discrimination education in schools. This is something that from childhood will teach that a man and woman are equal, that no violence is allowed at home, but will also teach where to look for help. On 28 January 2019, the Ombudsman, Adam Bodnar, sent a comprehensive study containing recommendations to combat family violence to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. It is a large, comprehensive document, recommendations developed with NGOs. This document is waiting for you to read it to try to implement it. This is what NGOs are waiting for, and so are we. We want to support this legislative process, work on solutions for, among others. anti-violence. We're waiting for this because there's not gonna be a free society when some of us are afraid to go home. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u249	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Margaret Zwierzan, Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u250	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Circle of the Polish Free and Solidarnia, I present my views on the reports submitted by the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the National Programme against Violence in the Family for the years 2014 and 2020 in 2015, 2016 and 2017. Although in recent years there has been a revolution in the perception of violence in the family, it is still one of the most difficult topics. You have to do everything you can to counteract this negative phenomenon, because it imprints on the life of the whole family, especially on minors. Everything must be done to ensure that families affected by violence receive the best and best possible aid. I have no doubt that every effort must be made to ensure that the systems implemented and functioning in this area fulfil their roles and protect the weakest. Unfortunately, the reports presented make it clear that there is still much to be done on this issue, there is a need for regulations that will effectively protect victims of violence. I am pleased that the Government of the United Right sees this need and is trying to work out the most appropriate solutions. It should also be noted what has been done over these 3 years. The activities undertaken in this area are increasingly interdisciplinary, involving many resorts on an equal level, thus increasing their efficiency. There are numerous social campaigns that raise awareness and raise public awareness of the problem of violence, numerous trainings to improve the skills of first-time workers working with people who are violent and violent in the family, or a growing number of consultative points for those who are affected by violence in the family and support centres each year. As the discussions of the Committee on Social Policy and Family have shown, we have no tolerance for family violence, which is perhaps one of the few issues on which we all agree. I am surprised at the attitude of some local authorities who have not made a diagnosis of violence in their territory, have not developed local programs. I trust that this attitude will soon change, and the possibility that, among other things, will change. Gives government funding through the program.For the life of building a home of single mothers, it will be used to a greater extent, which will increase the possibility of helping those in need. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of the reports. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u251	Thank you. I ask the floor of Mrs Joanna Schmidt, now!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u252	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I've read up on the reports you've presented over the last three years. I treat them as reports that present certain statistics, tables, charts. I do not see in this strategy a long-term action that will really reduce the level of crime in the form of violence in the family. Today's Poland, Poland under PiS is not a good country for women. This is not a country where we have the right to feel safe, we have the right to pursue our passions. This is a country in which there is no approval for women's careers. This is not a country where we can decide our own lives. Today's Poland, which you have invented and are trying to impose on us, is a traditional and conservative wall in which the patriarchal model of the family is the most lenient dimension of punishment that women can face. I'll just remind you of your omissions. We remember your plans to tighten up abortion law, we remember the end of the in vitro refund programs, we remember what the PiS politicians said about the anti-violence convention. You even wanted to get out of it. How else is it to be if your intellectual or ideal outbuilding is Ordo Iuris, who is the organization that is the solution to violence against women, and here I quote: inculcating respect for the natural roles of women in society? How can it be otherwise if the Ministry of Justice is involved financially in social campaigns such as "Strong Marriages" - Lower Crime? I'd understand if this was the kind of campaign the church organized. It is enough that women in the church hear that they must carry the cross throughout their lives and at all costs maintain a marriage in which there is a pathology in the form of violence. You took the grants, I'll remind you, for the Women's Rights Center, because, as Zbigniew Ziobro said, it narrows it down to a specific group only. Let me remind you that this group is over 51% of our society, or women. This is the group that is most vulnerable to domestic violence. You have not introduced more severe punishments for rapists today, more aid for victims of sexual violence. You have not introduced an anti-discrimination law that would provide effective legal protection against crimes motivated by gender prejudice, disability, because, let me remind you, that is what you said during the debate - you do not see such needs. You didn't put in place a law on economic violence, even though you had a law like that ready. This project was on the table. After all, financial independence makes it possible to gain independence for life. I think you can see a direct connection with the fact that if a woman is financially independent, she has the ability to decide herself, she has the opportunity to maintain her dignity. Experts have long called on you to extend the definition of violence to economic violence. In the case of family violence, you couldn't even afford to have a preamble to the National Freedom Institute Act... I will remind you of this debate about NGOs. We also called for the preamble to support organisations that work for victims of domestic violence. In the preamble there was a place for words about supporting organizations carrying out national-patriotic projects. Your anti-violence programme practically ignores the most important role of NGOs. At present, the knowledge and experience of NGOs in this area is being exploited to a small extent. Ladies and gentlemen! Violence against women, domestic violence against children is increasing in Poland. For the actions you write about, you spent just over PLN 18 million. What is this money in relation to the needs of Polish families, to omissions in this regard? With one hand, you give donations to the voivods, the other hand - you take funds from non-governmental organizations. The program has virtually no information on how to deal with modern forms of violence against women, girls, children on the Internet. Read the reports on this. I recommend it. At the same time, there is a discussion about the role of curators in education. Look at the attitudes your parole officers represent. They write letters to the directors to explain the organisation of actions aimed at combating intolerance, preventing violence on the Internet. The words "tolerance," "estestimation," are foreign to you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u253	Please take the floor of Mr Janusz Sanocki, a non-member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u254	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a great difficulty with some seriousness, but I will start seriously because, I think, many of the ladies who speak here and from Modern, and from this point of view, it would seem liberal, which, according to the traditional understanding of liberalism, is going to restrict the role of the state, urges us that you, with your omnipotence, embrace every corner of human life to interfere with the family. As I hear it, we have to do everything we can to eliminate violence or describe it or classify it, I ask what it means. We have to put a policeman in every family, mount a camera to describe it? [[The voice from the hall: Janusz, enough to teach people.]] Ladies, there's a story. When John Hus was burned at the stake, an old lady brought a bunch of shreds and threw them into the pile. Hus was then going to say historic: "O, sancta simplicitas!" means "O, the feast of naivety!" I attribute to your naivety, because violence in the family... Who accepts violence, curses, drunkenness? No normal person will accept this, but at the same time these are phenomena that cannot be eradicated in society, especially through state interference, demanding an extension of this scope, demanding the adoption of the Convention. This is the new ideology of the left. The left once, in the 19th century, liberated the working class so that it liberated her from everything that along with the handcuffs her shoes fell off those poor workers' feet, and today you want to liberate women to... I understand: women. What about men? What about violence in one-sex partnerships? What does it look like there? I would like the ladies who support these relationships to answer us here, to think about it. This time I'm kidding... [[Voice from the room: It's a bad joke.]] ...but, ladies and gentlemen, it's not funny, because speaking this series unfortunately, I'm sorry, but complete ideological nonsense, Mr. Messengers demand... Think about it. The state cannot interfere too deeply in our lives. This is about reprehensible phenomena, and no one can deny it, but state interference... We can't demand further interference. Economic violence... My God, what about culinary violence? Mrs. Modern says that a woman wears a cross in a church. I don't know what church. You're just walking around, ma'am. Indeed, I come to church on a regular basis and do not hear about such phenomena, and Christianity has developed through women. Just as Christianity values women, no religion does, and you are attacking this idea, this group of beliefs, which values women and puts them very high. Therefore, I regret that the government has withdrawn from the amendment of the bill, but he did so because his colleagues from the PiS unfortunately go ahead with the mines without preparation. This is an important discussion. We should really be able to talk to experts at a serious level and think about the effects we will have, how we will want to regulate everything and eliminate the entire injustice of this world. I believe that this is a new ideology, and I appeal to ladies who very often here speak competently on various subjects, really. Here you wander, fall for this naive slogan, and evil never comes into our lives under its banner. No, always under the pretense of good, under the pretence of some noble purpose, but the consequences are fatal. If we didn't, God forbid, follow this path, expand this state interference, we'd really be hurting women. I don't want to be so personal around here that I don't have to tell you what I'm trying to say. Indeed, I urge everyone to reflect, including those who want to contribute so deeply to the government with this chopstick, a chopstick of violence in the family. I think there should be a serious debate... [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] ...but the slogan of ending violence in the family is the slogan of ending the family simply. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u255	Thank you. Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of you like to join the list of people asking questions? I can't see. I'm closing the list. Mr Szczerba, PO-KO, asks the first question. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u256	High Izbo! Minister! I've been thinking all this time about how the family ministry may have made such an immoral proposal. It's about acknowledging that one-off beating is not violence. [[That's not the subject.]] Domestic violence is more and more likely to result in more than just mothers and children. The victims of domestic violence are increasingly elderly, isolated from the family, friends who live with the person hurting under the same roof. Older people are physically hurt, they suffer psychological violence, they are deprived of the right to decide for themselves. Economic violence is very common. The type of violence is neglect, that is, lack of care, insufficient food. Elderly people rarely seek help. What actions did the government take after my January information that there are 128 illegal private nursing homes in Poland? [[♪ The bell ♪]] There could be violence there. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u257	I would like to ask Mrs Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u258	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! Very often, in cases of domestic violence, women are alerted to threats, but the police are not taking any action. In the current situation, the State does not have the right tools to ensure the safety of victims of domestic violence, although this is a huge problem, known every day to the police and to all institutions that are in contact with victims of domestic violence. This very often ends in death - the actual death of women, the actual death of children - so saying that this is some unnecessary intervention, ladies and gentlemen, is a big mistake. We need to protect those who are in the most difficult situation. We have a duty to defend our citizens in such a difficult situation. Does the government provide for any steps to be taken to regulate the procedures for dealing with the risks of life deprivation and beating? The aim is to ensure that these procedures ensure the safety of the victims, especially since the organisations involved [[♪ The bell ♪]] The problem of violence, such as the Women's Rights Center, has lost funding.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u259	Thank you. I would like to ask Mrs Monica Rosa, the Modern Club, to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u260	Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! The fact that Mr Sanocki told me what he had said does not surprise me at all, but the fact that Mrs Sanocki nodded to him, smiled, and that Mr clapping was absolutely shocking to me, because violence in the family is real because it is real violence. She touches a woman, touches children. We don't really know its scale, because it often stays in the gray area. Women are afraid to report violence when violence affects them repeatedly. Often a woman raped is afraid to do so because her husband raped her and is afraid to go back to him. These are the challenges to be addressed by the institutions of the state by politicians. I have a question for the Minister. Does the Minister also believe that this violence in the family is an imaginary problem? Will there be any amendment to the law and will further action be taken? May they not go in the same direction as your amendment, which appeared at the beginning of the year from which you fortunately withdrew. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u261	I would like to ask Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, the PO-KO question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u262	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! When it comes to violence, there is really no age in the family. It affects both children and the elderly, as Mr Szczerba said here. It is not loud enough that violence also applies to people who cannot manifest harm. I just want to ask you when we're physically going to have a situation where the perpetrator of violence is isolated from the victim, Minister. That's one question. And the second question is why, in recent times, so many institutions that have just dealt with legal aid to victims have not received funding. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u263	Thank you. Please address the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Stanisław Swed. [[In front of the minister, I'd ask you that question. It's so single-handed. Minister, I'm sorry to intrude.]] No, sir. I can't. [[But one sentence. I wanted to ask you what happened to the abortion...]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u264	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for this discussion. Let me remind you that we discussed the reports on information. The material itself consists of various information provided to us from individual resorts, hence this is the content of this information, it has not changed since 2010 and of course this material is helpful in the discussion we are conducting here. One can only repeat that any violence is evil, unacceptable, absolutely not consenting to tolerate any violence and accusing us of it here in some speeches is simply absolutely inappropriate, to say the least. There's no such thing. There is a question addressed to all of us, to the High House: How can we deal with this? Are we handling this well? I think, among other things. This information is intended to serve this purpose so that we can draw the right conclusions. As regards the question that was raised in this discussion, concerning inter alia. Older people - we are currently preparing an amendment to the Social Assistance Act, which will respond to greater supervision or the possibility of greater supervision through the services of private voivodships of social assistance houses. This amendment is pending by the Council of Ministers, and I think it will also make it easier. As regards the issue which also sounded here in the club speeches - the project, which was a work project developed by the team, by the working group, appeared in the message, but it was neither intended for consultation yet nor was it a project that closed the discussion. Today this project is gone, the project has returned to the ministry, and at this moment we will again start working as part of the team that is called up by the Minister. The point is that we should come up with good solutions that are not going to divide us, but are going to unite us, because it wouldn't make much sense to prepare the solutions that they share. And we will be working on these solutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u265	Thank you. Please take the floor of the rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Teresa Wargocka.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u266	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Since the reports on the implementation of the programme have inspired your fellow Members to have a broader discussion, let me refer to your speech from the Modern Member. Ladies and gentlemen, looking at the causes of violence in the wrong school system is a far-reaching abuse. It is even a lie, because within the framework of the curriculum of general education for kindergartens and primary schools, we very clearly teach you to recognize and name basic emotions, to deal with emotions, to respect other people's emotions, that is also to learn respect for others. In the entire teaching process, in kindergarten and primary school, we place emphasis on these competences, on these skills, because this upbringing of several-year-old children will cause that in a dozen years there will be no domestic violence either. The subject: ethics has been identified as an area: man towards others, content concerning respect, understanding, love, human rights, children learn such concepts as altruism, concern, unselfishness, gratitude, personal integrity, tolerance, common good, cooperation, justice, solidarity. This is real prevention, this is real anti-violence in the family, this is shaping a generation of people who accept themselves, accept others, and have a sensitivity that allows them to establish close relationships with others. And please do not insinuate such opinions, such statements that the Polish school does not teach tolerance, does not teach cooperation or cooperation. [[He doesn't teach.]] It's really illegal and it's hurting. [[And the probation officer's interventions? Curators' interventions?]] Ladies and gentlemen! If there was an intervention by the curators, it wasn't about value, it could be about how it was implemented. Besides, I haven't been to this committee meeting, I'm not going to talk about specific people and specific curators, and I don't know the subject exactly. Ladies and gentlemen! She also said: sexual education in schools. In my speech, I recalled the results of the study of the Fundamental Rights Agency. In those countries where violence against women is 50% Forty-seven percent of women claim to be experiencing domestic violence - it is sexual education in these countries. Sexual education, which very clearly separates what is, you can say, the essence of sexual life, showing spiritual love, deep love, such love that causes us to take responsibility for another person, with sexual life. And this is certainly not an education that raises a young generation to create happy relationships in the future, where respect for another person will be. Because separating sex from love is the greatest harm we can do to Polish children. Hence, at school, the subject: raising to life in a family that teaches to grow up to love. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u267	Thank you. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u268	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The government's annual report coincided unfortunately in time with a proposal that the family ministry and the Prime Minister's firm would like to forget as soon as possible. The heads have already flown, the project has been withdrawn, but unfortunately the taste remains. Today you will be proud to implement the plan as part of the program, but it is impossible to pass indifferently and leave without comment a proposal that was recently placed on the pages of the Government Legislative Center, i.e. de facto it was companyd by the government. Yeah, you know exactly what this is about. This already famous amendment of the law, unfortunately, is not violence one time. Addressed for consultation on 31 December. Maybe somebody thought no one would notice, because everyone's gonna be busy with New Year's Eve. But we noticed very quickly and very quickly it came out of the bag. In the novel we read flowers such as the fact that whenever we talk about a person experiencing domestic violence, it is necessary to mean a person whose rights or personal interests have been violated by repeated deliberate action. Currently, there is also a record of one-off action in the Act. That record from the novel is gone. Another issue is the issue of the Blue Card. The applicants assumed that the release of such a document would require the consent of the violent person - now the card is issued from the vending machine. This can cause many people to not receive such a card, afraid to agree to it. Ladies and gentlemen, I know what you're going to say right now that this project doesn't exist, that you've withdrawn from it, and so on. No! I don't buy those translations. Because he was, and if there wasn't any noise around him, you'd probably have pushed him through with your knee. And one more thing: the Minister's entire case has blossomed in words that he should not see the light of day so quickly. Yeah, 'cause maybe you didn't want this project until after the election. Today, ladies and gentlemen, on the brink of this sad event One thing must be said: your actions, the achievements you boast of can be faked. Maybe the statistics and numbers don't reflect the actual state either. Although the problem has been mentioned for many years, many victims still prefer to remain silent. So what should work? First of all, education, especially in small towns. It's very important. According to data from the Centre for Women's Rights, there is still a shortage of volunteers who could help people experiencing domestic violence. Maybe it's worth thinking about supporting in this direction. After all, something that becomes the norm, the number of people who report to help centers only when a particular case becomes loud, realizes that it is not alone with this drama that other women do too. I remember when one of the famous actresses admitted that she was beaten by her husband. Today, records of novels that have accidentally come to light, saying that once it's not violence, they can cause one thing - the understatement of statistics. Is that what this is about? Are you talking about building a Potemkin village? Tomek's freedom in his cottage? It's the Middle Ages. And he doesn't have permission to do that. Today, one of the challenges of fighting and combating domestic violence is unfortunately a change in the government's mentality. And just so we're clear, that's what I wish you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u269	In the discussion, requests were made to reject the reports in prints 937, 1915 and 2941. We will proceed to the vote on these proposals in the voting block. I'm declaring a time-out. 18. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 mins 20 hours 17 min 21]] Ladies and gentlemen! Since there is a representative of the government, I will resume the proceedings. We proceed with the examination of item 31 of the agenda: the Commission's report on the Energy and Treasury draft law amending the Law amending the Law on excise duty and certain other laws, the Law amending the Law on Liquid Biocomponents and biofuels and certain other laws, the Environmental Law, the Law on greenhouse gas emission management and other substances, and the Act on the promotion of electricity from high-efficiency cogeneration (prints Nos 3217 and 3220). I ask Mr Ireneus to make a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u270	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! On behalf of the Commission for Energy and the Treasury, I present a report on the Parliament's draft law amending the Law amending the Law on excise duty and certain other laws, the Law amending the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels and certain other laws, the Environmental Law, the Law on greenhouse gas emission management and other substances, and the Act on the promotion of electricity from high-efficiency cogeneration, print No 3217. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission for Energy and Treasury at today's meeting on 20 February 2019 carried out the first reading of the Parliament's draft law and considered this draft. Among other things, a request has been made for a public hearing which has not been recognised by the majority. No amendments have been tabled other than the regulatory, legislative amendments that have been adopted. The Commission, by a majority of 12 votes in favour, in the absence of votes against and 5 abstentions, accepted the same bill and asks the High Sejm to approve the draft submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u271	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Maciej Małecki, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u272	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the parliamentary bill we are debating. This proposal provides clarification of the legislation adopted by the High House on 28 December, which is commonly known as a mechanism blocking the rise in energy prices, which was then prepared by the Ministry of Energy and the Government. This common name is as suitable as possible, because the aim of working on this law at the end of last year was to block the increase in electricity and protect Polish families, companies, industry and local governments from the negative effects of the surge in electricity prices that we see across Europe. We have achieved this goal, which I would like to emphasise very strongly here. Energy prices, electricity prices in Poland will not increase as in many other European countries, where we record increases not only by a few dozen percent, but even more than 100%. Let me remind you that this record increase in electricity prices, which we must protect ourselves from, is linked to the European Union's climate policy. This was implemented by the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 October 2003. This Directive established trade in greenhouse gas emission allowances within the Community and imposed an obligation to purchase emission allowances by sources of combustion of fuels. As a result, the price of allowances, which in 2017, oscillated around EUR 5.6, jumped to EUR 25 last September. This was an increase of more than 400%, which inevitably influenced electricity prices in most EU countries. We in Poland have maintained energy prices at the current level acceptable to consumers. The protective umbrella, which is adopted 2 months ago, is wide enough to stop prices wherever there is pressure for a raise, from households to businesses and local governments. The legislative process that we are continuing today concerns clarification and elimination of interpretations distorting the intentions of the legislator. The aim is to clarify the rules and dispel the concerns of the actors involved in the activities covered by the Act, inter alia. President of the Energy Regulatory Office. The Act also gives the possibility to apply for the payment of the energy price difference to the final consumer who does not use trading companies but buys on his own on the stock exchange. The amendment also refers to the deadline for amending contracts with the date of adoption of the regulation by the Minister of Energy, creating good conditions for companies to effectively adapt the turnover of contracts linking them with recipients to the provisions of the Act. It is worth mentioning that the December project did not assume interference with the power regulator's powers from the beginning. The legislator only imposed a new, 95% reduction in the level of the transitional fee, leaving the rest of the network tariff setting process under the existing rules. The revision, by deleting the regulation on network tariffs in relation to the 2018 rate level, simplifies the system while ensuring that the transitional fee is reduced without increasing the burden for final customers on transmission and distribution charges compared to last year. The aim of the Act remains unchanged: to protect Poles from rising electricity prices. The amendment also provides that all types of electricity supply contracts will be covered by the fixed price. This was also the intention of passing a law at the beginning. The amendment aims to clarify the rules in order to eliminate interpretations that delete certain types of contracts for the sale of energy, e.g. such as would be considered convenient in terms of their interests for the omission of the trading company. Ladies and gentlemen! Today we discussed this proposal in detail at the meeting of the Committee on Energy and the Treasury. The Commission adopted a draft law without a vote against. On the other hand, we also draw conclusions from those voices that appeared, talks about improving the bill to make it clearer. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I make seven amendments to this law and ask the High House to accept them. Earlier, of course, the Committee on Energy and the Treasury will debate this. Thank you so much for listening. Your Marshal is handing over the amendments to the bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u273	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u274	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition club vis-à-vis the bill contained in prints 3217 and 3220. It is difficult not to refer to today's amendment, without going back a little bit to history, let's say the one from 2018, but maybe earlier. Today we are watching, we have to say clearly, another episode of the show: electricity prices. Previously, the prime minister, who lied all the time on the subject, was represented by representatives of the Ministry of Energy, who work in some chaos, are incompetent. For 3 years in the Polish energy market, the Government of Law and Justice has created a monopoly of energy producers and fuel companies who raise and dictate prices. It was almost completely eliminated, it can be said clearly, a stock exchange obligation. The possibility of selecting the cheapest supply of electricity has been eliminated. You didn't do anything to reduce the cost. During the last months of last year, we have seen the inability, helplessness and incompetence of the rule of law and justice. This is particularly true of the last days of 2018, when the President of URE declared to you that energy companies supervised by the Minister of Energy have applied for a 40% increase in prices, not 5%, as estimated by the Minister. You saw then what the lack of energy policy in Poland led to. In the last days of December 2018, there was a panic. The Prime Minister and the Minister of Energy have surpassed the idea of how to lower prices, how not to make Poles pay no more for electricity. The whole country was watching this. Poles laughed at it. Finally, at the specially convened meeting of the Sejm in December, you brought the bill to the Sejm. He seemed to be fit, thoughtful. You wanted to cut excise duty, you wanted to cut the transition fee by 95%, which you didn't raise two years earlier. The project was so well prepared that at the committee meeting you immediately brought a briefcase of amendments to this project. You're doing the same thing today. The fact that the bill was written on the knee was evidenced by these amendments, a briefcase full of amendments. After 2 months of operation of this law, on which we examined at night, on which we voted very quickly and efficiently in the Seym in the last days of 2018... There was supposed to be a bill, from 1 January we were going to release Poles from price increases. What does it turn out to be? Once again, the Prime Minister's lie about stopping the rise in energy prices comes out. You don't even have to prove that in court. Not so long ago, because a few days ago, the president of URE made it clear that there was actually no energy for sale. Companies don't have the energy to sell, you can't make deals. The energy that needs to be sold in such a situation is energy from the reserve, which is much more expensive. Isn't that a raise? Today, on the next episode of this series on electricity prices, they act as the main Members of Law and Justice. They bring these amendments to the Sejm, they bring the amendment. The government is already ashamed of what he's done. Today it suddenly turns out that we need to think about those who, through brokerage houses, buy electricity on the Freight Energy Exchange. Today, these customers are forced to print out and apply for funds to be recovered from this surplus. What a paradox. After all, we talked about these issues in December 2018 when we were investigating this law. We talked about the non-compliance of the law with European Union law, the limitation of the role of President of the URE [[♪ The bell ♪]] as independent, we asked if all the contracts would be covered...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u275	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of the Member...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u276	Marshal, I'd like to say the last sentence. The Civic Platform will not lay hands on this bill. We said this at the last session of the Sejm when we adopted the law in 2018.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u277	It's all clear, sir. Please take the floor...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u278	Law and Justice will bear full responsibility for what they do with energy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u279	...Mr Krzysztof Sitarski from the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u280	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz club15 on the report of the committee on the parliamentary draft law amending the Act amending the excise duty law and certain other laws, prints Nos 3217 and 3220. The draft law concerns the regulation of electricity charges for the final consumer as from 1 January 2019. According to the designers, the aim of the law is to stop electricity prices for buyers. The new rules are intended to cover the price of electricity. And here's the question. It is about stopping electricity prices for buyers, but in 2019. There is no clear declaration of what this will look like in 2020. And here's an appeal to think about it, because 2019 is an electoral year, and electricity payments apply every year, they're still there. In the long term, we need to consider how to resolve this. It's just that this whole thing isn't completely thought out here. On the other hand, in order to balance the Commission's request for a public hearing, it would in practice delay the work of the Act by at least two to three weeks, which would translate into higher energy prices for citizens. We don't want that either. This is what we must fight for so that citizens do not pay high prices. I am very happy for one reason, namely that Kukiz15 on 3 December has publicly presented the idea of how a reduction in excise duty on electricity should be carried out. I'm glad it was noticed and the Ministry of Energy went that way. But that's not all. Among the fiscal burdens of electricity is also VAT - it can be worked on - and there are fiscal burdens on hard coal - several dozen types of different taxes and burdens depressing mining - causing an increase in the price of hard coal, on which, however there is, energy is based in Poland, which translates directly into the final price of electricity. Another threat is, unfortunately, slowing down the trend of electricity price increases for the following years, as wholesale prices have stopped trading on the market. This is direct information from the Freight Exchange, you can look at it. I believe that there is still so much time that the government should bend over and think, work on the price of electricity in the future, not only for 2019, but above all for future years. Kukiz is looking at the whole process with concern for the price of electricity. We are in favour of directing this to further work in the committee, because there must be an appropriate consensus for citizens and for entrepreneurs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u281	Thank you. I ask the floor of Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, PSL - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u282	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Speaking on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats in the scope of this law, I would like to say that the jokes are already over. This issue needs to be taken seriously because the effects will be irreversible for the economy as a whole. We can now do politics and curse the reality that we have protected Poles from rising electricity prices. We didn't. The increase in energy prices will be this year, and it cannot be avoided, and we have heard it today. On the other hand, in December, it was probably December 28th, here in the Seym at an extraordinary meeting, I said: Why are we in such a hurry? Let's think about it and make a good bill. No, 'cause it's got to come in by the end of the year. So what? Is it in? It didn't come in. Do we have a bill that works? It's not working. We don't know exactly what we're going to do with all this today, because this solution is for today, and tomorrow it might turn out to be out of date. These are serious matters. This cannot be done on an ad hoc basis, on the basis of an amendment to the amendment, and we will go further, because industry is already experiencing an increase in energy prices. And what happens next? What about the energy-intensive industry? We're gonna be able to stop this right now. Taking responsibility for the European Union is ridiculous, really. The entire last year was known what the prices of emission allowances are and nothing has been done in this respect. Coal prices were rapidly rising - nothing was done. But the cause is much deeper. We just don't have an energy market. There's an energy monopoly. What has been done by this law is a 30-year withdrawal in terms of the functioning of the entire energy system. At the moment, we have a monopolised field of electricity generation and we cannot talk about any competitiveness that, by being competitive companies, we can maintain the price of electricity at a competitive level. Another thing - and this is not much said - is that we have practically destroyed the renewable energy system. The windmills - there was a great euphoria when windmills were cut out, at this moment I think it is even heard somewhere that these windmills will probably need to be restored, because today we have a price of energy cheaper from windmills than from coal. This is also part of the responsibility for what happened in the energy system. Today, as I said, the jokes are over because you can predict what the price of emission allowances will be. She's not gonna go down, she's gonna go up, which means the price of electricity is gonna go up, because maybe the reserves we had this year were useful, they were found somewhere free emission allowances, but next year they won't be there. All this suggests that the price of coal will probably be higher. We've lowered the transmission fee, but next year, there's nothing to be reduced. The question is, what are we going to lower? We've reduced the excise duty to 5%, just below 5%. We're not gonna lower it, and the cost of production is gonna go up, so the price of energy is gonna go up. And this is where you really need a moment of reflection. I think sometimes it's worth listening to what the opposition says, because the energy system isn't something that only works in one year or in one team. If something breaks down, it's hard to bring it back and the economy will feel it, and like the economy, it's hard for the citizens. I'm afraid today the biggest threat, even when it comes to economic slowdown, could be energy prices if we don't bring it to some sort of order, because right now you're totally dissipating at energy prices. In fact, no one knows anything: what will be the price of energy, what regulations will apply. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Really, it's time for reflection. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u283	And please take the floor of Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u284	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The question is whether Poles pay smaller bills. No. They pay higher. Did you do the favors of the Poles that you passed this bill? No, because in 2016, 2017, 2018 you have already raised energy prices so that you have now taken your head and when the energy producers came and applied for a 40% increase in tariffs, you have found that before the election year an additional 40% He's gonna kill you. What about energy policy? There's no energy policy. You just don't know what to do. You have come down here, you have said, you have brought down the whole renewable energy sector. We are in such a situation right now that you are saying that costs are rising and fees must be higher, because the European Union has increased its emission allowances due to higher prices for coal mining. But what does it turn out to be? When Chief URE came to the meeting and explained the situation, he said something wasn't right. We have examined the requests for tariff increases, and what did it turn out to be? That when the increased extraction costs were deducted, when the cost of the increase in emissions charges was deducted, these charges were still raised. This is a demonstration of how you act. I'm not surprised that after such statements, after a lot of pretense, the head of the URE limits his independence, and it's clearly going in that direction. Does this bill change anything? Another law, which is supposedly prepared by a group of Members. This is a show that you're just cheating. You're cheating because it's known that this bill was prepared at the Ministry of Energy, and I'll honestly admit that it's very inefficient. Last year you lied because this morning the Minister of Energy said there would be raises, the Prime Minister would leave this afternoon and say there would be no raises. Well, people are going crazy because they don't know who to believe anymore. As the Prime Minister said that there would be no raises and he did not add that for individuals, it is panic at the Ministry of Energy, the honor of the Prime Minister must be saved quickly, because the third time will be judged a liar by the court, because the increases will be. Therefore, you prepared a law at the end of 2018, which was intended to protect society from rising energy prices. So? What bills do we pay? We pay higher bills. Perhaps the distributors at the end of the year will be graciously willing to pay us back this money, compensating for it, which means for a year we finance the activities of distribution companies from our own pockets... I wonder if they'll pay us back with interest or no money. This is very interesting. Look, I don't think you guys really got it under control. I am sorry to say this because all Poles who pay higher rates are suffering. You're saying you're raising energy prices because they have to be raised because there's 101% in Austria. Let's not be ridiculous, because I'm going to say that in Ukraine they pay less. Will you then adapt this to the prices in Ukraine? You're not gonna adjust. So just don't say things like that. This is supposed to be a real price, but there is no energy market in Poland. It has led to the monopolization of this market, both energy production, energy transmission and energy distribution. What's the competition supposed to look like when it's all monopolized? You just want to manually control the entire economy. You will determine what the price will be. Why don't we go out and say, in 2025, the price for 1 kWh is going to be that much. That's what you guys do. You just go out and say, "This is what it's gonna be." Is there any other possibility? Do you allow competition? No. You bought out other companies that were still involved in distribution because you thought that no, energy has to be Polish, so you have to buy back the companies that have functioned until now. The result is that there is no competition, prices are rising and they will rise, you do not control it, and we all pay for it. The problem is that this was the only option, the energy-intensive industry could actually be competitive for the Western industry at lower rates. You will lead to the situation that the Polish economy will no longer be able to compete at all, because labour costs have gone up. Raise energy prices and we will simply have no chance in competition with the Western industry. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u285	Thank you. Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of you like to join the list of people asking questions? I can't see. I'm closing the list. I would like to ask Mr Paweł Bańkowski, the PO-KO question. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u286	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On 1 January of this year, the Act entered into force, which was to reduce excise duty and the transitional fee, while energy prices did not fall at all, energy companies did not renegotiate prices with customers, there were no regulations. Questions, Minister. When are these regulations gonna be? Is it true that energy companies have planned a significant reduction in the costs of their activities, including a reduction in the costs of their activity vertically? Is it true that Tauron Polska Energia has planned to reduce costs of PLN 1 billion and this threatens to fire workers? Is it true that energy companies do not sign new contracts with final customers, apart from individual customers, offer energy sales from reserves and the price is higher? And is it true, Minister, that the price of energy will not rise in 2020? Will you give such a guarantee to local governments who have signed a contract for two years? And how did this happen, Minister, that you persuaded us? [[♪ The bell ♪]] That the price of coal is... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u287	Thank you. I would ask you to ask Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u288	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We introduced a bill in December that was supposed to decide that the price of energy would not increase. It was supposed to be a quick regulation of one and the other. It turns out it's been two months and there's no regulation. I wanted to ask you something. The Act shall apply until the end of 2019. Have you started working on another law protecting Poles from rising energy prices? What's your idea of what's gonna happen in 2020? Let us remember that, as you said, you started this procedure much, much, much earlier. We are already past 2 months of 2019, when you prepare these regulations, it will probably be another 2 months since the law came into force, and we have six months. And when are you gonna start working on the next laws that are gonna fix all this in 2020? Will there be increases for Poles also in 2020? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u289	I would ask you to ask Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, PSL - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u290	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have this question: Will there be higher electricity prices this year - I would like to hear it because I could have been wrong - and how much? How much higher will the electricity prices be next year? I'd like to hear it because when I took the floor in December and talked about it quite strongly, I heard it from the right side of the shouting room, and it turned out to be ours, it turned out to be mine. But don't tell me we're in favour of raising people's price of electricity, because it's stupid. I would be the last to wish Poles that this would happen. But I have another question, because this is a passageway. It's a good thing something was done. I'm glad you guys did something, but this is a shortcut, this is a shortcut. Do you have any idea what's next because it can't work like this? And I think that anyone who is aware of a little bit of orientation shares the view that there must be some further solutions here. For now, for today, we can agree that there is something. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But what's next? Because there's gonna be drama. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u291	Thank you, sir. I ask you to ask Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u292	Thank you, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the context of the discussion on this project clarifying the changes we made at the end of last year, I would like to reiterate the point that I have already raised before. The burden on industrial installations producing fossil fuels artificially generated carbon costs creates pressure to select non-green and generate real pollution in ways of heating homes, especially smog. After the elections to the European Parliament, will there finally be a moment of reflection on the fact that adding to the price of production of electricity and system heat the artificial additional charge results in the selection of small coal domestic boilers as a way of heating newly built houses? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u293	Thank you. The question will now be asked by Mr Zdzisław Gawlik, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u294	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This bill, first of all, is proof of the inability and incompetence of the PiS government. Proof? Electricity prices on the stock exchange have already increased in March. In April, everyone knew something was going on in the market. They were waiting until December to take action. The reality has previously been predicted - that the increase in energy prices will be up to 5%. Then it was said that it wasn't at all. Today we have what we have. And, secondly, this bill is the tax that the poorest Poles pay to the richest, because please note that it pays everyone extra, regardless of whether they use one light bulb or 100 light bulbs. You are not taking advantage of opportunities, other tools in the law, to help those who need help if energy prices rise. And the question, Minister: Is the price we are talking about, this reference price, the price of the contract or the price of the offer? How much are we talking about? Because we're talking about the perfect law again, and we don't really know, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which point of reference we are dealing with. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u295	Thank you very much. I would ask you to ask Mr Sitarski, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u296	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have this question: Was the honourable Minister, whom I appreciate very much and for his expertise and cooperation, graciously familiar with the draft law of the Kukiz club15, which the group of Members presented, namely the reduction of VAT and the reduction of excise duties on electricity, which may be a remedy for problems with electricity prices? I would ask you to consider this solution. It is in line with the EU directives. It is a proposal to change excise duties to a ceiling of PLN 4,50 and to reduce VAT to a ceiling of 5%. This is in line with the legal conditions of the European Union. Perhaps this would be a reason for electricity prices after 2019, because this prosthesis will only last until the end of the year, being somehow inhibited. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u297	Thank you. I now ask you to speak and answer the questions asked by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy of Mr Tadeusz Skobl.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u298	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I answer the questions that have been raised by the Minister of Energy. Mr Paweł Bańkowski asked when the regulations would be issued, asking if it was true that today the agreement on energy would be the same in the following year. Regulations concerning this law, as I said at the Senate meeting where I had the opportunity to speak, appeared shortly after the adoption of this law. On the other hand, the incoming proposals and consultations, which were carried out primarily with the European Union, indicated that a certain part of this law could raise doubts. on the independence of the President of the Energy Regulatory Office. Therefore, the documents that were prepared at that time had to be adjusted for these data resulting from the consultation with the European Union. They're all set anyway. Because in subsequent speeches, e.g. in Mr Gadowski's case, the same question arises when a regulation appears, and I answer that question in this way. This regulation will come at a time when this amendment, which we are currently working on, will close its legislative dimension. This regulation is ready and if, in addition to the amendments that result from this procedure which we are currently conducting, there will be no other substantive amendments, it will be 90% I'm sure it'll be like this, except for those amendments that may be related to those 10%. which we do not yet know about, and which we will find out about after reading these projects, additions and changes. As regards the reduction of operating costs, dear country, each company in its media information gives you the limits. This is common knowledge, this is not knowledge that only one of the shareholders of these companies, the Minister of Energy, has. You know, these aren't 100% companies. Minister of Energy. Therefore, its power or knowledge of this matter, if selective, would indicate unequal treatment of other shareholders. Are we moving on to what will be in 2020? As we look at the bill that was discussed and adopted in the previous year, 28 December, and what is happening at the moment, the two elements are certainly unchanged. The level of excise duty remains unchanged and the transitional fee remains unchanged. I answer Mr Sitarski's question about the reduction of VAT and excise duty. This was taken into account. We've been familiar with your project. This was taken into account. As a result, the possibilities that existed under the government's action were found to be that, while excise duty matters are in the process at this point in time, the question of VAT, which is not such a simple issue to be converted, will still need to be consulted with the European Union. It's not like the government's putting it in place, and it can apply right away. We wanted the price level of electricity from 2018 to be maintained in 2019. And this level regardless of whether distribution from those regulations we were talking about at the moment is excluded at the end of 2018 or not... Looking at the level of the transitional fee, a 95% reduction in the transitional fee as you look at the size of the distribution account, this account should not increase. Of course, the President of the URE finally approves the calculation of tariffs, while looking at the volumes that occur when the transitional fee is reduced, there is no room for increasing the bill for distribution. As for electricity, these volumes are adopted at the level of June 2018, i.e. we know what they are. Compensation or this price difference is foreseen for a wide range of customers. For example, in this amendment you already have what you have demanded earlier in your statements when presenting the previous version of the law, which in a very difficult way may have defined who it belongs to. It is now known that it is appropriate that this applies to all recipients. The method of calculating the price is indicated in the Regulation. This regulation contains all these elements discussed in broad bodies. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not that only the Ministry of Energy has established and established the scope of these regulations. In these regulations, we were tempted to... I myself am the chairman of this team under the Energy Minister's regulation. We have asked the Energy Trading Society, PTPiREE, KIGEiT, i.e. all these organizations, especially TOE and KIGEiT, which bring together all electricity sellers to discuss such a model in a regulation that would be closest to the model expected by these groups, so that the market could also function. In addition to those organizations I've told you about, there's the Energy Regulatory Office. He is also a participant and is discussing with us what the regulation is to be. He's still discussing the UOKiK. There is also P.z.p., because, as you know, in local governments Public procurement law is respected in a broad spectrum as regards the purchase of electricity. It was also necessary that the Public Procurement Office's position was that these laws could be converted on some basis into such a condition that the price that appeared in 2018 after 30 June would be the price that was to be applied on 30 June in order to meet the condition that we mentioned in the Act of 28 December as well as what we are talking about at the moment. So it's not like the ministry is involved in this alone. We have asked a broad spectrum of these institutions, which I was talking about, to make this regulation the best regulation. I believe that there is no better group than what I mentioned, where is the Energy Trading Society, which brings together many consumers, where there is the National Chamber of Commerce for Electronics and Telecommunications, where there is also a large number of smaller sellers of electricity. The idea is for everyone to be able to look at this, with the supervision and look also at the Energy Regulatory Office, with the participation of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection and taking into account the law of public procurement. So be calm about it. The ideal solution for such a difficult case probably does not exist, but what has been developed by this team is what we think is the best solution we can offer to society. And the question was, what's our idea of what to do next? Ladies and gentlemen, there was one thing I was talking about on the committee. It became a special thing in the second half of this year. It is about the functioning of the exchange ended with the fact that the President of the Energy Regulatory Office, although only in December of the previous year, 2018, pointed out two entities - I do not know them, but this is addressed to the prosecutor - who could manipulate the energy exchange. He also started REMIT proceedings. It is clear that when it comes to the electricity sold on the stock market, the level and reliability of the electricity market, this is far from the reality if such proceedings were brought by the President of the Energy Regulatory Office. It is a pity that it happened so late, because it caused that throughout the second half of the year for a good cause it functioned in conditions that differed from reliability. What was the level of integrity, they will show us, I think, the processes that have been implemented, but this is one of the main elements for which we considered that such regulation is necessary, because these prices are transferred to contracts established by sellers in relation to customers. They take as a benchmark the level of electricity exchange prices. Ladies and gentlemen! It was crucial and important that, at the time of this state of affairs: another, unusual, we will see with what final effect, in terms of these proceedings, to indicate such a way as to ensure that Poles in 2019 are not burdened with what happened on the stock exchange in 2018, especially in the second half of this year. Hence, our actions, so that both the individual recipient, I mean the recipients of the G group or in the G tariff, as well as any other recipient could have a price stabilized in such a way that both he and the Polish state and all companies could grow well. We have pointed out the measures that are necessary to achieve this objective. As of today, after the end of the legislation, we will present a regulation and will be all the data, all the information necessary to enable the state of affairs to be presented primarily to electricity sellers as regards the settlement between the seller and the settlement manager, which settles this price. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that we have done everything that could have been done in this regard. If you say that it was so bad in our governments and these prices rose so rapidly, then I will just remind you, I have a chart ahead of me, electricity prices in Poland in the years 2008 and 2018. Over the years, from 2009 to 2013, the energy price has increased by 52% for households. In relation to this maximum level of 2012 and 2013, mid-2013, this price, which could possibly function, would have been higher by 14%. This price was lower for the years of the rule of law and justice, both in 2015, 2016, 2017 and in 2018. So that talking about how we broke the market and that's how it works... It's just not true. Ladies and gentlemen, we will do our utmost to ensure that, once these regulations have been introduced, all their mechanisms are in place for the benefit of the Polish society. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u299	Thank you. Mr Maciej Małecki, the applicant's representative, will also speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u300	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to remind you that this amendment clarifies, clarifies and eliminates interpretation doubts, while it does not change the basic things that we adopted on 28 December, i.e. the reduction of excise duty from 20 PLN to 5 PLN per MWh, the radical reduction of the transitional fee by 95% and thus the reduction of VAT. This law helps protect wallets of Poles, Polish families and to work together on it, to complete this legislative process I encourage the entire High House. I stress that today, the Committee on Energy and the Treasury adopted this proposal without any objection. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u301	Thank you. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Commission for Energy and the Treasury in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 32 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code Act and some other laws (Print No 3137). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Łukasz Piebiak to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u302	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The primary objective of the draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code and certain other laws contained in print 3137 submitted by the Council of Ministers to the High House is to improve and speed up the judicial investigation in civil matters. The information coming to the Ministry of Justice gives rise to the assessment that the efficiency and speed of judicial proceedings in civil matters in relation to the measures involved is not satisfactory and, above all, does not meet social expectations. In general, this is due to the lack of compliance of court procedures largely from the 19th century with the requirements of the post-industrial information society. The current model of civil proceedings is not flexible enough to allow for a swift settlement of the dispute while respecting the principles of fair trial and any procedural guarantees. Today's civil proceedings are not immune to disorganizing factors, especially to procedural obstruction. The proposed amendment to the Civil Procedure Code takes up the challenge of breaking the difficulties that the previous governments have not noticed. The proposed solutions are largely based on proposals presented during public debates, such as: a change in the institution so called reservations to the protocol. The purpose of the various changes was assessed not only from a doctrinal point of view, but also from the point of view of practical effects on civil justice through the use of practitioners' opinions. The first area in which the proposal introduces significant changes is the organisation of the court's work on the case. In place of an organisation based on a mandatory hearing model, but without a separate preparatory phase, a flexible model is introduced to adapt the method of investigation to the circumstances of a particular case. The possibility of adversarial ruling outside the hearing will be used more widely. In addition, the new model of organisation of proceedings puts a stronger emphasis on achieving a settlement of the dispute than before. The model provides for the drawing up of a hearing plan - in those cases which require it because of the complexity or complexity - which sets out the parties' demands and objections in detail - to determine the issues at issue, it already sets out the evidence necessary to carry out the case and, above all, sets the time limits for the meetings and the probable time limit for the decision. Changes in the organisation of the hearing also include the principle that the judgment should take place after the first date of the hearing and, if that is not possible, subsequent time limits for the hearing should be fixed on the following days either directly or closely thereafter, in order to avoid multiple-month breaks between meetings. Another area in which the project changes the current process reality is the fight against procedural obstruction. It is regrettable to say that procedural obstruction has become an exception if not a rule, it is certainly a common phenomenon. It's not. What is surprising, however, is that in the current legal situation there is no regulation allowing such behaviour to be combated or prevented. Obstructive behaviours are collectively defined as abuse of procedural law and defined as the deliberate exercise of their procedural rights in a manner incompatible with the purpose for which they serve. On the basis of experience from practice, abuses have been identified, the effects of which are most detrimental to the efficiency of the proceedings: a chain of complaints on the same issue, chains of requests to exclude a judge based on the same circumstances or requests for interpretation of the judgment. Instruments have been provided for such proceedings by the court to prevent the intended delay in the recognition of the case. Unsubstantiated letters aiming only at delay in proceedings will, of course, be able to leave the court without recognition in the file of the case. On the other hand, the charge of set-off, which has so far been a very effective tool of procedural obstruction, is subject to restrictions aimed at eliminating the charges of set-off in bad faith. The proposal also significantly changes the regulation of separate procedures in the civil process, i.e. procedures for identifying cases with specific characteristics. First of all, there is a re-introduction of a separate procedure in economic matters, which, on the one hand, by greater rigour, motivates participants to carry out evidence and, on the other hand, opens up opportunities to use information technology more efficiently than ever before. In a simplified procedure, the scope of which is significantly extended, mechanisms are put in place to allow less stringent treatment of the obligations of evidence in order to speed up the procedure. In electronic reprimanding proceedings, the link between this procedure and the ordinary process, which has so far caused numerous problems in contact with traditional judiciary, is relaxed. The regulation of prescriptive and reprimanding proceedings shall be structured. In addition to these three major changes, the project includes a number of improvements concerning the various aspects of civil proceedings that will allow the existing reserves in the justice system to be used. Firstly, it is a change in the jurisdiction of the court, which is pro-consumer on the one hand, as it requires that cases against the consumer be brought before the court in which the consumer's district is resident. On the other hand, this reduces the impact on the most heavily charged large-town courts, which should help to offset the burden on courts to work across the country. The project introduces a number of new solutions to the investigation of evidence, including in particular the possibility of negotiating the remuneration of experts, allows witnesses to make written statements, makes greater use of the evidence contained in court files or by other public authorities. As a complement to the existing possibility of issuing a judgment without a hearing since 2016, the draft provides as a rule for issuing rules at classified meetings. In many cases, the current obligation to hold meetings is replaced by the obligation to hear the parties, which is more flexible because they can be carried out outside the meeting, including in writing. The project limits formalism when announcing and justifying judgments, which will allow judges to focus on their remaining responsibilities. This concerns, in particular, the withdrawal from the obligation to publish judgments and provisions at a sitting which no one has put themselves before, i.e. an empty courtroom, and the requirement to be concise with the court's justifications. It is also a principle that provisions issued at a secret meeting shall be justified only at the request of the party. This will save the work of judges and courts and thus speed up proceedings. The proposal provides for simplification of the procedure for the recognition of remedies. On the one hand, these amendments are based on the fact that some of the complaints will be dealt with by another composition of the same court which issued the contested decision, without the need to transfer the whole of the file together with the appeal to the Court of Appeal, i.e. the so-called. horizontal complaints. On the other hand, the principle was adopted that the review of the appeal brought, such as the examination of the timeliness, the shortcomings of formal and fiscal remedies addressed to the Court of First Instance, is carried out only by the court, that is, the court of second instance, and not, so far, also by the Court of First Instance. In the context of the Court of First Instance, the powers of formal review of remedies have been extended to referenda. It is designed to extend the powers of referents who will also be authorised to act in appeals courts, to issue orders for payment in court proceedings and to act in most of the registers kept by courts. Changes in court fees are primarily aimed at simplifying the system of fees, strengthening their incentive role. Fees should be designed so that cost-effective procedural actions lead to the most efficient solution to the dispute. The project also provides for a clear preference for consumers, workers and households. Consumer rights are expected to be so called. a fee bonus, i.e. a reduction in the claim fee resulting from an attempt to settle a dispute before an action is brought. The project also contains a number of minor changes concerning individual civil process institutions, whose common aim is to save the time and work required of the court and, above all, of the parties for the effective enforcement of their rights. In summary, the proposed changes are intended to make civil proceedings more effective, efficient and cheaper and thus more accessible to the average citizen. These changes are not only necessary but necessary for the smooth functioning of the justice system. I therefore request that the High House adopt the bill submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u303	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk, Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u304	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code Act and some other laws, print no. 3137. High Izbo! Undoubtedly, this amendment to the Civil Procedure Code is one of the biggest amendments that have taken place in recent years in the Polish Parliament. It should be stressed that this great book, which has been delivered to parliamentarians - this is what it looks like, I must say that such a brick has not yet been in my hand in the last few years - presents a number of regulations aimed at improving efficiency and speeding up civil proceedings. This law undoubtedly creates a number of new institutions under the regulation of civil procedure, such as mediation, such as speeding up proceedings before civil courts, where one of the elements is the exemption from the legal fees of the inefficient and workers who acquire their rights from employers, as well as lower costs for victims of unfair sellers or victims in general of the economic system, banks, e.g. François. A number of new solutions are also being introduced - I would say innovative - at every stage of judicial proceedings: new elements are being introduced at the preparatory stage as well as new institutions at the various stages of judicial proceedings. Undoubtedly, this great amendment must be discussed in the codification committee, because the draft will be addressed to this committee. There are a number of new solutions, a number of new institutions. Of course, I am curious about the voice of practitioners, lawyers, judges, but also other participants in the proceedings who will comment on or give an opinion on the proposed solutions. It seems that many of these solutions should make procedures more efficient, speed them up, improve them, and resolve proceedings at the first stage, already at the first court meeting. So, in conclusion, High Izbo, without entering into the description of a number of different institutions that are described in this project, I would like to stress that Law and Justice support the submitted government project. Of course, we declare hard and persistent work on this major project in the Committee on Change in Codifications. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u305	Thank you. Mr Zdzisław Gawlik, PO-KO, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u306	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform - the Civic Coalition - I wanted to put forward a position on the draft contained in print 3137. The draft law on the amendment of the Civil Procedure Code Act was divided into 10 parts within which the reasons for the proposed amendments were presented. Individual bodies of reasons shall include: preparation of the hearing, prevention of abuse of procedural law, matters of evidence, justification of judgments and appeal proceedings, proceedings in economic matters, other separate proceedings, general improvement of proceedings, proceedings to safeguard judicial costs, introductory and transitional provisions. The justification for the project is 210 pages, and the text of the amendment is placed on 69 pages. As a result, we are dealing, at least for the sake of the figures given, with a comprehensive revision of civil procedural law, as well as some other laws which are amended here: the ownership of premises, the general court system, the claim in group proceedings, the bailiffs. The existing Civil Procedure Code was amended several times after 1989. These were both amendments with a deep, even model structure, nature, as well as changes that were less important. However, they have all been done in an evolutionary manner over recent years. The overall objective of the proposed project is, as a result of the content of the statement of reasons, to improve and, literally, to accelerate civil proceedings and to improve the situation of the citizen present in the court. The justification for the project states that according to the data of the Minister of Justice, the number of cases affecting civil courts is increasing, as a result of which time is extended for cases to be dealt with in the first instance. The data presented in the explanatory memorandum would, of course, require a deeper analysis of the reasons for the case: whether delays in the examination of cases are not a consequence of the ministry's policy in holding the appointments of judges, resulting in a decreasing number of judges. The justification for the project also points to other shortcomings in the justice system. The views are expressed that the proposed amendment to the Code of Civil Procedure constitutes the most fundamental amendment of civil procedural law since the adoption of the Code of Civil Procedure. The view would only be so true if we measured the scale of these changes by the number of pages on which the changes and even the number of changes were placed. In reality, however, it is different. A large proportion of the changes contained in the project are of secondary importance or technical nature. The proposed amendments include a change of technical nature without a substantive consequence of changes to the rules, e.g. the change of concepts from the facts to facts or from the case to an accident or in the event of an accident. You can also ask questions about the validity of the amendment, e.g. Article 2 355 c.p.c. concerning the termination of proceedings. Undoubtedly, some of the changes have nothing to do with speeding up civil proceedings or improving the position of a citizen in court. On the contrary, it seems that some solutions have even worsened the existing status of the parties in the proceedings. To sum up this part of the statement: it seems that this random range of changes gives rise to the belief that the design shape is a generalization of the practical experience of the designers - I do not claim that it does not matter. Numerous and frequent, sometimes accidental changes to code rules are not desirable. Unfortunately, within the framework of the no longer existing Committee on Civil Law Codification, acting at the Minister of Justice, acting first under the direction of Prof. Zygmunt Radwański, and then Prof. Tadeusz Ereciński, the idea arose that the current amendments to civil law should be limited to the minimum necessary, but work on the new modern Code of Civil Procedure. These works, let us add, have been undertaken, but have been abandoned with the actual liquidation of the codification committee. The amendment of the Code, which would pursue such important objectives as set out in the explanatory memorandum, should not be of an incidental and clipping nature, but should fall within the scope of the comprehensive and complete procedural regulation of the new Code of Civil Procedure. Any change in the model of civil proceedings should be preceded by a profoundly substantive discussion involving representatives of all legal professions and scientific backgrounds, and the project itself should be thoroughly refined. Hurrying here is a harmful thing. An example of a solution that seems to be subject to deeper regulation is the proposal to restore it to c.p.c. provisions on separate economic proceedings. The only argument in favour of restoring this procedure is the extension of the economic proceedings after 3 May 2012. The provisions in force before that date have been examined in a manner known to the Constitutional Court and the solutions currently proposed should also be assessed in this respect. In addition, the project submitted does not comply with the principle, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that subjecting the case to a decision should guarantee its maximum objectivity. Increasing the discretion of a judge at the expense of a prelude is beneficial, but if...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u307	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u308	I'll finish my sentence. ...requires a reduction in the rights of the parties, which means that it goes too far. Also... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u309	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Grzegorz Długi, Kukiz Club15. There isn't. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, PSL - Union of European Democrats. There isn't any either. Member of the Commission, Marshal Barbara Dolniak, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u310	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The revision of the Civil Procedure Code is necessary, but it should be borne in mind that excessive concentration of procedural material may be associated with formalism rather than with a thorough examination of the actual circumstances and the issuing of a fair ruling. Detailed solutions can be found in the project, which can help to improve the procedure, but this project is not based on a coherent vision of the civil process. This is still not a proposal to undertake a profound systemic reform aimed at modernising, simplifying and harmonising procedures. In legislative terms, the project is dominated by a casuistic approach leading to excessive regulation, which is abandoned in modern procedural regulations. Despite its extensive size, the project does not cover many important issues, and some of the provisions are technical in nature. Changes in the sound do not imply a change of substance. There are linguistic inconsistencies, and there is no comprehensive solution to the individual matter. The new law should provide tools to effectively bring courts closer to citizens and reduce the waiting time for cases to be resolved. The parties shall have the right to adjudicate before an independent and impartial court. Unfortunately, the draft contains provisions which cannot be accepted in the proposed wording. Art. 386 § 5 will create a situation after the adoption of the new wording that will be judged by a judge who has previously delivered a judgment and will be forced to rule again, often contrary to his own belief, on what decision should be given. Moreover, this provision has not been correlated with others. The legislator did not foresee a revision of the article. 48, paragraph 5, according to which the judge is excluded in cases in which he participated in the judgment under appeal at a lower instance. If Art. 48 will remain in its current form, contrary to Article. 386 § 5. It can, of course, be said that this provision is specific, but the analysis of the relationship between the two provisions must lead to the conclusion that both relate to the same factual situation. There is also a need for attention to be paid to the article. Paragraph 4, according to which the proceedings are annulled if the judge excluded from the law took part in the examination of the case. The designer did not foresee changes in this respect. So we are dealing with conflicting and mutually exclusive rules. Processes involving natural persons engaged in economic activities constitute a number of cases in courts. The proposed amendment provides for the possibility of skipping the provisions on economic proceedings. It allows for a significant part of them not to be conducted under this regime. It is clear that the possibility of examining the case in the ordinary process will be exercised by the majority of those who have such a right and therefore the speeding up of proceedings will not be exercised. Unfortunately, the revision is inconsistent in many cases. It's been kept, for example. the rule of rejection of a lawsuit in the absence of a judicial remedy. At the same time, a recovery mechanism was introduced. For what purpose? Presumption of the jurisdiction of the general court requires the rejection of a lawsuit with the instruction of such a court that the case must be brought rather than returned. A curiosity solution has been adopted in the article. 203, since the defendant's claim is limited only to the defendant's claim from the same legal relationship as the claimant's claim, unless the defendant's claim is undisputed or is based on a document which does not come exclusively from the defendant. Acceleration is apparent. The defendant will, instead of defending himself in exploratory proceedings, defend himself in subsequent proceedings in the context of a positional action. Projectors stress the importance of the amendment from the point of view of regulation of abuse. However, the ambition of the creators of the amendment exceeded the final result. The explanatory memorandum states that the abuse of procedural law does not fall within the scope of conceptual conduct contrary to good practices. This thesis is wrong. Unfortunately, the project does not contain a fundamental change in the link between abuse and inefficiencies of the activities of the parties. Once again, the speed of conduct is not a value in itself. Its implementation should not be at the expense of the integrity of the process. I hope that during the committee's work there will be a vision of the civil process, because writing the justifications of the resolutions given at the secret meeting only on request, Minister, will cause a motion to be made in every case and this will radically extend. How much longer will it take to pronounce a judgment in an empty courtroom? Five, ten or 15 minutes? It is said that mediation, as Mr Mularczyk said, will be a way of speeding up, a provision is being introduced. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But she's been here a long time, but you're not campaigning for her. Think about the vision of civil procedure reform.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u311	Thank you. Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of you like to join the list of people asking questions? I can't see. I'm closing the list. I ask you to ask Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u312	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to raise two points that I would like to ask. First line. It is a growing number of cases where honest citizens are burdened by a court order, even though they have not actually been informed that a lawsuit or a request for payment has been filed against them. The adjudicating procedure creates a further burden on the judiciary. Shouldn't the court be required to determine the defendant's actual place of residence as part of rationalisation and improvement? The bailiffs who carry out this execution don't have a problem with it. Secondly, it is still difficult to treat letters, applications addressed by citizens to a court which are not created with the assistance of qualified legal assistance or procedural deputies. The courts deal in different ways in such cases. Should it not be so that the principle that, on the basis of the written position of the party, conclusions cannot be drawn procedurally for that party to be adverse? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u313	Thank you. I would like an answer from the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Minister Łukasz Piebiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u314	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! In answer to the Members' questions, I will say that the answer to the first question is very simple and, I think, responds to the expectations of both the Member and a much larger group of people, i.e. Polish citizens or all parties, who appear before the Polish courts, because they are not only Polish citizens. It is precisely in this proposal that we introduce the principle that the first delivery of the pleading from the court, whether it be a payment order or simply a copy of the application, will be a service which will have to be certain in some way, i.e. the consignment will have to be picked up by the addressee or an adult householder, as it is today, but we exclude the so-called. delivery to aviso, something that caused many human tragedies, many intervention materials in the media, because sometimes dishonest plaintiffs gave outdated or even fictitious addresses. The mailman didn't check 'cause he didn't have it or he didn't want it. It's been a lot of things. In any case, in the end, it happened as the Member said that the citizen had learned from the bailiff that there was a trial against him and that he had lost it and had to pay. And it was often a number of times higher amounts than the ones he might have owed. We introduce the principle that this first service is to be an effective service, that is to say, to the hands of the addressee or the householder, not on an aviso, but possibly through a bailiff. We come from this assumption that since the bailiff can find a debtor to carry out execution operations, he will also be able to find the defendant in a civil trial and deliver him the first pleading in the case. It will protect just ordinary people whose interests should simply be protected. Of course, there could be a charge. - even somewhere, in some statement, not by the Member, but by another of the members present, the representatives of the clubs, in the speech that fell here, one could hear something like this in part - that it would not speed up the procedure or maybe even slow it down. However, when these values are compared, i.e. the protection of rights, which ensures real service, and the speed of conduct, it becomes clear that the first is a higher value. Even if this service by the bailiff would slow down a little bit, it would be worthwhile to bear this cost so that we really have to deal with a civilized, law-abiding process. This is the kind of trial we all expect. The second question was how to treat writings that are not written by professionals and therefore are not always understandable to the court. That, of course, is a powerful problem. The principle in the Code of Civil Procedure, which we do not change, because it would be difficult to imagine, in some way it could be changed, is that we take into account the author's writing and intention, not how this letter was titled and whether or not any particular formalisms were preserved when drawing up this letter. So clearly is the Code of Civil Procedure, and that has been the case for years. Of course, it should not be so that because of the non-professional nature of the site there are some negative consequences. The courts should rule in accordance with this principle, but this is a matter of practice. I hope that rare are cases where the courts, I do not know, are guided by some excessive formalism in assessing the content of the letter. Of course, a panacea to these problems would be the introduction of solicitor-radical coercion, but it could again hit those who could not afford a lawyer or counsel, and would not have financial resources or even knowledge or belief that such assistance should simply be sought. This is, of course, a difficult problem. I hope that another law, which has already fortunately passed through the High House and has begun to function, i.e. a law amending the Law on Free Legal Assistance, in which a full catalogue of persons entitled to free legal assistance has been introduced, will make such situations as you mention rarer, because just anyone who makes a statement - and it is in force since 1 January - that he cannot afford to pay legal aid from his own resources, is entitled to public-funded legal aid. We are talking about professionals, lawyers, lawyers who should formulate correspondence addressed to the court in such a way that the party cannot be affected by the negative consequences of its legal ignorance. After all, not all citizens are lawyers. Most of them aren't, and they don't have to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u315	Thank you. The discussion is closed. Marshal of the Sejm, based on art. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, directs the Government's draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code and certain other laws, contained in print No. 3137, to the Extraordinary Commission for amendments to the codifications for consideration. I'm declaring a time-out. 21. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 min. 44 hours 21 min 03]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Request for a vote of distrust to the Minister of Justice, Zbigniew Ziobra (prints 3162 and 3211). I would ask the applicant's representative, Mrs Gasiuk-Pihowicz, to provide a justification for the proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u316	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! There are tapes of President Kaczyński's recordings, there are statements of an envelope of 50,000. zł, there is an invoice, on which Prime Minister Morawiecki cared so much to make it look like he committed a crime in this case, there is information from lawyers about the pressure on the injured Mr Birgfelnner to change his statement. So? [[Voice from the room: Nothing.]] And there's no prosecution in this case. [[Voice from the room: How is it not there?]] [[Scandal!]] Minister Ziobro! You're in full control of the D.A.'s office. This is the one you run by the D.A.'s office that hasn't even questioned Jarosław Kaczyński, who was recorded on these tapes. The politicians of the ruling party repeat as a mantra that the circumstances of this case, that the behaviour of the President of Jarosław Kaczyński himself is a sign of integrity that this meets all the required standards. Questions are multiplied, doubts are multiplied, and the prosecution, instead of acting decisively, only reinforces the impression that Mr Jarosław Kaczyński is a man excluded from Polish law. If this is to be a sign of honesty, if this is to be a sign of standards in public activity, then I am telling you directly: we do not want your PiS standards of political activity. [[Applause]] High Izbo! Imagine a completely hypothetical situation: What would happen if someone recorded on the tapes of one of the leaders of any opposition party... [[Octopus or something.]] [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] ...when he talks about the money that comes from a bank dependent on his people... [[Voice from the room: It was, it was.]] ...builds two skyscrapers on which the company will make millions of dollars personally linked to a given party? After all, the Attorney-General of Ziobra would immediately initiate a case like this, an investigation, and PiS politicians would say that this is absolutely unacceptable from morning to evening. And they'd be right. High Izbo! In recent days, we have also learned from Mr Birgfelnner's lawyers that during their client's interrogation, they have been so impressed that the prosecutor in charge of this case has tried to assess whether these statements could harm anyone in the PiS. Ladies and gentlemen! The D.A. can't be brought into the role of a political bomb squad who's gonna investigate whether or not a given testimony can harm someone in the ruling party. He is about to check the representatives of the ruling party regardless of what kind of group is in power at the moment. In a normal state, every prosecutor is to look at the hands of the authorities, while in the State of PiS each prosecutor is subject to the representative of the governing formation. It is hard to resist the impression that, in fact, prosecutors at this point are more forced to look at the political whip they have over themselves than to look at the law. It is very difficult at this point to resist the impression that today's prosecution, under the direction of Mr Zbigniew Ziebrara, is the prosecutor's office, which is on the watch of the rulers, not the governed. High Izbo! Until today, there is no specific prosecutorial investigation into the tapes of President Jarosław Kaczyński. There is, however, a notice to the prosecutor's office which requires journalists and opposition Members to be prosecuted, who have decided to investigate this matter. Journalist inquisitiveness, parliamentary integrity will now be pursued by the prosecutor's office led by Mr Zbigniew Ziobra. It's like the police are looking for whoever's suspected of starting a fire started chasing someone who reported a fire. This is intimidation of journalists and Members of the opposition. [[Applause]] [[Do you believe what she's saying?]] High Izbo! The caste above the law, Minister, do you remember those words? It wasn't an assessment of political reality, it was actually your political plan. Today it is hard to resist the impression that you have created a system in which people from the PiS environment are people who create caste above the law. That's how you changed the entire justice system, from the prosecution to the courts, to control it at every level. This whole rampage of degradation and promotions has led you to have people everywhere who owe you either a promotion of life or some special apanasia. It was you, Minister, who was watching over the creation of this machine, which today seems to guarantee impunity, not justice. It was under your auspices that the National Judicial Council was politicized. There are so many people who are associated with you in different ways, that today it is called the National Council of Ziobrovity. It was you, Minister, who carried out the purge among the presidents of the general courts, who were the result of which 129 presidents and vice-presidents of the courts were expelled. It was linked to promotions, after which the question arises: Is not the social connection with the current Minister of Justice? E.g. A colleague from the trained bench of Minister Zbigniew Ziobry became the President of the District Court in Krakow. It was you, Minister, who led to a situation in which disciplinary proceedings are a tool for intimidating all legal professionals who stand firm for internships in the independence of the Polish justice system. Judge Markiewicz, head of the Association of Polish Judges, spokesperson of this association Judge Przymusiński or Judge Tuleya - these are the victims of this mechanism. [[Oh...]] It was you, Minister, who assisted in the attacks on the independence of the Constitutional Tribunal. It was you, Minister, who repeatedly questioned the constitutionally guaranteed six-year term of office of the first Supreme Court President. All these actions have resulted in the fact that an ordinary citizen will now wait longer for his sentence and for any action by the prosecution. High Izbo! As we all see, the record of actions, omissions, mistakes by Mr Zbigniew Ziobra is very extensive. All of these actions have led to our country's international position being undermined in a united Europe. We have been a model of democratic change, we have been an example given to other countries, and now we are marked as those who break EU standards and break out of the Western European community. In addition, in October last year, you submitted a proposal to the Constitutional Court which questioned the compatibility of the Treaty of Lisbon with the Polish Constitution. It was your actions that triggered the Brexit debate for good, because that would be the result of challenging one of the more fundamental EU treaties. Minister! One more disaster for the international position of Poland must be recorded in your account. It was from your department, from the Ministry of Justice, that an amendment to the Act on IPN came out, which ruined Poland's relations with the United States, Ukraine and Israel. High Izbo! Each of these individual reasons I have mentioned would be sufficient to justify a motion to dismiss Mr Zbigniew Ziobra from his role as Minister of Justice. But there's another very important thing I'd like to remind you of. I never thought that I would live in Poland, in which someone could be murdered because of ideas or values he confesses. I don't think anyone sitting in this room today would want his children to live in such Poland. [[Voice from the room: And so it was for the Platforms.]] [[Voice from the hall: In Łódź.]] I never thought that my beloved Poland in the world media would be mentioned in the context of the brutal political murder committed in front of thousands of people. [[This is outrageous, what you're saying.]] This has not happened in Poland, but for a very long time in our country [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] evil did not meet with any reaction of state institutions. [[Voice from the hall: Marek Rosiak in Łódź.]] We all in Poland would like to live in a safe country. [[Voice from the room: We live.]] This climate of security has turned into a climate of impunity. [[Voice from the room: Thank you, ma'am.]] There would be no current atmosphere, there would be no acts of hostility if it weren't for the climate of impunity created by the prosecution's lack of action. [[It's disgusting what you're doing.]] And Mr. Zbigniew Ziobro is now in full control of the D.A.'s office. [[Voice from the room: Where's the finger?]] He's the one who can give a binding order to any prosecutor. This is Mr. Zbigniew Ziobro... [[She's in pain.]] ...is now fully responsible for any mistake and any omission of the prosecution. [[Applause]] High Izbo! Recently, the Civic Coalition Club and the Ombudsman, each separately, called on the Attorney General to resume the entire list of wrongfully dismissed proceedings. So? And nothing, no answer. And the list of redemptions made by prosecutors Zbigniew Ziobra is extremely long. It was the prosecutors of Zbigniew Ziębry who discontinued the proceedings on death certificates issued to 11 presidents of Polish cities, including the murdered President of Gdańsk. It was Ziobra's prosecutors who discontinued the prosecution of the beating, violations of the immunity of women who protested on 11 November 2017 against racist slogans raised on so-called. The Independence March. In the explanatory memorandum, the prosecutor subject to Zbigniew Ziobrze pointed out - I quote: The intent of the attackers was to show their dissatisfaction that the victims were on their marching route, and violence - a quote - was directed at less sensitive parts of the body. Mr. Ziobro has not repealed this decision. Does this mean, Minister, that you think that in the streets of Polish cities you can beat defenseless, protesting women? It was the prosecutors of Zbigniew Ziobra who filed charges against a youth group of all-Polish CODE activists after a peaceful demonstration in Radom commemorating... [[What?]] ... June 1976 was attacked by nationalists. [[Don't lie to me, woman.]] High Izbo! Today in the face of... [[Come to Radom.]] ...the crossing of a certain limit, today, in the face of death, must take decisive action, give a strong signal that there will be no agreement to call for hatred, to instigate this hatred. In these particular circumstances, we must all be really particularly sensitive to all the circumstances that led to the tragedy of Gdańsk. And this is not the time to dig into party positions. This is the moment for the truth. Because today we are here because we represent Poles, we are here for their taxes, we are for their money. And today we are here to guarantee Poles a sense of security. And today let's not think like PiS, PO, Kukiz.15, Modern or PSL. Today we have to think of how people who, when they get out of this debate, go home, look their loved ones in the eyes of their children... [[Voice from the room: Into the mirror.]] ...neighbors, voters who will also look at themselves in the mirror. These bailouts from the prosecution of Zbigniew Ziobra, prosecutors of Zbigniew Ziobra, are not politics. These are dry, hard facts. And today, each of us, each of us, will have to decide for ourselves whether or not this evil will say "no," or whether it will show that it is indifferent, or maybe it will agree to this evil. Today we can't afford the comfort of silence, because the bill for it can be paid with blood again in the future. [[Whose blood?]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Honourable Members! That is why I am calling on you today to vote in favour of dismissing Mr Zbigniew Ziebra from the position of Attorney General and Minister of Justice. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u317	Thank you, Member. I ask Mr Mark Ast to present the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u318	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I have the honour to present the opinion of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights in print 3211 on the parliamentary motion for a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Justice, Zbigniew Ziobra. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. On 23 The Committee on Justice and Human Rights, after considering this request at its meeting on 18 February 2019, decided to take a negative opinion on the proposal. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, bravo!]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Member, 2019.]] Yes, sir, 2019. The vote was as follows: 4 votes in favour of a positive opinion on the proposal... [[27 to 1.]] ...12 votes against... [[Democracy.]] ...and one hold-up. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Marek!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u319	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Nor are questions acceptable as a separate element of the debate. Please, Mr Patryk Jak, Law and Justice have the floor. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] Excuse me, Minister. Mr Mateusz Morawiecki, President of the Council of Ministers, would like to speak. Then? And yet, you're welcome. [[The man of the sanctimonious land.]] [[He's out in front of the line.]] [[The sanctimonious land is watching.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u320	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! Ministers! High Seym! The conclusion we just heard contained a lot of slogans, a lot of demagogy. That's why I'm going to try to match it with hard numbers and hard facts. And then you'll see what the real picture of justice is after over three years. But before we get to that point, High Sejm, I would like to illustrate the proposal that has come to you, to the ladies and gentlemen of the House, because I have not seen anything so pathetic in this House. Let's go to page one. Well, you write this: Zbigniew Ziebra's role as Minister of Justice has led to a drastic slowdown in the functioning of the courts, proof of which there are no figures given. [[Voice from the room: True.]] It's a pity, because if you were to reach out to hard facts, you'd see that, for example. During the three quarters of 2018, the regional courts considered almost twice as many labour law cases as a year before. Their number increased from 45 thousand. To 87,000. There has also been a clear improvement in criminal cases. The length of proceedings before the District Courts has been reduced by almost 3 months compared to 2015. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] The reform also contributed to the more effective work of judges. Each of them has led to the completion of more cases assigned to him, the average number of cases per judge in the district courts has already increased by 5% in civil matters... [[Voice from the room: In the area.]] ...and 10% in criminal cases compared to 2016. Plus, High Sejm, we're done with pathology, which was $10,000. Almost half of them served as judges. Today, the number of judges who perform some functions, instead of ruling, has fallen by almost half a thousand. But further, we read in the proposal: Introducing a pseudo-random assignment of cases. Well, High Sejm, I would like to remind you that before the Law and Justice came into power, there was no system for drawing lots of cases in courts. [[Voice from the room: There was a phone call.]] It was all there. Either the phone calls or the assignment, as requested by the head of the department or the head of the court. Now we finally have an objective system for drawing cases, and how can we make a charge of this? [[Applause]] If you make a charge of it, yes, it is. [[Easy, easy.]] [[Don't yell at us.]] In addition, you are writing about the forced transfer of insubordinate judges to other departments. This was exactly the case in your day, and we introduced a law that limited this pathology, which is exactly the opposite of how you write it. That kind of bullshit in this proposal is on each side of the page for a few. But now let's talk about hard facts. Well, High Sejm, for two years of the Ministry of Justice's work, we've put in place more bill designs than the state for almost a decade. What effect did this have? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Changes in criminal law. Yes, common crime is falling, criminal crime is falling. [[It's like every year.]] We have a decline in the seven most important categories of crime, including fights and beatings - a decrease of 13%, armed robbery, extortion minus 16%... [[Like every year for many years.]] ...stealing minus 5%, economic crimes minus 5% , in corruption crimes also a visible decline. [[Like every year for many years.]] But that's not all, High Sejm, and the detection of crimes is increasing. Compared to 2015, when it was 54.1% Today we have 74% on the detection of criminal offences. Plus, High Seym, the feeling of security is growing - by almost 25% Poles feel safer compared to 2015. [[Applause]] 25%. [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] High Seym! High Seym! But that's not everything, of course, because these are objective data that can be measured, but here's a new law on the prosecution. Case closed indictment increased by as much as 22,000. in relation to 2015. The law enforcement rate is rising from year to year, to 68.7% this year. $2,000. The number of acquitted persons decreased. 80% increase the number of economic crime cases taken. Plus VAT, High Sejm. The number of defendants in cases brought to an end by an indictment has increased by 162% in relation to your governments. 162%. [[Applause]] In addition, the number of convictions for absolute imprisonment against your governments - 138% height. In addition, the report from the European Commission, which should be so close to you, shows that, among other things, it is. This means that the VAT gap is falling and tax collection is increasing in billions each year. [[You're talking nonsense.]] But that's not all, High Sejm, to add... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Plus, the difference between us... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Just one more second, Marshal. The difference between the system that works today and the system that you... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u321	Time's up, Minister. [[Thank you.]] Honestly, I'm not prolonging you because I'm sick of screaming. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] The Minister screams, they... [[Voice from the room: Oh!]] ...sorry, ladies and gentlemen respond by screaming, people are watching, and they can't know anything by screaming. [[Voice from the room: It's a cry of despair.]] You've been screaming for five minutes, and thank you very much. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Thank you.]] Two words of ending, easy, right? [[Voice from the room: scandal.]] [[Voice from the room: What example?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u322	High Seym! The State of the Civic Platform can yell at each other... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal...]] ...what you imagine, but in all the data that are comparable and recognized in the world, the justice system has undergone an incredible reform and in all the... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u323	Okay, thank you very much. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] Thank you very much. Mr Boris Budka, PO-KO, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u324	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! You lied this morning, you lie at noon, and you lie at noon. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: Oh, my...]] Minister Zbigniew Ziobro is the only minister in the history of which both judicial and prosecutorial proceedings have been extended. [[Applause]] A simple example. On average, the court of first instance in 2011 lasted 4.1 months, in 2017 - 5.5 months. This is a real picture of the justice system. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] Minister Patrick What is the last person to speak here. Why? Because you, instead of taking care of Polish prisons, have spent the last year at the expense of Polish taxpayers engaged in an election campaign, which fortunately for the Warsaw people you have lost to a mole. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] But I want to show you, Minister, simple data. You're bragging about the prison service? Well, look at the trade union side of the Prison Service staff: most assaults on officers on duty - 2017, most fights and beatings among prisoners - 2017. [[It's true. It's true.]] Most cases of drug possession and boosters - 2017 [[Voice from the room: That's not true.]] Most cases of abuse - 2017 [[Applause]] You're the ministry of lies and propaganda. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Whatever you guys are doing, you're gonna ruin it. You broke the IPN bill, you ruined our relationship with the European Commission, instead of the reform of the justice system, you applied the Lenin principle: staff are the most important. The face of your reforms is Mr. D.A. Peterovich. But to whom do you please? 25 million PLN, which should be used to help victims of crime, was illegally, as shown by the NIK, intended... [[Voice from the hall: This is a lie.]] ...for a secret, secret CBA fund. [[Don't lie to me.]] Why was it done? That is what Minister Ziobro has not explained until now. Millions of gold go to Fr.Rydzyk's school so she can educate and train. Who? Polish judges and prosecutors, while we have the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office, which should do so. You prefer to transfer these funds to Torun so that they can then be used for propaganda purposes. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] You guys have really won the championship. Yes, Minister, you have achieved the championship of sweeping under the rug of the scandal. [[We're not gonna beat you.]] It is no longer possible to count: the KNF scandal, the GetBack scandal, the PCK scandal, Mr Kaczyński's tape scandal. He's not even here to defend you. [[Voice from the room: I can't.]] And that's what the D.A.'s office should do. [[Applause]] But instead, you created a pathology system. The Member, the Chief, is a small party, but still the party, has the right to look into any file, in any court file, may go with them to Novgorodska or Novgorodska may come to him. Until now, you haven't explained, [[Applause]] what the national prosecutor was doing, spending a few hours at Nowogrodzka's party headquarters, what he was talking to and who he was talking to, and what kind of proceedings. [[Yeah, they did.]] You have led to a pathological situation when prosecutors, instead of taking sides with victims of crime, either these crimes die out, or, as with Mr. Rybak, who was messing with you at the Solidarna Polska Convention, bring an appeal in his favor. The Court of First Instance sentences the sentence of absolute imprisonment and the prosecutor under Mr Ziobra says: No, it is necessary to use the state machine to treat this man more gently. That's the real face of the Justice Department. [[Applause]] And this is the real face of Zbigniew Ziobra. It was your prosecutors who resolved the cases that Mrs Gasiuk-Pihowicz spoke about, allowing hate, aggression and violence to spread in public space. Where were your prosecutors when they hung the portraits of the Euro MPs on the gallows? [[Applause]] Where were you then? You didn't stand up for these people back then. And finally, what is most characteristic of you is a personal vendetta. You're using the D.A.'s office for a personal vendetta for a world-famous cardiac surgeon because you can't understand that we're all equal to the law, but we're all equal to death. And that's your biggest shame. [[Applause]] I promise from this place: no one will ever be harmed by this gentleman again, and that will happen again. [[♪ The bell ♪]] October. Thank you very much. [[Long-term applause, excitement in the room]] [[Voice from the room: In the form of corrigendum...]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[Voice from the room: My name has come up...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u325	Please, Mr Jerzy Jachnik, Kukiz Poselski Club15. [[Voice from the room: In the form of corrigendum...]] [[There's no correction.]] That must be a misunderstood statement. [[Voice from the room: But there is a misunderstood statement...]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u326	I'm gonna need you to count me off. [[Club appearances.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u327	You're welcome, sir. Proceed. [[Wake up, a bucket of cold water on your head.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u328	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ministers! Honourable Members! Well, if I were to present the position of the Kukiz club15 on the basis of the request of Mrs Kamili Gasiuk-Pihowicz, I would have to say that this is a total gibberish, Mrs Pihowicz. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] If I were to add to that the first sentence in which you spoke in this way at the committee meeting, you started under the words: 50,000. bribes... [[More culture.]] ...is a crime, insinuating that it concerns Mr Jarosław Kaczyński, so I would ask what the status of Mr Neumann or Mr Gawłowski is. Ladies and gentlemen, there are charges, indictments, [[Applause]] Here's the evidence, he's under review. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I voted against the waiver of your immunity. In that case, Counselor, counsel, how can you tell such nonsense at all? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] How can you tell such nonsense? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Unlike the applicants, it must be admitted that the Ministry of Justice was represented by the entire composition, and by the Minister, and by the national prosecutor, and by the vice-ministers, and basically took up defence. But I've got one problem with this whole thing right now. Minister Ziobro, could you answer me one question? This is about the speech of the President Jarosław Kaczyński from the so-called. tapes dated 2 August 2018, in which he says this: The tale of the state of law is a complete fairy tale. So at this point, I don't know if I should believe the president or you because I have a dilemma right now. As a parliamentary team in which Kukiz15 Members were present, former Members of the Party, former Members of the PiS, former Members of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, we have held meetings, several meetings with the victims, we have done - unlike everyone else, a survey in which we have asked citizens questions about what the justice system would like to have. From this survey, after these questions were asked, we did a study that was published in the quarterly of the National Judicial Council. Have any of you ever read what citizens expect? Probably not. And I'll tell you what the citizens expect. The citizens expect: the judges of peace, the jury, the general elections of the KRS, the general elections of the national prosecutor, the transparency of recording of prosecutors' cases and criminal cases. And I can't understand, Minister, why you've withdrawn from this idea of recording criminal cases. Introducing day-to-day recognition of cases. A judge as a crown of competition, not a 30-year-old. The emergency complaint that has been brought is a good institution, one can say nothing. It may be submitted by the Attorney General, the Minister of Justice and the Ombudsman, but they do not benefit from it. Complaints go downstairs to the district attorney's office. Citizens don't get any of this. We asked, we asked to keep it at the level of the Parliamentary Committee, so that such a request could be made. As far as free legal assistance is concerned, I will allow myself to pass on to Minister Warchoł, as one slip is being filled out, because I have a stack of these prints that are now being filled. Minister, it still hurts me that in the Polish prosecutor's office in Bielsko-Biała there is a prosecutor who killed a man when he was drunk. [[Applause]] It still hurts me that there's a man working at the White D.A.'s office who's been exterminated until today because he had the courage to have an opinion. It still hurts me, ladies and gentlemen, that you're so easy to operate on VAT crimes. I'm not talking about criminals. I'm talking about entrepreneurs who fall into this merry-go-round and don't even know they're falling into it. I was also buying on the Internet, doing business, aluminum rods, I'll tell you. I checked with the KRS and bought it. I talked at the register. The discussion was that information could be transmitted to the National Court Register. It's a warning that someone doesn't make a VAT return or anything else. The posts themselves would quickly eliminate themselves. After all, the company is unable to hire a security company, ladies and gentlemen, or an investigator. Ladies and gentlemen, in this situation, we will recommend that our Members abstain because, in 30%, I have to say, Mr Ziobro, I support you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You should have plowed the justice system. Unfortunately, then nothing was done, i.e. it was not built for Polish citizens. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u329	Thank you very much, sir. Ladies and gentlemen! He's in a lot of trouble, and you're asking for a corrigendum from the minister what, by the way, he's trying to teach the rules. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: What words do you use?]] I'd like to correct, and it's not just about the Minister, the Seym legend, that the correction is due when someone mentioned someone's name. That's not from the article at all. 184. The corrigendum concerns a misunderstood or incorrect statement made by the speaker. If this is the case, I invite Minister Jaki. One minute to corrigendum. [[The instructions were.]] [[What's the point of being mean, Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u330	Why don't you sign up for the Platform right away? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] Mr. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u331	Minister, at first you allowed yourself some malice. [[Voice from the room: You too.]] [[Voice from the room: Learn culture.]] If you could help yourself, the more you were part of the Platform, not me. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u332	You see, first you let half of my speech go screaming, and now you're taking away half the correction I deserve.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u333	You know what? Unlike you, I'm in favour of restitution. As a result, I'm bringing you back a full minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u334	Good. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! I'd expect the former Minister of Justice to at least be able to read numbers. It brings information about fights or beatings. At the time when you were Minister of Justice, who was on the stand - 982, and at the time when I was - 776. You'd think math wasn't a hard thing. [[Voice from the room: Manipulation.]] [[Voice from the room: It doesn't apply to the case.]] The system that you introduced by the Minister, the former minister who appeared from this speaker, could be called the Christmas system, namely: gifts for criminals, rod for citizens. Why presents for criminals? Because in the case of criminals, he reduced the limitation period from 10 to 5 years... [[Voice from the room: Is that a correction?]] ...so that nearly 700 criminals escaped their responsibility. What about the citizens? For ordinary citizens up to 1000% raise for counseling and counseling services. It was the Civic Platform system. Congratulations. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u335	Please, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u336	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! Minister What of this speaker today said that the motion to dismiss Minister Ziobra is pathetic. [[Voice from the room: True.]] Minister! It is pathetic today to keep the prosecution in the face of these reports, which result from the tapes by Jarosław Kaczyński. [[Applause]] It's pathetic if there was any behavior in the prison service towards Stefan W., the murderer of President Adamowicz. Pathetic were the amendments to the Supreme Court Act, repeatedly carried out at night. [[Applause]] Several attempts to assassinate the Constitutional Tribunal in this House were pathetic. Please be a little more careful with this grief. Minister Jak tried to juggle the numbers here. Minister, a brief comparison of statistics on basic types of crime, between the last year of the Platform and PSL coalition and 2017 when you ruled in the best state: crimes against life and health - an increase of 11%, crimes against freedom, freedom of conscience and religion - by 6%... [[Voice from the room: CODE works.]] ...crime against sexual freedom and morals - 48%, crimes against the honor of physical immunity - 31%, against the credibility of documents - 32%. But it's better. Offences from the Copyright and Related Rights Act - an increase of 218%, offences from the Anti-drugs Act - 20%, attention, tax offences - an increase of 41%. [[Detected!]] Minister Ziobro! In your case, you'd have to apply for an appeal every week because you're, unfortunately, a bad minister. A number of annexes could be added to the proposal submitted by colleagues from the Civic Platform. I understand that your head is concerned with other matters today, because it is the prosecution under your rule that will decide whether or not to question President Kaczyński. Today is not a good time for you to explain your crimes, but we will try to assess this gentleman's 3.5-year career as Minister and Prosecutor. When you took office, you announced a reform of the justice system. Only, Minister, if you have a broken window in your apartment or at home, you replace the glass, but you don't use a bulldozer to fix it. [[A comparison genius.]] And you - I have this impression, I do not think so just me in this House - have devastated most of the institutions of justice in this country. And we wanted, Minister, to talk - this is what the Poles demanded and demanded - about judges of peace, about speeding up proceedings and cases in courts, about extending the circle of people who would be entitled to free legal assistance, about reducing judicial fees, about increasing the number of points of free legal care, about improving the procedure for granting an attorney from the office. Today you're bragging that for one year you've introduced more billing projects than the PSL Platform for four years. Minister, tell the Poles about the details - they expect them - because court cases are too long and charges are too high. Explain yourself today, because it is not enough for Poles to talk about further draft laws that you have tabled here in this House. The Poles expect something completely different than your demolishing in most of the institutions of justice in this country. The Polish People's Party will vote in favour of your appeal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: Oh, dear.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u337	Thank you. Katarzyna Lubnauer, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u338	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! I would like to address Minister Zbigniew Ziobra directly here. You were the one who wanted to be the sheriff once, but somehow it turned out that you were rather the leader of a band that led Poland somewhere to the wild East, because we are moving far away from the West, from the standards of the European Union. You basically turned the D.A.'s office into a private farm. I must say that manually it can be controlled by blinds, or by car, but do not manually control the prosecution, which depends on the safety of Poles. Mr. Patrick Jak said Poles could feel safer. Indeed, there is a group of Poles who can feel safer or even unpunished. It belongs to those who sit on the right side of this room. [[Applause]] What do we see? We're dealing with moving cases in the D.A.'s office between the D.A.'s office and the D.A.'s office. Why? The point is to find one who makes the right decisions. We have decisions to expel those prosecutors who are not adequately available from the National Public Prosecutor's Office. We are dealing with the resolution of uncomfortable cases, and above all with the blocking and chronicity of matters related to the PiS, such as the Silver issue, but also such as the very ugly-looking PCK case from Wrocław. Let us be clear: Here we must ensure impunity for our own. Sometimes we also deal with leaking information from the investigation. And it's always that you either have to cover up some kind of PiS image crisis, or you have to let your colleagues know that they're in danger. That's how the D.A.'s office operates under your direction. This is only part of the catalogue of scrolls against the law in Poland, against the right of Poles to impartial courts, to a fair prosecutor's office, to a system such as in the European Union. What else? Another sin: assaulting an independent judiciary. You are also responsible for the assassination of the Constitutional Tribunal, the National Court of Justice, the Supreme Court and the general courts. Plus, I have to say that you're doing this really inefficiently, because the really pathetic and embarrassing thing is that you had to do the bombing on TK several times, and on the Supreme Court -- probably seven. What else? Under the cover of justice reform, we actually have a staff carousel. It is only strange that new passengers on this carousel always belong to relatives and acquaintances of the rabbit, i.e. relatives and acquaintances of Mr. Zbigniew the Collection or his deputies. In the KRS they are even ashamed to reveal those who have submitted their support. Indeed, the list could turn out to be embarrassing. [[Applause]] Even what you're bragging about, which is the random assignment system, isn't working properly, and there was a moment when you were wondering if you were gonna walk away from it. We're dealing with bullying insubordinate judges through disciplinary matters. A lot of presidents, vice-presidents of the courts are called off just because they're not properly available. Despite three years, the government has no real idea for judicial reform. What you are doing is not a reform, it is simply an attempt to take over the judiciary, sometimes very successful, for example. in the case of a constitutional court available. There are no systemic solutions, and staff shortages make justice worse and worse. Instead of reforming the courts, you've taken over them, and average Kowalski is still waiting for a sentence, only longer. More and more often, your constituents also see that the justice system not only doesn't work better, but it's also politicized. The failing Constitutional Court, the paralysis of the courts, the unbelievable National Judicial Council, the available prosecutor's office - is the result of 3.5 years of your actions. To be honest, you are also the one who introduced the principle that could constitute the first step towards polexit, which is to refer a request to the Constitutional Court to verify compliance with the Constitution of the European Treaties. But I will say one thing: nothing will remain without punishment; deeds and conversations will be written. Today you are in front of the High House, but in the future you will be in front of the Court of State. Once a mistake was made, but it won't happen again. No one's gonna hesitate next time, you're gonna stand in front of him. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u339	Please, Mr Richard Petru, the Circle of Members now! [[Later.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u340	Mr. Vice-Marshal! High Izbo! Minister Jak quotes the data, but he didn't even notice that it's enough as in your day: you don't detect crime, it's the dynamics dropping. [[Rysiek, now spring is coming.]] Couple of data. Ladies and gentlemen, during your reigns, the trial in the district court takes an average of one and a half months longer than at the beginning. It's been four months, it's 5.5 months. Economic issues. In your time, it takes a month longer to deal with business courts. In Poland the economic process lasts on average 14 months, i.e. 1 year and 2 months. What does that mean in practice? Because most of you don't know what the invoice looks like. Ladies and gentlemen, in practice, it looks like a company that, for example, wants to build a building and receive a work charge, issue an invoice, pay VAT on the invoice - where is Mr Horała? - and then it turns out that whoever pays the due doesn't want to pay it. The case goes to the courts and lasts an average of 14 months. What could happen to this company at this time? It could fall. And many Polish companies fall due to the chronicity of economic litigation. And in your day, in the days of Minister Ziobra, that time just extended. The number of unfinished business is increasing. I quarter 2017 - 2.7 A million unfinished business. The first quarter of 2018 - 3 million unsolved cases. Ladies and gentlemen, the number of complaints for the duration of processes is increasing: 2016 - 14.9 thousand, 2017 - 15.1 thousands. Do you know where the biggest increase in complaints is? In economic proceedings. The number of complaints has increased by 180% here. For four years, you actually spent nearly 20 million PLN on damages. Ladies and gentlemen, purges are being carried out among the integrityless judges, the disciplinary before the courageous judges, and the promotion of independent judges is blocked. [[Applause]] [[Michnika, I think.]] At the end of 2017, 700 judicial posts were frozen. It's like closing two large courts, Katowice and Warsaw at the same time. You've blocked 700 jobs, you've got no one to work with. People don't want to work with you. Finally, what is the real change in justice? In Leninowski: the exchange of personnel, as in the days of Mr. Prosecutor Peterowicz. Identical. Minister Ziobro was 130 presidents and vice-presidents in two years. What you can boast about are disciplinary women who are already threatening 11 judges. The SKOK scandal. Ladies and gentlemen, you are co-responsible for this. Instead of explaining the SKOK scandal, you're stopping former KNF officials who have detected this incident. Among the prisoners who were arrested under the pseudo-flying device was among others. Wojciech Kwaśniak, a hero who was brutally beaten by the founders of Wołomin SkOK in 2014. What was the reaction of Minister Ziobra to this incident? Let me quote: perhaps Wojciech Kwaśniak was attacked because the Financial Supervision Authority has been seducing criminals for years. And you want to defend a person who has this kind of performance? Ladies and gentlemen, those who have beaten are at large, those who have been beaten are being detained. Ladies and gentlemen, another issue: KNF. If it hadn't been for the wiretap, the former head of the KNF, Mr. Chrzanowski, who was making corrupt proposals, would still have been unpunished. Two weeks the D.A.'s office was wondering if we could stop him and interrogate him, and Mr. Wojciech Kwaśniak was stopped overnight by surprise. [[Voice from the room: After how many years?]] Mr Ziobra's next achievements are redemptions in cases that could end in tragedy at any time. Under your rule, the prosecution sees nothing wrong with promoting racist symbols, in calling for hatred, physical acts of aggression against the manifestors, in hanging images of Euro MPs on the gallows, in publishing political acts of self-government deaths by the All-Polish Youth, there is nothing wrong with burning puppets, for example. with my likeness. [[Joy in the Chamber]] This is your behavior. In all these cases, there are 30 of them, prosecutors either refused to initiate proceedings or the proceedings died. [[You should burn yourself out of shame.]] Ladies and gentlemen, and the famous issue of starting a procedure for leaving the European Union, the question of the compatibility of the Treaty of Lisbon with the Polish Constitution. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Genius.]] High Izbo! Minister Ziobro did a bad service to the Republic of Poland. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Now!]] [[Voice from the hall: To Madeira!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u341	Thank you. Mr Jacek Wilk, Circle of Members of Freedom and Effectiveness.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u342	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have bad news for the applicants. This proposal will not work, not because I like the Minister very much, on the contrary, but because it will not change anything systematically. If the car is broken, the driver's change will do nothing, and even maybe the driver will get worse and the car will be even less efficient. Ladies and gentlemen! Let's think for a second about where the whole problem came from. The problem came from combining the functions of the Attorney General and the Minister of Justice. The justification was more or less that the prosecution did not work efficiently enough that there was no motivation to act, that too many crimes, that cases are being conducted too long, or are not being conducted at all, so we need a whip in the form of a policy that will stand on it and, as we need to chase, use a whip, rush, etc. This is wrong thinking, because it always leads to suspicion - even if it is not in reality, it is always reasonable to suspect - that in political matters the head of the prosecutor's office, who is a politician, can behave politically, that is, use its political power and speed things up and slow others down. So at the beginning of all this, we have a system error, ladies and gentlemen. There are, of course, solutions that can be applied to ensure that the prosecution is efficient, efficient and, on the one hand, politically independent. Such a solution may consist, for example. in order to make a prosecutor a profession of public trust, independent, state officer independent of no one, for example. a notary or a bailiff, while making the remuneration of such a prosecutor dependent on the end result of his work, i.e. conviction, possibly the amount of the sentence. It is about linking factors such as conviction, bringing to an end the proceedings and the amount of the judgment, with remuneration. Then we'll give the prosecutors a strong enough incentive to run cases so they'll be happy to lead them, lead to the end, and lead quickly. At the same time, the public trust profession and independent profession will operate independently of the policy. I am talking about this because it is possible to achieve this goal without mixing politics with the prosecution. This is the way we should go. Unfortunately, instead of carrying out such a reform, these functions were combined, as I said before, and now we have a curial situation: the Minister of Justice is on the one hand the Minister of Justice, on the other hand the Head of the Public Prosecutor's Office, with the third member of the Government, and with the fourth Member. So it combines four functions in one person. When four different offices were joined in Rome, the emperor's office was created and it can be said that the superminister of justice, the prosecutor general, the Member and the minister in the Polish system are such a person. This, of course, combines the role of judicial supervision, which in turn can always cause problems due to the fact that these courts may also be influenced by politics. It is a pathological system and cannot be changed by replacing one person to another. Maybe it's even worse. What then? Ladies and gentlemen, let us rather talk about system solutions, how to change these functions, how to reform all of this. Ladies and gentlemen! Circle of Freedom and Effective will vote in favour, but not because we think it will change something in this system, just because Minister Ziobro is a very poor minister. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u343	Thank you. Mr Robert Majka, not associated.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u344	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, With regard to Minister Ziobra and the vote of distrust here, [[♪ The bell ♪]] In my opinion... I don't understand. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u345	Mr President, you have previously taken advantage of your time for this meeting. I'm so sorry. [[Voice from the room: Thank you very much.]] The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the President of the Council of Ministers of Mr Mateusz Morawiecki. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u346	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have another session of the Sejm and there's another motion to dismiss the Minister. [[Voice from the Chamber: They still want to escape to the European Union.]] This is probably the only noticeable activity of the shadow office, the opposition. [[Applause]] But I'm going to start out a little out of the ordinary, because I'm going to start with the 2004 Election Gazeta. A very well-known figure, Prof. Rzepliński, spoke in this Gazeta Wyborcza in 2004. What didn't he say there? Well, he said that the courts did not fulfil their role and that they should be very deeply reformed. He talked about the privileges of the judges he loves to enjoy, but when it comes to speeding things up, you often forget what a privilege it is. The fact that there are too many functional judges and that there are not enough judges to judge. I would like to quote a very interesting argument by quoting: The National Judicial Council should cease to be a kind of national trade union that preserves interests... [[Applause]] That's your prof. We're applauding Rzepliński now, but I think we have to. [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...preservating the interests of the Polish judiciary. Yeah, well, I'm just gonna clap. [[Applause]] It is worth reaching for this material, because for unknown reasons later the professor changed the dish by 180 degrees, although the situation in Polish judiciary, at least until 2015, did not change much. In addition, in the case of the National Council of Courts, I would also like to quote the document of the Civic Platform of 2007, a dozen years ago, referring to a deep reconstruction of the state. You have requested that as many as 22 of the 25 members of the KRS be elected by the Sejm. That was your request. Just so we're clear, I, ladies and gentlemen, don't remind you of that, I'm just reminding you of that. [[Applause]] My reflection, which is largely due to this reflection by Professor Rzepliński 15 years ago, is that if the elites of the Polish judiciary would spend at least as much time as they devote to defending their privileges, we would today have the best functioning justice system in the world. [[Applause]] Life in communist times and communist activities have made me aware of cases of violations of law, and therefore I did not understand much how in previous years it was possible to twist as it was said in the common language, such as matters of reprivatization in Warsaw. I'm talking about the Warsaw tenements, about how the gambling scandal was canceled, or finally about the Amber Gold affair... [[Voice from the room: What are you saying?]] ...in which the charges were only filed after 3 years. Europe's own record. [[Applause]] [[A voice from the court: Did the court sentence you for lying?]] For the same reasons, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to mention one systemic issue here, because this is a discussion in which many of you were referring to systemic changes. Because our western neighbour, in the German Democratic Republic in 1990, 1991, began to judge judges and prosecutors. Last year... How many judges and prosecutors were left at that time? [[Voice in the O.R.: Zero.]] Well, about 30%, and in 1995 only 20%. of those ruling in communist times. How many judges and prosecutors are left in our jurisdiction... The prosecutors who did their duty... 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: How many are now ruling?]] [[Piotrovich, ask him.]] Everyone, ladies and gentlemen. No verification of the judges has been carried out. This, of course, is the first cause of the evil that happened in those years. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: How dare you tell the truth?]] [[How many years can you say that?]] But now I would like to move on to something that is less systemic reflection, and to a large extent it is the merit of Minister Ziobra in fixing the system from the point of view of the citizen. Well, you remember such a very common practice, unfortunately, so it must be said, like taking children away from their parents because of their poverty. Remember, ladies and gentlemen? You remember. It is because of the changes introduced by Minister Ziobra in his law that such behaviour is impossible today. Today, through our social policy, we have eliminated extreme poverty to a great extent, certainly not to zero yet, but we are trying. We have eliminated to some extent, a significant degree of poverty through the 500+ programme. Today, many families have a much greater ability to function normally. And this problem that occurred earlier, from two sides we addressed accordingly. [[There's nothing left to defend, just 500+. Don't embarrass yourself.]] And notice this important social issue... [[They're disturbing me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u347	Excuse me, Prime Minister. Prime Minister, excuse me, one second. I ask the PO-KO club to stop screaming. And Mrs Radziszewska. [[You might want to bring the Prime Minister to the point. We're not talking about 500+.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u348	Thank you very much. Because a good country, High Izbo, is a country with a heart, a country with a social sensitivity. But let's move on, lean on other changes like getting alimony back into the maintenance fund. It increased by as much as 100%. Also thanks to Minister Ziobra's actions. These are the specifics you didn't mention, which you didn't mention. In my opinion, it is extremely important for Poles. Here's another thing. You were talking about the prison system. Let's think again about what the Poles have suffered so far. To put it bluntly, the fact that those who have committed and are in prison live at the expense of taxpayers. Thanks to Minister Jakie and Minister Ziobra today about 40,000. The prisoners are working. It's also a social benefit, a social benefit. [[Applause]] About half of all prisoners are working. Road pirates. By tightening the penalties, road pirates, people who eat a lot of alcohol in their cars today are more afraid of it than before, and we also have evidence of it in the statistics. This is from a social point of view, the necessary social change, a very good change, a modification that has been made thanks to Mr Ziobra. [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] The abuse of bailiffs has finally been cut short, and today they can no longer do so - let's face it, as it has been sometimes - inhumanely behaved towards the citizens, taunting all standards of decency. I'll ask. Do you really question, ladies and gentlemen, all these fundamental social changes? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] After all, they are a great benefit to the vast multitudes of our society. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] I can't believe you're questioning this. The least you can be ashamed of is that you didn't do it yourself before. [[Applause]] But today it doesn't seem to have happened during this debate. I'll remind you of one thing, which is also an individual, and a system one at the same time. The matter of Mr. Tomasz Command. A young man wrongly sentenced to life. [[Voice from the hall: Lech Kaczyński.]] 18 long years in prison. Do you remember from the press reports that nine years earlier, the Wrocław prosecutor... [[Voice from the hall: Lech Kaczyński.]] ...if I remember correctly, the prosecutor discovered these irregularities and reported them back then. [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] But unfortunately, it was not accepted. Only this systemic error, by combining these functions, has been corrected by Minister Ziobra's actions. And we know from Mr. Tomasz Command's example how important it was to clean up this prosecutor's mess. Surely such cases will be less frequent in this situation. But, ladies and gentlemen, now it's a case where the hearts of the applicants will probably be killed harder - the judges - that applies to the judges. I appeal to the honourable opposition: Do not insult the judges by saying that they are politically subordinate today. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: We stand up for them.]] And don't threaten the representatives of the third power, saying, "We'll remember your names and write them down." These are the words of one of your leading politicians. Because this is the best example of the unacceptable interference of the political world in justice decisions. [[Applause]] You'd like to yell, "Constitution," or "Save," Europo, right? We don't have friendly judges, we don't have hot judges, we don't make special castes. [[Ha, ha, ha. Really?]] We want justice as it should be in any normal European country. Dear fellow countrymen, we strive for the same justice system as in France... [[The voice from the room: What a joke.]] ...what he's like in Germany, in every normal country. And in addition - I often talk about the rule of law in the European Commission, in the past a little bit more often, recently less often - we are very much praised for the changes made by Minister Ziobro... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: In the European Commission? And the complaint?]] ...for the random distribution of court cases which makes it impossible for such cases, such criminal cases as the case of Judge Milewski... [[What a joke you are, Prime Minister.]] ...who was caught red-handed in that case at the time. He was ready to address a very important matter, and I'll remind you that this was about Amber Gold, to a decent judge. The second point concerns a systemic change, which is very beneficial, and therefore I ask for the reflection of the Members of the opposition who are declaring a vote in favour of the Minister's appeal. This fundamental issue was mentioned today. The ban on moving courts between different chambers in courts was a veiled instrument of pressure from functional judges, presidents. Ask one of the judges if it wasn't. That's what happened, that's the truth. Minister Ziobro abolished this opportunity by increasing the independence of the judge, the authentic, the profound increase of independence also from functional judges, presidents and vice-presidents. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! I still can't forget the case of the two Supreme Court Judges: the Supreme Court Judge and the Supreme Administrative Court Judge who agreed on who was to lead the case. Did the judge's community, or the state, the opposition, then in power, stigmatize it then? Have you started a system reform of the courts? No. Our reform, this systemic one, is so important because it leads to the reduction of pathology, to increased efficiency - I will remind you that we have one of the most expensive justice systems in the European Union - and at the same time to increase the transparency and independence of judges. [[Voice from the room: No one believes it.]] High Izbo! Finally, I would like to say that the Polish state has the right, competence and even the obligation to reform the justice system. Similarly, such competence is the right of the Dutch, French State. I would like to quote the words - now I think some hearts will kill more - about the prosecutor's office: to be clear, we need a criminal strategy defined by the executive authority, responsible before the parliament and applied by the prosecutor's office. Independence separated from democratic legitimacy can be very problematic. Whose words are those? Emmanuel Macron, President of France. [[Applause]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, this concerns the deep reform of the justice system that began there. Poland was a country where the fear of criminals against justice was less than the fear of ordinary people against criminals. This situation has been reversed in our governments. Poles are no longer afraid. Security, it was quoted here today, the sense of security is growing. Changing justice for the better for many millions of citizens is nothing wrong, it is our duty. It would be indecent not to change it. I therefore call for a reasonable continuation of this debate, this vote. I appeal for the vote of Minister Ziobra. This is really the deepest system reform of justice for 30 years, much needed. Citizens want a deep reform of the justice system and we are carrying it out. [[Applause]] Thank you very much for your efforts, Minister. I believe that together, together, we will bring reform to a successful end. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u349	Thank you, Prime Minister. Please take the floor of the Minister of Justice, Mr Zbigniew Ziebra.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u350	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! When I heard that you were asking for a vote of distrust against the Minister of Justice, and I had the honour to hold this office, I thought I could expect a serious debate today, that I would hear serious arguments. Unfortunately, this naivety, which Cymanski's colleague pointed out here, made known about herself because it was as usual: a pile of half-truths, lies, lies, and manipulations, frowned upon by irritation and hidden jealousy, a lot of jealousy, because we succeeded in what you failed. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: But they didn't even try.]] Before I show it and prove it, because a good change can be measured with objective data, if, of course, you do not turn your tail around and try to show it in a curved mirror, but I will refer to the arguments that broke through here, which appeared in the foreground, and also the applicant. I have this impression, I must tell you that the Civic Coalition, which is forming, is really looking for a leader. I think she found him. This leader is neither Mr Grzegorz Schetyn nor Mr Richard Petru, who buried his chances in Madeira. This leader seems to be Roman Giertych. This is a man who seems to be connecting you, and certainly directing you. He seems to be an architect, a writer, and a director of your actions. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Shame!]] But consider whether it is worthwhile to let yourself be led by the nose in this way. The facts that I will mention here, which the honourable Member referred to, so I must do, will give you, I hope, to think. Well, in his public statements, Mr. Roman Giertych, whom you listen so carefully and then repeat everything he says publicly, he gives the impression that the prosecution doesn't want to proceed in connection with his client's notification... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Is there an investigation? There's no investigation.]] ...that the D.A.'s office is slowing down, causing obstruction that he doesn't have time to conduct a trial. And what do these facts look like? Well, they look like this. On 28 January 2019 a notice was made of the suspicion that the patrons had committed a crime on behalf of the client, and already on 1 February, the referee appointed to the case tried to contact him by telephone and asked the prosecution of the witness to appear as soon as possible so that he could be heard under the circumstances raised in the notice. And what did she hear? That the next day the victim will appear to be at the disposal of the prosecution for the next few days? No. That's not what she heard. She heard that it was only February 11th that it was possible to carry out an interrogation, and that it was supposed to be so urgent, so quickly, so much so that some people were changing their legs to conduct this procedure. Who, then, is sowing obstruction and misleading public opinion? So what? During this hearing, which lasted several hours, the prosecutor found out at the end that it was not possible, even though she asked and offered to continue the hearing the next day, only it would be possible to do so in two days. After 2 days, it was exactly 13 February, at the very beginning the witness emphasized that he could not stay in the prosecutor's office for long, because personal reasons would not allow him to do so and he had to limit his time only to a few hours of interrogation, which in the prosecutor's office was therefore conducted in a very short period of time. It was then determined that the prosecutor with Mr Giertych's proxy would be able to determine as soon as possible the date for the re-examination. So? And the D.A. called your attorney from February 16 to 19 and couldn't reach you. It was not the proxy who could call, asking for an audition, but it was exactly the opposite of what the Poles seem to hear for your cause, because you repeat what you hear from Giertych. It was exactly the opposite. [[Applause]] And it's the other way around. Since it was impossible to reach you, the prosecutor sent a notification to the office on February 21, 22, and then found out that it was not possible because the witness could turn himself in, but when? A witness who's supposed to be in such a hurry complains so much that the D.A.'s office doesn't want to do anything about it? February 28th or March 1st. Who's in a hurry and who's in a hurry? Are these facts Whatever they're telling you? Who here plays theater, the game, and who is the writer of a certain epic, in which you also participate, by being fooled by a man who has a lot of anger in him, I do not want to say: political bile, because he was outside of politics and dreamed that he would play the role of emperor? The facts are that so far the prosecution has not received the originals of the recordings which are necessary in any such proceedings, has not received a copy in the notice, has not received a copy at the first hearing, only after the request for a further hearing has been submitted an electronic record, of which it is unknown whether it is a record of all conversations or just some part. Is this the way someone acts who wants to explain the truth, to conduct a quick investigation, or someone who intentionally causes obstruction, to later play this theater on TV and drag you in, to give you arguments about it? I think that when you're listening to Mr. Roman Giertych and following him you're repeating these false accusations at the prosecution's office, there's certainly a lot of advice and maybe he's jumping in front of the TV, just like he used to do in front of the Sejm... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] ...on fire and joy, as it leads you by the nose. A young man would probably say, using a youthful language, that he's fucking with you. Don't let Giertych fool you. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Do you sense the limit that this is already embarrassing?]] With regard to the allegations that Roman Giertych is saying that you are saying that there is something suspicious about the fact that the leader of the government camp appears at the Ministry of Justice or any other ministry, I would like to tell you that unlike you, we do not have a deficit leader because we have a true leader. We have a political camp leader who does not devote his time, does not spend his free time on wine and other deli in various pubs in Warsaw... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] ...but he devotes his time, his service to the affairs of the state. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u351	Please don't yell.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u352	Jarosław Kaczyński was at the Ministry of Justice when we decided on the Constitutional Court, because it was the Ministry of Justice that conducted the main battle from the substantive point of view, in any case participated in it. [[Family's the most important thing.]] Jarosław Kaczyński was at the Ministry of Justice when we decided on the main assumptions related to judicial reform. Jarosław Kaczyński was also in the Ministry of Justice when we decided on regulations related to hitting the VAT mafia. It was because in our camp, which is also diverse, there were also views and opinions, which sometimes needed discussion, needed a decision and made a decision, and very well that we have such a leader. It was also three weeks earlier, before the paparazzi took a picture and made a big sensation out of it, because we were talking at the Ministry of Justice at the same table, drinking the same tea, about the changes in the criminal codifications that are being prepared, about the changes in the Code of Criminal Procedure, which is now being adopted by the government, about the changes in material criminal law, because there is also a discussion in our camp, whether to take over it entirely as proposed by the Ministry of Justice... Everyone knows my view that I would like radical changes in terms of tightening criminal policy, but I also have to respect as a politician the fact that we are a coalition that there are different rations and different sensitivities in my environment and that not everyone is in favour of such far-reaching changes in criminal law. And that's what talking to the political leader is for. And the appropriate Ministry is the place to discuss specific matters of substance. Yes, we meet on political matters in Nowogrodzka very often, which is often shown by the cameras of friendly stations. But what's wrong with that? It's normal political work. But there is also time for substantive work, and do not really compromise yourself by making it a charge. [[Applause]] Jarosław Kaczyński... [[So when will Kaczynski be interrogated? When will he be interrogated?]] ...he was a guest at the Ministry of Justice when he came to make important decisions, and he will probably be in the future when we decide on subsequent laws, such as. We have recently settled the issue of the law on usury, a very important law related to the harm that is happening to Poles, which has not been noticed at all by you. We have prepared an act that, I am convinced, will civilize this situation. The speech of hatred - another element that was raised by the state. I could talk a lot about it here, but time is limited, so let me say this. Do you remember the vice-president of the parliamentary club who said: shoot and disembowel Jarosław Kaczyński? Do you remember what his club colors were, what party he belonged to when he said that? And do you remember that a few months after this statement, a former member of the Civic Platform, went to Łódź and murdered, shot a member and activist of Law and Justice in the replacement of Jarosław Kaczyński? Do you know that in his explanations the same Cyba said that his role model and point of reference in politics is Janusz Palikot? How many examples can you give? [[Voice from the room: But what does this have to do with your term?]] There is a paradox that the sowers of hatred want to be sheep and preachers of peace. Well, she spoke about the presidents of the cities on which the so-called presidents appeared. political sentences, political death sentences. Certainly something worthy of condemnation and the farthest criticism. But in order to apply criminal law, it is necessary to specify in advance the standards which have been violated, and the court, the independent court which you always respect, the District Court in Wrocław, stated that there is no criminal offence in this case that there are no exhausted marks of the prohibited act. Not so many prosecutors. Court! Then what is it? [[Applause]] Do you respect the judgment of the indisputable courts? And do you know that most of these presidents hosted the art of the curse, which not only verbally offends religious feelings in which the actress simulates sex with the cross or the depravity of the pope's character, but finally presents an issue that is actually approved of the murder of Jarosław Kaczyński? Which one of these presidents opposed it? Tell me. [[Applause]] Which one of you filed a report to the D.A.'s office on this case? Calling for homicide. Who? Double standards. Hypocritical. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] The good change can be measured by the amount of 30 billion that contributed to the state budget in 2017 and by the amount of 50 billion that contributed to the state budget in 2018. It didn't come from anything. This is the result of the fact that we decided to wage a war with the VAT mob. [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] What you didn't do, we did. [[Applause]] If you'll allow me, knowing your tendency to juggle data, manipulate it, I've asked for data that anyone can see. [[Applause]] [[Yeah, you got two minutes left.]] [[Minister of Justice Attorney General Zbigniew Ziobro illustrates his appearance displayed on the board]] These are the figures that show that during your reign and the first year of our governments, VAT was not collected. I mean, it was downloaded, but often by the VAT mafia, which led it out of the state budget, when it was paid by the taxpayer. And we have just prepared changes in the law that have allowed this situation to change. We've armed them with very high criminal sanctions, up to 25 years of imprisonment. We reorganized the D.A.'s office to create departments... [[For two years, you've been moving in.]] ...to fight against economic crime, which was overseeing all the services. And these rules were adopted - I would ask for a second tranche - with your opposition in February 2017. Look what happened then - a double VAT flow that would go to criminals, thanks to these regulations. And I have here in 2013 your colleague Mr. Grass's conversations with another colleague who said that there is no legal structure that could be created to help, to let the VAT mob crash. Well, we have shown that you can, only you have to want that the state is not theoretical, but can practically act. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] And because of that... [[Don't lie, don't lie, don't lie.]] ...through the joint effort of the prosecutor's office, the Ministry of Finance, all of us, our entire government, we have managed to make it 500+, we have managed to lead to the OECD pointing to Poland as a country that has made enormous progress in terms of support for children. The data that was once shown in your administration should cause redness of your faces. And today we can be proud of Poland for this reason. This is possible because we started a real fight with the VAT mob. But a good change can also be measured with other data. The amount of PLN 1.5 billion collected from bandits can be measured. Thanks to the expanded confiscation, which has been adopted, 1.5 billion zlotys go to the state budget. And do you know how much that was in your day? 300 million. Compare: 300 million to 1.5 billion. What does that mean for bandits? We take away their luxury cars, their yachts, their homes, they can't carry on criminal activities later. And this is an effective country that practically works. [[Applause]] The measure of good change is also the thousands of children who received for the first time in Poland [[♪ The bell ♪]] Alimony. About 100% the number of children receiving child support in Poland has increased after the changes we have made. [[Applause]] The measure of good change is the data on the work of the D.A.'s office that you criticize and manipulate. Compare: Number of VAT proceedings conducted in your time - 352 proceedings, now - 1000 proceedings. The number of prosecutions completed in your time - 138, now - 307. The number of defendants involved in VAT mafia cases in your time - 300 people, now - more than 1000. Do you see the difference? [[Applause]] There's a difference. The value of secured property - I already told you what this difference is. I can give you more data, unfortunately time doesn't allow it. Ladies and gentlemen! We're turning the justice system, even though you're throwing sand in our laps. [[Joy in the Chamber]] We're making a big change, including when it comes to bailiffs. When it comes to children, we have made it impossible for us to pick up children because of poverty. We have caused the Polish state to take care of children abroad. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Time.]] But what is most important, ladies and gentlemen, with the very many changes that we have presented and about which we had the opportunity to speak at the Justice Committee meeting... [[Voice from the room: Time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u353	Minister, one second. State of the PO-KO club, please stop yelling: time. I have the right to extend the speaking time, if I say so, and to extend it. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u354	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! Well, you want a debate. I understand I've come to serve your information, so let me give you this information, or at least a few more facts. [[Voice from the room: We know everything, only success.]] When it comes to children, a good change also shows how serious we are about our commitments. Well, we have sharpened our punishments for the most serious paedophile acts. We've put in a clear record of pedophiles. Here's a printout from the press that shows that the next day after the paedophile registry became public, parents caught a paedophile who worked with their kids in kindergarten. No more picking up kids for poverty, as I mentioned. Protection of Polish children abroad thanks to the changes introduced in the context of the Hague Convention. Finally: we have created special courts that care about Polish children in such cases, pass sentences within a period of up to a month, so that these children are not in cross-border disputes given rashly to parents outside Poland, as has been the case so far. [[Voice from the room: There is no time.]] [[Voice from the room: How long is this extension?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Certainly, the justice system should unite rather than divide. It should be over the political divide. Especially here, in this House, where everyone who is responsible for the creation of law in Poland sits. But unfortunately, that's not what's happening. This is not because for eight years of your government you have done nothing to ensure that courts and prosecutors serve all Poles, not just those who have thick wallets and who can afford the best lawyers. [[Applause]] You did nothing to hit the VAT mafia and give Polish children a chance. You didn't do anything to take away property from criminals. Poland under your rule as the only country in the European Union did not accept confiscation of the property benefit. That tells me a lot about you guys, about your intentions. You didn't do anything to save the people the housekeepers were throwing on the pavement. The cases were regularly cancelled. [[Applause]] [[Prime Minister Gowin hasn't done anything and he's still in charge. He was running away. He's gone.]] And we're doing this, we're going to be consistent in this, and we're going to reform the justice system. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u355	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote in the voting block. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 22 min. 35 hrs. 22 min 42]] I'm reopening the session. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the draft law on the accessibility of digital websites and mobile applications of public entities, print No 3216. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. I propose that in the discussion on this item, the Sejm listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Industrial Property Law, print No 3222. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95f of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5a Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, there were objections to the proposal to supplement the agenda with points: - Report from the Committee on Science and Youth Education and the Committee on Economics and Development on the Parliamentary draft law on the Research Network Łukasiewicz, prints 3114 and 3227, - Report of the Committee on Culture and Communications on the draft law amending the Act on subscription fees, prints 3123 and 3223. These are, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on I will put these items to the vote in turn to complete the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of The adoption of the proposal to supplement the agenda will mean that the Sejm has agreed to the application of the Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. We proceed to the vote on the committee's report on the draft law on the Łukasiewicz Research Network. Who among you is in favour of completing the agenda by this point, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. For -231, against -195, holding off on 2. The Sejm accepted the offer. We proceed to the vote on the committee's report on the draft law on subscription fees. Who among you is in favour of completing the agenda by this point, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. For - 231, against - 199, holding down 3. The Sejm accepted the offer. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in discussions on the agenda items added. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We return to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Request for a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Justice, Zbigniew Ziobra. Let me remind you that according to the article. Point (c) of paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland Sejm expresses the vote of distrust by a majority of the statutory number of Members. The Commission, let me remind you, has taken a negative view of the proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the motion to express a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Justice, Zbigniew Ziebrara, would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The statutory majority is 231. 177 voted against - 233, with 23. In the absence of the required majority of votes, I state that the Sejm has rejected the motion to express a vote of distrust to the Minister of Justice, Mr Zbigniew Ziobra. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] We return to the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Inland Navigation. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft law contained in print report 3124. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print No 3124, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. For - 420, against - 7, 2 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the IWT Act, the Fish Market Organisation Act and the Maritime Fisheries Act. We are returning to the examination of item 24 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the law on support for rural development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 to 2020 and some other laws. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this proposal to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for consideration. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of Draft Print Law 3202, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. For - 160, against - 274, no one stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. I propose that the Sejm be based on the article. 39 (1) (a) 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm have set a time limit for the submission of the report to be discussed at the current sitting of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We return to the consideration of item 25 of the agenda: First reading of the Parliamentary draft law amending the excise duty refund Act contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production. In the discussion, a request was made to proceed immediately to the second reading of the bill, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this proposal to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for consideration. The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, the Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] Time is one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u356	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if you know this, but we're correcting your excise duty from three months ago. Secondly, today, farmers from the municipalities in which they have to apply for excise duties come home empty-handed because they cannot submit them. Thirdly, with the amendment of this law, we must go back three months. Fourthly, we're saving your honor, Prime Minister, because this is bullshit. He's going in a positive direction, and we're going to vote in favour, but this is a bullshit from three months ago. Imagine what it would be like in this House if we voted differently every three months on every draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u357	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of accepting the request to immediately proceed to second reading of the print project 3206, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. For - 199, against - 236, with a hold of 2. I state that the Sejm rejected the proposal and therefore referred it to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for consideration. I propose, on the basis of an article. 39 (1) (a) 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm for committees to submit a report within a time limit allowing it to be discussed at this sitting. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We would like to refer to item 26 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government draft law amending the Real Estate Management Act. Third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 3127. The question is asked by Małgorzata Chmiel, Club Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u358	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! In general, the draft law aims to enforce the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. This is right, but we have doubts about what will happen to those who have been expropriated before the 20-year period you are assuming. This is the maximum period when you can apply for a return of your property expropriated to public purposes, plus these 3 years. What if someone was expropriated e.g. 24 years ago or 25 years ago? Don't these people have the right to apply for a refund of their property? At the moment, in the light of the current law, they have such opportunities. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo! That's a good question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u359	Minister Artur Soboń, Deputy Minister for Investment and Development. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u360	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have a three-year transition period. Within these 3 years you can make your claim. [[And then?]] This is the period in which we close it, and we introduce the term of the past - 20 years. That is what the honourable Member was talking about. [[And after 3 years?]] So today they're three years old. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u361	Thank you. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the draft print law 3127 in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. For -430, against -3, holding down 3. The Sejm passed a law amending the Real Estate Management Act. We return to the examination of item 27 of the agenda: Information of the Government of the Republic of Poland on the activities undertaken in 2017 for the implementation of the resolution of the Polish Sejm of 1 August 1997. The Charter of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities together with the position of the Committee on Social Policy and the Family. In the discussion, a request was made to reject the information contained in print No 2807. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm has accepted the information. I would remind you that the committee requests that the information contained in print No 2807 be accepted. The question is asked by Monika Rosa, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u362	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Modern will vote in favour of a motion to reject government information. We believe that the Charter of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in Poland is being violated. You've had three years to work hard. Hence my questions: Why did we not work in the Sejm on your initiative on the law on the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal which requires equalisation of benefits for carers of adults with benefits for carers of children with disabilities? Why didn't you work here in the Sejm in 3 years to harmonise the system of disability ruling? Why didn't you work here in the Sejm in 3 years to liquidate the institution of incapacity for assistance and legal guardian? These are three very important elements that you did not want to work on. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u363	We're voting. Who of you is in favour of accepting the request for rejection of print information 2807, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. For - 175, against - 237, stopped 24. The Sejm rejected the application and therefore took note of the information. We return to the examination of item 28 of the agenda: The report presented by the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the National Programme against Violence in the Family for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2015 together with the position of the Committee on Social Policy and the Family. In the discussion, a request was made to reject the print report No 937. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm has taken note of the report. I would remind you that the committee requests the adoption of print report 937. The question is asked by Joanna Schmidt, near Now!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u364	Mr. Marshal! Minister Rafalska! Answer honestly: Do you think you did your best to protect the victims of domestic violence? Will your long-term actions really lead to a change of consciousness in society and consequently permanently reduce domestic violence? Please answer the next question only to yourself. Do you see the correlation between women's professional activities, their financial independence and the force behind their leaving home, where there is violence? Minister Ziobro! The question is for you. Why didn't you put in a quick intervention and separate the perpetrators and victims when they lived together? Why has the definition of crime not been extended to economic violence? Minister Zalewska! Is the programme change promoted by the curators an education that will educate young people tolerant, open, assertive, recognising equality? Reducing family violence is a long process, a system of related actions [[♪ The bell ♪]] different ministries over party divisions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u365	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the request for rejection of print report 937, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. For - 21, against - 405, with a hold of 8. The Sejm rejected the proposal and therefore took note of the report. We would like to refer to item 29 of the agenda: The report presented by the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the National Programme against Violence in the Family for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2016 together with the position of the Committee on Social Policy and the Family. A request for rejection of the 1915 printing report was made in the discussion. Rejection of this proposal, I remind you, will mean that the Sejm has taken note of the report. I would remind you that the committee requests the adoption of the 1915 print report. The question is asked by Monika Rosa, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u366	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Prime Minister Morawiecki, in your exposé you said that you would counter domestic violence and fight every symptom of it. Hence my question: What actions have you really taken to combat this violence in your family, domestic violence? Because domestic violence has sex, it's real, it's experienced by 20.30% of women, it's a question of the grey zone, because often victims of violence don't report it to the police, they don't report it to the prosecutor's office, they don't report it to social assistance. Instead of a real amendment, we had a legal buffer, from which you fortunately withdrew. Instead of working really hard with NGOs, we had Beata Szydło's words about the lack of a resolution in Zakopane hitting the municipal programme against domestic violence. Instead of implementing the Act on Economic Violence, we have some apparent actions in an apparent report that actually shows a lack of real action by the government. Prime Minister, what happened? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u367	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the request to reject the 1915 print report, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. Za - 170, against - 258, abstained - 7. The Sejm rejected the proposal, i.e. the report was accepted. We would like to refer to item 30 of the agenda: The report presented by the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the National Programme against Violence in the Family for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2017 together with the position of the Committee on Social Policy and the Family. Also in this case, a request for rejection has been made. It's about print number 2941. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm has taken note of the report. I would remind you that the committee in this case also requests the adoption of the report on this printing. Let me remind you, it's a 2941 print. The question is asked by Michał Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u368	High Izbo! Prime Minister! This is the moment, and this is the discussion of violence, so that you come here and inform us, and explain yourself to the High House, as it was possible that in your government, the Ministry of Family, Social Policy and Labour, there was a proposal to consider that a one-time beating is not domestic violence. [[Applause]] This is the disgrace of this government and the resignation of the Deputy Minister responsible for this does not solve the matter. [[Don't scream.]] Do you realize that domestic violence is a serious problem in our country? Do you realize they're not just mothers, children, but also older people? There are more and more cases of domestic violence, she should be combated. Every single case should be your concern. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u369	We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the request for rejection of print report 2941 please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. For - 171, against - 260, abstained - 6. The Sejm rejected the proposal and therefore adopted the report. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law on Industrial Property Law (prints 3166 and 3222). I ask Mr Jarosław Gonciusz to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u370	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Committee on Economics and Development after considering the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Industrial Property Law, print No 3166 at its meeting on 19 February this year. calls on the High Sejm to approve amendments 1 to 16 as amended, Amendment 17. - to reject it. One more point: Amendments 3, 5 and 7 to 11 and 14 can be voted together. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u371	Thank you, sir. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. We will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate's amendments. Amendments 1 to 14. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 containing amendments to the Industrial Property Law. In Amendment 1, the Senate proposes amendments to Article. Article 129 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 and Article 4 The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the first amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. In - 4, against - 428, abstained - 2. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment, the Senate proposes amendments to Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 2nd amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. For - no one, against - 433, 2 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendments 3, 5, 7 to 11 and 14. The Senate proposes changes of an editorial and legislative nature. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against Amendments 3, 5, 7 to 11 and 14 please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. Nobody voted for them, against - 431, abstained 2. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In Amendment 4, the Senate proposes amendments to the Article. Article 147 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 4th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. One Member voted against - 430, with two abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 6, the Senate proposes amendments to Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 6th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. Nobody voted against them, against - 430, with a abstention of 3. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 12th Amendment, the Senate proposes amendments to Article. Article 4 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (7). The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 12th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. For -2, against -427, holding down 3. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 13th Amendment, the Senate proposes amendments to Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 13th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. Nobody voted for them, against -432, abstained 2. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 15th Amendment, the Senate proposes a new wording of the article. The 2nd Amending Act. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 15th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. Nobody voted against them, against - 428, with two abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 16th Amendment, the Senate proposes a new wording of the article. 3rd Amending Act. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 16th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. One Member voted against - 431, with two abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 17th Amendment, the Senate proposes a new wording of the article. The 6th Amendment Act. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you is against the 17th amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. For - 241, against - 186, the 6. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Industrial Property Law. This concludes the discussion of the agenda items scheduled for 20 February this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. I'm calling a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 23 minutes 11 hours 23 min 13]] I'm reopening the session. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one else is checking in. I therefore close the list of those who have expressed their willingness to make a statement. Ms Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition begins. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u372	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! My statement concerns 43. The Piast Run, which starts on 23 February in Yakuszyce and will last until 3 March 2019. Already next Saturday, February 23rd, I invite you to Yakuszyc, Szklarska Poręba, where another one will begin, because already 43. Cross-country Skiing Festival. This extraordinary sports and recreation event will last nine days. The Piast run will consist of nine gears at different distances, where about 6 thousand will take part. Skiers from all over the world. There will be races for professionals, but above all for amateurs, including beginners and of course for the youngest skiers, i.e. kindergarteners. The main competition, which will take place on 2 March, is the 50 km run by classical technique. More than 1600 people from 30 countries are already on the launch list. The results at this distance are included in Worldloppet, a world league that brings together the world's largest mass ski runs. In this race, the world champion and Olympic Champion Justyna Kowalczyk will take part for the second time. In 2017, she definitely won 50. Worldloppet also includes two other competitions: 25 km runs with classics and 30 km with any technique. The three Worldloppet runs are accompanied by four more in shorter distances and two runs for children. The 6 km run is organized for beginners who want to learn about the atmosphere of the great sporting event, which is the Piast Run. Of course, all competitions are open to all interested parties. Thanks to the high-ranking event at the starting point of the Piast Mountains, leading skiers from the Czech Republic, France, Italy, Germany and the USA will perform, of course, and Scandinavians. A great event, as I mentioned, will be the participation of the queen of Polish skis Justyna Kowalczyk. On this extraordinary occasion it is necessary to point out the unique qualities of the Jakuszycka Pole for cross-country skiing. It is in Szklarska Poręba - Jakuszyce that is the best conditions for cross-country skiing in Poland and even in the world. Climate conditions, beautiful forests and terrain allow you to organize ski competitions at the highest level in the world. The winter season in Jakuszycka Polana begins in November and continues until late spring. The snow cover is covered with a thick layer throughout the season. Skiing tours are 14 sections with a total length of more than 100 km. All routes form loops and join together, giving you the opportunity to choose an individual route tailored to the opportunities and needs of skiers. Terrain determines the degree of difficulty to vary greatly. The highest point on the routes is 1003 m above sea level. The organizer of this world event from the very beginning is the Piast Run Association, which is the only cross-country skiing centre in Poland that has been approved worldwide by FIS. It is worth highlighting the convenient railway connection from Jelenia Góra to Szklarska Poręba, Jakuszyc and Czech Republic. 43. The Piast run takes place under the patronage of the Polish Olympic Committee and the Polish Ski Association celebrating the century of its activity this year. All participants of the Piast Pole promote winter sports, including especially cross-country skiing, but also Jakuszycka Polena, Lower Silesia and Poland all over the world. I invite Members to participate in the Jubilee 43. The Piast Run, an unforgettable sports and recreation adventure. I would like to stress that some of the parliamentarians have been participating in this phenomenal competition in the surroundings of the beautiful nature of the Jizera Mountains for years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u373	Thank you. Mrs Anna Cicholska, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u374	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! It was very nice to welcome you to the walls of the Sejm Association of the Historical Population Reconstruction Group of the Civilian Mława. The group was established in 2008 at the Municipal Cultural House in Mława, with which it was connected until 2012. The group focused on the fascinations of history, organizing trips to historical reconstructions in the territory of Mazowsze and some cities of Poland. The association participates actively in numerous reconstructions, patriotic celebrations and live history lessons in the city and district. The Mławskie Association brings together people interested in the reproduction of Polish culture and customs, maintaining patriotic traditions. With exceptional piety, care for the smallest details members try to recreate the costumes and accessories of past times. Their performances, artistic and acting preparation delights the audience. The reconstruction group, working with the city's cultural center, supports the annual performances of the Mława bombing raid and the battles at Mława. For several years the group has been invited by the Mazovian Village Museum Skansen in Sierpc for events related to the tradition of Mazovia and the cultivation of subsequent rituals of the village of Mazovia. The members of the group have participated in numerous films, both feature films and documentary and teaching films. An example of this is the movie "1920 Battle of Warsaw," "History of the Rojas," "War and Love" 1920 and many others. In recent years there has been a remarkable interest of enthusiasts, development and activity of this type of historical associations. These are important and necessary initiatives. Members of associations not only cultivate and pass on Polish tradition and history, but also play a unique educational role. Shows, performances and reconstructions are an attractive lesson in history for young generations. It is worth supporting, it is worth helping when it comes to this type of initiative. Members of reconstruction groups are increasingly participating in patriotic and public ceremonies. They mark with their presence the memory of heroes and important events of our past. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u375	Mr Robert Majka, non-attached Member. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u376	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! There is no Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki... [[Voice from the room: There it is, there it is.]] I'm sorry. You are the Minister of Justice of Zbigniew Ziobro. I would like to remind you of my three questions that I asked the Minister at the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on 18 February. First question: Why the Department of Internal Affairs of the National Public Prosecutor's Office contrary to the article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The 4th Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office didn't file proceedings for the notification of Mr. Richard Jach of the crimes of the Supreme Court of Margaret Gersdorf? Question two: Why, despite the accusations made by Mr.Ryszard Jacha against the first Supreme Court President, including those formulated publicly in the media, has not yet been initiated either in the investigation or in relation to the Supreme Court Judge Margaret Gersdorf, art. 271 and Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 231 of the Penal Code, nor of Mr. Richard Jach, art. 226 Penal Code? Question three: Is the Republic of Poland a serious legal state? Mr Jarosław Kaczyński, President of the Law and Justice Party, in the content of the recent recordings in 2018 stated: We know how the law works in Poland. This tale of a state of law is a complete fairy tale. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Minister, I would ask the Minister to point out that, at a committee meeting as a member of this committee, I asked the Minister questions. Unfortunately, you haven't answered my questions. I must say that I take this as a typical disregard for the behaviour of the Minister of Justice in relation to a Member of the Republic of Poland, to my person. On the occasion, on the same subject, I would like to draw your attention to the following fact... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: I answered at the committee meeting.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u377	Minister, please don't discuss this. This is the time of the statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u378	You replied, but Minister Ziobro did not answer. These are two different things. I have submitted a request to the President of the Parliament's Committee on Justice and Human Rights regarding the appointment of a committee meeting to hear Mr Richard Jacha and the first President of the Supreme Court, Ms Margaret Gersdorf. And what did it turn out to be? The President of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the deadline must consult the Legal Office. To me, it's a psychic. I must say that this is a manifestation of the lack of competence of President Piotrowicz, who has a problem with deciding on the deadline. To be honest, I don't understand that kind of behavior. And one last thing. Let me remind you that my proposal to Mr Peterowicz was voted by the Parliamentary Committee on Justice and Human Rights on 15 January 2019. There were four votes in favour, 17 abstentions. The proposal is therefore formal and should confront the first Supreme Court President, Ms Margaret Gersdorf and Mr Richard Jachem. I hope that the media in Poland, the press and the Internet media will be interested in this matter of national importance. Thank you very much to the Minister and to you, although I am speaking in an almost empty room. Thank you kindly, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u379	Thank you very much. I invite you to the speaker of Alicja Chybicka, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, to make another statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u380	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to draw attention to the problem of unsponsored clinical trials, called non-commercial or academic research. These are priceless studies that bring new messages in terms of clinical practice. These studies in Poland are carried out in a percentage of less than 1% of all clinical trials, because we can still conduct sponsored clinical trials. I'm not gonna talk about that at all. These tests are really needed for patients, they are needed for patients. This percentage is less than 1% it places Poland in the tail of all Western European countries, where on average 30% of these researches are on average. There are costs in a non-commercial clinical trial, and there is no sponsor. It is a study that helps patients in difficult situations, in the case of very many different diseases, such as malignancies, chronic diseases, rare diseases. This is often the last resort for patients for whom conventional therapy is already over. There is a pressing need to increase the number of these studies. I would like to stress that these studies, according to the law in force in Poland, can run medical universities, hospitals. In everyday practice, however, these are multicentre, international projects. It's in child cancer, which I'm honored to represent. In fact, no Polish child can be treated properly if it is not carried out in such a non-sponsored clinical trial. How is this happening right now? This is the way it is done: the president of the university or the director, who currently has no money, has to be sponsored. There is no profit in such research. This is not a research conducted by a pharmaceutical company. The only profit is what the sick get. Therefore, there is a very urgent need to increase the number of these studies, to facilitate the opening of studies, to secure funds for programme insurance, registration costs, data manager costs, monitor costs. Although this is not a big cost, because already a lion's part of this research is covered by the National Health Fund, Poland falls out of the calculation of common conclusions, and if it does not enter such a project, it loses the possibility of consulting its patients in various fields. I hope that the Agency for Medical Research, which is being created, will solve this problem and allow Poland not to remain in the tail of Europe. I hope that this will give Polish patients with various diseases, not only cancer, to recover their health, often to save their lives. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u381	Thank you very much. A further statement will be made by Mr Kurzepa, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u382	Dear Marshal! The bridesmaids and the bridesmaids! Girl Scouts and Boy Scouts from yesterday and today! 75 years ago, on 20 February 1944 in the German concentration camp Gross-Rosen was murdered the first chief of the Grey Privates, a friend of the scout Florian Marciniak. It is worth that today we go back in time and pay homage to all the scouts and scouts who, during the long occupied night of World War II, stood in the ranks of the conspiracy scouting, which was called the Grey Troops. As it happens, I once had the opportunity to accompany the warden of the Grey Troops to Stanisław Broniewski. Speaking of Florian Marciniak, he mentioned that during the first days of the occupation they talked to each other and asked themselves, "How are we, Boy Scout, to behave? Florian said, "Go to battle, on the first line." That's what they did. Today, when we look at the programming and methodology of the Grey Troops, we remember these slogans: today, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow. Today - preparation for the fight, tomorrow - fight, revolt, the day after tomorrow - reconstruction of Poland. And at the same time these three concepts used methods of educational influence appropriate to age groups. After all, you remember the youngest Hawks, they were the ears, just teenage boys and girls, and the children. And then the Battle Schools, which is no longer naked, but not grown men yet. And the Storm Groups who laid on the altar the country's most bloody victim, the victim of their lives. Therefore, I think that, given the signs left for us by Florian Marciniak, we can ask ourselves: What is our today, bathed in celebrating the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence, as well as in the narration of the enemy and lying also for all that they gave young life to the Scouts and Girl Scouts of the Grey Troops? What kind of battle should we make modern Boy Scouts not move their necks to the next blows inflicted by a lying internal or external narrative, taking away their heroism, humanity in the times of German, Soviet or Ukrainian barbarism, taking away the certainty that we Poles are the main victims of World War II and not its perpetrators? What kind of assault groups do we need today? Surely those who, based on solid knowledge, historical awareness and firm certainty about the facts will defend our dignity, will raise respect for the heroism of our nation and heritage that it brings to the story of the community of the nations of the world, of which we can be proud. The bridesmaids and bridesmaids, it is your duty today, it is your Westerplatte, it is your time to zealously care for your homeland, but also its citizens who are lost, confused, because in the humbug of information noise, as well as their intellectual sluggishness, a kind of secondary historical illiteracy, they are more willing to urge their ear to curse Poland than to defend it. That is why your testimony is so important, which resulted in a beautiful fire of independence. Fire it, fire it, burn it, share it generously and unselfishly. Watch out. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u383	Mr Jan Mosiński, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u384	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to bring the High House closer to the figure of a Jesuit, an extraordinary priest, a missionary, a patriot, a Kashuba. Father Zdzisław Pałubicki, because he was born on 11 May 1935 in Liniewa, Kashubach. Soon he and his family lived in Nakle. He attended a local middle school. After his graduation, he joined a seminary in Gniezno, where on May 23, 1959, at the hands of cardinals. Stefan Wyszyński was ordained priestly. He was a diocesan priest for a year. He served as a vicar in the parish in Szubina. At that time he thought about going to Africa and then joined the Jesuit Order. Her missionary vocation was due to her mother, who prayed that her son would become a missionary. How often he said: When I was three years old, my mother died. After my priestly ordination, I learned from my aunts that my mother had prayed that I would become a missionary. Father Zdzisław Pałubicki has carried out over 1 thousand since 1963. Weekly missions, which means 25,000. sciences in Poland and various parts of the world, including: in Australia, Canada, Sweden, Portugal, Italy, Palestine, Belarus, Austria, Great Britain or America. He was a steadfast advocate of the mission of the Holy Ones about the Mercy of Jesus' Heart, as well as a missionary of God's Mercy. I met Father Zdzisław at the turn of the '80s and '90s. The 20th century on the threshold of free Poland. I had heard of him earlier that he was a priest who uncompromisingly preached his views about the situation in our country, which was then enslaved by communist terror. At that time the courage cost, but it was not exposed by him in order to gain cheap applause. His views and deeply patriotic sermons and uncompromising towards communism caused the church authorities to forbid him from preaching God's word in fear of his life, for he could share the tragic fate of priests of patriots tormented by the communist regime. Even during the period of the Polish People's Republic there appeared information that Father Zdzisław Pałubicki is on a special list of priests, i.e. on the target of the Security Service. He's been interrogated several dozen times by SB officers. His passport was refused in order to prevent him from going on missions where he was to preach the teachings of God's Mercy. The nature of the Jesuit of Kashub caused him not to break down, not to bow under the pressure of the SB. Father Zdzisław Pałubicki was also an editor of many works with religious content. He has developed a four-volume manual for the mission of Divine Mercy. In 1988, in Rome, he personally handed it to his father St. John Paul II. He also published the missionary prayer book, the indulgences--the manifestation of Divine Mercy, or the prayer in the words of St. Faustina and other publications. He created the website. miłosierdzie.info.pl. Pałubicki's father, the faithful of the Fortress of Kalisz, owe to bringing to Kalisz the image of Jesus the Merciful, which was painted under the dictation of the Blessed One. Fr. Michał Sopoćki - Confessor of Sister Faustina. It was this image that received the first approval of the Polish Episcopate commission on 5 October 1954 on the 16th anniversary of the death of St. Faustina's sisters. Father Zdzisław Pałubicki since 1992 belonged to the Jesuit community in Kalisz, where he worked at the Shrine of the Heart of Jesus the Merciful. He often went away with folk missions and engaged in the spreading of the cult of St. Andrzej Bobola and the cult of Divine Mercy. In 2006, he stopped his missionary journey and focused mainly on the promotion of God's Mercy on the Internet. His missionary work contributed greatly to the development of the service to the Most Holy Heart of Jesus, popularizing the silhouette of St. Andrzej Boboli also developed the cult of Divine Mercy in many parishes. Father Zdzisław Pałubicki died on 15 February this year. in Kalisz in the memory of Blessed. Fr. Michał Sopoćki in 84 years of religious life and 60 years of priesthood. A missionary and a promoter of the cult of Divine Mercy, who became famous, among others, has left us. Atonement over the Internet. Go to the website. Mercy.info. en - those were his words. Tomorrow at Kalisz in the Shrine of the Heart of Merciful Jesus there will be funeral celebrations, during which the farewell father Zdzisław will be greeted. This ceremony will be presided over by the bishop of the Diocese of Kalisz, Fr. Bishop Edward Janiak. You can say: Ad majorem Dei gloriam et Beatissimae Virginis Mariae honorem. It is the Latin motto of the Jesuit order, and it means as much as: for the greater glory of God and honor of the Blessed Virgin Mary. In this motto you can close the entire life of father Zdzisław Pałubicki. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u385	Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u386	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today at the hour. 9 a.m., the tree section for the construction of a canal in Vistula Mieria ended. The work was carried out continuously from Friday, also at night. I was there the day before yesterday. I have to say, there's a terrible landscape there, a picture of destruction. And this Harwester -- a giant machine that was walking and smashing and smashing and smashing and smashing and smashing other trees, one by one... It's a really scary view. Since Friday, the foresters have cut about 10,000. trees that grew on 25 hectares of Landscape Park. There is no economic justification for this huge expensive investment, which is the excavation of the Vistula mine. The PiS government wants to spend nearly PLN 1 billion on the construction of this excavation. To this, of course, the costs of upgrading infrastructure in Elbląg and building roads to communicate this port as well as access roads to the excavation must be added. I object to such a costly and unwarranted investment. This excavation destroys the unique areas of Vislane, fauna and flora, while bringing disproportionate, small benefits resulting from this excavation for Elbląg, unlike the PiS state claims. On average, the depth of the Vistula River, from 2.5 m to only 4 m, is small enough that it will not allow the development of the Elbląg port presented by the government. Why destroy the beautiful nature of the Vistula Land, unique on a European scale, if the benefits for Elbląg are so small? According to experts, the cost of the excavation alone could cost up to PLN 2 billion. One forgets that there will be a huge annual cost of living. The entire year will have to deepen the watercourse because, as I mentioned earlier, the flood is shallow. In winter, on the other hand, in the cold, the flood freezes and the cost of breaking through icebreakers again has to be borne. This will certainly not allow the shipping of large transport vessels. So we spend so much money from the budget that only bigger yachts can come to Elbląg. PiS joined the clipping of these trees in an express way. We know that this is because of concerns about the content of the European Commission's response on the compatibility of the implementation of the excavation with the European Union's environmental legislation. You all know that this area is in the protected Natura 2000 area. European Commission has reservations about the investment. EU officials also have doubts about the impact of clippings on the environment, not to mention the floating sands whose natural arrangement will be destroyed, and the fauna, the flora I mentioned earlier. At the beginning of January, the European Commission asked the Polish government to stop the excavation work and asked the government questions about the environmental impact of the investment. The European Commission has received a response from the government and is currently analysing this document in the light of existing European Union environmental legislation. The PiS, expecting a negative response from the European Commission, began at an express pace the destruction of 25 hectares of forest in the Vistula mine. Like most of the inhabitants of the Pomeranian Voivodeship, and in particular of the Vistula Meeria, I strongly oppose this excavation of Vistula Meeria and support all protesters, protesting residents. Some are not only from the region of the measure, but also from the whole Pomeranian voivodship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u387	Thank you. Mr Aleksander Forczyński, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u388	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On 7 February 2019 Fr. Prelate Alexander Kłos. A priest who has been associated with the Chojnic decanate for more than 55 years. Priest Alexander Kłos was ordained priestly in 1957. His childhood and youth, the teachings in the seminar fall for the period of two terrible genocide totalitarianisms: German Nazism and Soviet communism. This difficult time hardened a young priest in his love for his homeland, but most of all in truth and in service to others. Fr. Aleksander Kłos joined Chojnice as the first parish priest, the creator of the largest parish of Chojnice, parish of St. Our Lady of the Queen of Poland. It's Fr. Alexander, with the support of many people of good will, which he focused around Christ and the Church, built a new temple in difficult times. The parishioners responded eagerly to the slogan of the construction of the temple and actively supported the activities of the new parish priest in the construction of the chapel, church and parish facilities. A beautiful temple, a funeral home and a diner for the poor are works of life Fr. Prime Minister Alexander Kłos, who will serve the parish community for many years. Fr. The prelate Alexander Kłos was a great patriot. His sermons repeatedly referred to the love of the country and the responsibilities we have toward it. He has actively supported activists of Solidarity and patriotic organizations. At the hands of Fr. Aleksandra Kłosa 15 years ago as director of the Second General High School. General Władysław Anders, I've accepted his school standard. The banner on which the words were written: God, Honor, Homeland. This is a very important event for the school community. It's in my memory all the time. In the parish, which he led for many years, his seat and place of common prayer found the Chojnicki branch of the Radio Maryja family. The Prelate was relentless in matters of principle, dogmatic. He has always defended the weakest, unborn children, stigmatizing abortion and in vitro and other forms of civilization of death, such as euthanasia. For many years he has supported the Hospice Friends' Society in Chojnice, an association that builds a stationary hospice and helps cancer patients and their families. The funeral of the Prelate was a great manifestation of faith and prayer, and at the same time thanks for his long service to the parish of Our Lady of Poland in Chojnice, church and homeland. From here, I'd like to pay my respects to the sleep. Fr. Prime Minister Alexander Kłos and express his homage and thanks for his long service and work in Chojnice. Give him eternal rest, O Lord, and let eternal light shine unto him forever. Amen. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u389	Thank you. Mr Wojciech Murdzek, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u390	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, residents of Świdnica, a city I had the privilege of being president for many years, were surprised and saddened by the news that in some media in Israel there was information about the alleged devastation, the desecration of the Jewish cemetery in Świdnica. Sadness and pain is the greater that it is absolutely false information, so-called. fake news. Photos come from a few years ago, from a completely different village and relate to a completely different incident. The objective of this article, taking into account recently the tensions of some politicians in relations between the two states, is closer to an indeterminate one, but this seems to be a hidden political objective. This causes great damage to residents who are proud of a tolerant, open city respecting the achievements of many generations and many cultures that influenced the strong and beautiful historical position of Świdnica. At this point I would like to thank the Ministry of Foreign Affairs very warmly for their very rapid response and protest against this phenomenon. I hope it's an incident that won't happen again, and the people will still be proud of their multicultural, multi-faith history. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u391	Thank you very much. The last statement will be made by Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15 You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u392	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I was obliged by a group of voters to make this statement. I very much regret that it is now the middle of the night, midnight, and there is no Minister Ziobra, Minister Wójcik and Minister Jaki. I hope that this speech somehow gets to them after all. Minister Ziobra's department is preparing a project quite thorough reform of the family and care code. This project is advertised, recommended, praised as a project that will restore, and will actually introduce the possibility of alternate care in Poland. This is a very good direction and parents of children who are alienated today would applaud if not that it does not change the article. 26 § 2 Civil Code. Despite many appeals and many information to Minister Ziobra, the government has not yet allowed itself any projects to amend this paragraph. I will read it because perhaps not everyone knows it, and it shows how paranoid Polish law can be, which regulates the lives of tens of thousands of children. Literally, if parental authority is equal to that of both parents residing in separate residences, the place of residence of the child is with the parent with whom the child is permanently resident. You understand. In this paragraph there is another sentence: if the child is not permanently staying with any of the parents - this is classic replacement care - his place of residence is determined by the custody court. Minister! This is a request from many backgrounds, mostly fatherly, but not only. Unfortunately, mothers are also alienated. Minister, if you don't change that, no change in the family and care code will be effective. I'm begging you to understand this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-20-sejm-77-3.u393	Thank you, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. By 21 February 2019 at the latest 9. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 23 min 55]]
