ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I am calling for the secretaries of today's deliberations to be Members of Daniel Milewski, Waldemar Buda, Catherine Osos and Krystian Jarubas. In the first part of the session, Mr Daniel Milewski and Mr Waldemar Buda will be the secretaries. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Daniel Milewski and Katarzyna Osos. I consider the minutes of the 78th session of the Sejm to be adopted in the absence of objections. High Izbo! Please rise. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] On 15 March, Wiesław Kilian, Member of the Sejm V and the 6th term of office, Senator VIII, died and the current term of office. Decorated posthumously with the Bachelor's Cross of the Order of the Rebirth of Poland. On 21 March, Józef Bergier, Member of the Sejm of the 3rd term of office and Senator of the 7th term of office, died. Academic teacher, awarded with the Bachelor's Cross of the Order of the Rebirth of Poland. Let's celebrate their memory in a moment of silence. [[Give them eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon them.]] [[Give them eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon them.]] [[Give them eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon them.]] [[Let them rest in eternal peace.]] [[Members: Amen.]] Thank you. The Council of Ministers has submitted draft laws: - one-off payment to pensioners in 2019, - on the amendment of the Act of the Family and Care Code and the Act of the Code of Civil Procedure. The designs are prints 3311 and 3295 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the first reading of these draft laws. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs has submitted a report on the government draft law on the submission of certain official documents in the Member States of the European Union, print No 3332. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. The Board of Administration and Home Affairs submitted a report on the government draft law amending the Civil Records Act, print No 3333. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The committee responsible has submitted reports on draft resolutions: - concerning the commemoration of Joseph Mehoffer on the 150th anniversary of his birth, - about commemorating the 150th anniversary of Stanisław Wojciechowski's birth. These are prints 3336 and 3339 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights has submitted an opinion on the candidate for President of the Office for Personal Data Protection. The opinion is in print No 3337. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with a point on the matter. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in a joint discussion on draft laws on the extraction tax of certain minerals. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in discussions on committee reports on anniversary resolutions. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that in discussions on the other items on the agenda, the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I would like to inform you that the Seniors' Convention unanimously gave its opinion on the proposal to consider at this meeting information on the crisis in education and the planned teacher protest, which was proposed by the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Platform (Citizen's Coalition) Parliamentary Club. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter, as well as the list of laws that the Senate adopted without amendments, are available in the Sejm Information System. I also inform you that at the moment the Sejm is being heard by students and teachers from the School Complex in Teresin, the Sochaczewski district - we welcome you cordially - and residents of the western district of Warsaw. [[Applause]] I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Inquiry to examine the regularity and legality of operations and the negligence and omissions of public authorities and institutions in ensuring the revenue of the Treasury in respect of the tax on goods and services and excise duties between December 2007 and November 2015 - at 10, - Investigative to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group - hour 10.15, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 10.30, - Poselska etiquette - hour. 10.30, - Public Finance together with the Committee on Education, Science and Youth - hour. 10.30, - National Defence together with the Committee on Foreign Affairs - h.m. 10.30, - Extraordinary for the examination of draft electoral law laws - hour. 10.30, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 11.30, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - Public Finance - hour. 12, - Health-- hour. 12, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 13, - Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs - hour. 13, - Foreign Affairs - hour 13, - Public Finance - hour. 15, - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Health - h.m. 16, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 17. The pastoral ministry of parliamentarians warmly invites ladies and gentlemen to the Lent Retreat which will take place on 11 and 12 April this year. They will start on Thursday 11 April at 3 p.m. 20 at St. Aleksandra at the Three Crosses Square in Warsaw, and on Friday 12 April - at 3 pm. 7.30 in the Seym Chapel at the House of Parliament. The retreat will be conducted by Professor Andrzej Kobyliński from the University of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński in Warsaw. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Animal Friends Team - h.m. 10, - Parliamentary Group for Pro-Family Policy and Culture - h.m. 11.30, - Parliamentary Team - break up with plastic - hour 12, - Parliamentary Group for Catholic Social Science - at 10 p.m. 13, - Parliamentary Team of Friends of Oder - hour 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Africa - hour 2.30 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u3	Thank you. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: First reading of the Government's proposal for a one-off payment law for pensioners in 2019 (Print No. 3311). Please take the floor of the President of the Council of Ministers of Mateusz Morawiecki. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Five weeks ago, we started to present our new five... [[Not yours, the Poles.]] ...and now consistently We are fulfilling our announcements. It is another announcement that we are doing, because we are really different from the European Coalition, from the Civic Platform, that we not only make promises, but we are doing them, we are realizing them. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Matthew!]] The characteristic feature of our program, which we called the Five Laws and Justice, the Five Jarosław Kaczyński, is universality. This is a program that can actually serve all citizens at different stages of their lives: 500+, a programme for young, zero PIT, then a reduction in PIT and finally For pensioners this is a special time, because it is worth noting that this year it will be for our seniors, for our grandmothers, grandparents the year of three financial reinforcements. This is our big thank you for the retirees, for all the seniors. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] What are the three reinforcements? [[What?]] The first one's already done, that's quota valorization. [[Has she been gone so far?]] This is a quota valorisation of at least 70 PLN, which for most pensioners means a greater valorisation than that of all existing regulations, legislation, of course inflation increases and 20% the average increase in national remuneration. These 70 zlotys exceed the average increases, which belong to the indexing of pensions. It's the first financial reinforcement. The second financial reinforcement for our pensioners is the "Emerity+', which is this supplement, the financial stimulus that we want to talk about today and in connection with which we want to ask the High House to accept it. Finally, the third financial reinforcement will take place in autumn. This is a reduction of PIT by 1 percentage point, i.e. by about 6%. The PIT reduction will also benefit all pensioners. All those who collect pension benefits and pay PIT today will have lower PIT in autumn, i.e. higher net benefit per hand. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today we want to take care of our development programmes, economic programmes, tax sealing, effective action in the area of public finances. These are actions for tomorrow, for Poland to develop better. But we also want to take care of those who have worked for many years for ours here and now, for ours today. These are our wonderful pensioners, our seniors, our grandmothers, our grandparents, our moms, our dads. They were the ones who rebuilt Poland after World War II, they were standing in these socialist communist queues for butter, for bread. After that, through the plan of Balcerowicz, by liberals, they were marginalized in the years III of the Republic. [[Applause]] They're the ones who deserve the support. It is for them to be supported, and this support today, in the form of "Emerity+" is real, concrete support, equal support, fair support, because the proposals that had been made earlier, also from the opposition bench, which, of course, as it was in power, was able to afford some increases: increases in the retirement age, increases in VAT - such increases, not real increases in pensions, [[Applause]] how this is done through the Emerson+. In the meantime, in a situation where we have constructed an Emerity+, whose support I appeal to the entire High House... It is constructed more justly, because for those who have the lowest pensions, it is proportional, the percentage is higher. For those who have higher pensions, it is a percentage lower, and in sum the same, i.e. it gives some social justice in the financial realities in which we find ourselves. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! We say, "Emerity+" but we really want to take the burdens off the pensioners. We're trying to make them feel a little better. We're trying to make them better. We want through this financial reinforcement to ensure that the autumn of life - the autumn, which can be a beautiful season of the year, full of various colours - is full of beautiful colors for our pensioners, so that it is such a time of life when pensioners can also develop wings. The financial resources that we spend on this are supposed to make it easier for them. Pretty a few years ago, I came across a volume of poetry by Mr. Adam Waga. There was a mention of this gentleman's debut. Reading these poems, I wondered how it was possible for the debut to be so mature. It was only then that I found out that Adam Libra was a literary nickname for Clement Górski and that at the time of his debut he was 71 years old. Recently, a few years ago, he released a fourth volume of poetry. Today she is 80 years old and writes beautiful poems. I think that our "Emerity+" is precisely the kind of financial strengthening that is supposed to allow pensioners to make their debut at all ages, [[Applause]] to sweeten your life a little bit - because that's what we do for pensioners. That is why we raised the minimum pension from 880 PLN to 1100 PLN, to be precise: from 880,45 PLN to 1100 PLN, i.e. by 25%, by 220 PLN. For some, it's just numbers. For us, High Izbo, this is a more worthy life of millions of pensioners. For us, these are economic activities that translate into social life, the lives of millions of people, our dear grandparents, our dearest grandmothers, moms and fathers. For us this is the meaning of life, for us this is the meaning of doing things in political life. For us, this is the foundation of politics, that is, justice. What is a state without justice? I think it's just a bunch of robbers, like St. Augustine. This is our azimuth. This is how we understand the nave of the state - to share the most basic needs with those who need it in sweat. Ladies and gentlemen! Recently, I have heard with great sadness how the European Coalition treats the America+. Well, one of today's leading representatives of the European Coalition, who runs from the first place to the European Parliament, called it a horror, an empire + a chasm. He called her a sausage, even a sausage, an election. [[Yes, sir.]] Those are words that should never be said. [[Applause]] Those are reprehensible words. Will you deny those words of your leading representative? I'm asking the Civic Platform, the European Coalition. [[We're waiting for you to apologize.]] One Member of the Civic Platform speaks of this programme as humiliation. I understand that if you undo this program, it won't be humiliating. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[But what are you saying? This is our show.]] You're talking about our programs, the five of us, that it's contemptible. [[Where's the finance minister?]] They say it's contemptible. I understand they're gonna undo these programs because you never know with them. [[But what are you talking about?]] In the morning, when they get up, they say they're gonna hold it, and in the evening they say they're gonna cut it and they're gonna change the programs. [[Applause]] Then who are we supposed to be running these programs for? For the VAT mob, like in your day? [[Applause]] We can't even do this anymore because they're in prison. [[It's not right for the Prime Minister to lie like that.]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we have decided on a great programme of "Emerity+" and as long as there is a good host, as long as there is Law and Justice, then, we promise, when the chestnuts bloom... [[You've made a mistake.]] ... The programme will continue. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] And in the case of the Civic Platform, I think if the pear grows on the willow, then it will continue. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] Dear fellow countrymen! Dear Retirement! Our grandmothers, our grandparents, our moms and fathers who sweated their foreheads working on our economy today, this is not a gift, this is a great token of the gratitude of the whole nation to you for your enormous effort. I've been seeing a lot of retired people lately during my visits to senior homes. I've been to Krzeszowice, many other places. At one meeting, Mrs. Halina told me that she couldn't afford to save money for a pilgrimage to Medjugorje. It'll be possible now. Another lady, Mrs. Sophia, told me about a present for grandkids' Day. Don't laugh at it, this grandson's gift is a great joy to a retired man. [[Applause]] Our dear opposition, these are the dignity, important in the life of every human being, but in the life of pensioners extremely important moments that we want to facilitate and our programme of the Emerity+. High Izbo! This is a fundamental programme for us - a social programme, one of the universal programmes, programmes to change, improve the lives of our citizens. So I ask that, regardless of political colors, this effort of Law and Justice, which now, here, before the High House, we present, an enormous effort actually, because of these winning battles with the VAT mobs, this money is spent on the America+, has been appreciated. And I ask the High House's unanimous support for our proposal, for our project "Emerity+. Thank you very much. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u5	Thank you, Prime Minister. I ask the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Elizabeth Rafalska, to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Polish society is currently facing challenges arising from changes in the demographic structure of the population. The two main phenomena resulting from demographic change are, on the one hand, low fertility and, on the other hand, an increasing number of older people. Therefore, social policy towards older people is one of the priorities of public policy for the entire Council of Ministers, the United Right Government and Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. The aim of social policy towards older people is to improve the quality of life of senior citizens by enabling them to remain as independent, active and secure as possible. This security means a sense of freedom from poverty, as well as freedom from anxiety about our own health, mental and physical security in all aspects of the social life of the elderly. Our policy towards older people is to implement measures to guarantee social security for older people, i.e. freedom from the lack of means or conditions to meet the basic needs that will arise in life or after the end of work. Elderly people make a huge contribution to the development of each family by cultivating and developing intergenerational ties. They are the ones who carry out the continuity of generations and share their relationship with one another. For the experience of the elderly is an invaluable treasure, and their counsel, knowledge, and wisdom can always serve younger generations. The Government of Law and Justice appreciates this and proposes favourable solutions for older people who have their professional activities behind them. High Izbo! On 23 February, additional assistance was announced at the Law and Justice Convention for pensioners and pensioners in the form of a 13th pension for each senior. The announcement of Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński is implemented by Prime Minister Morawiecki, and our road map is step by step, well implemented. We want to implement it by paying single cash benefits for all recipients. The Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy prepared a draft law on one-off cash provision for pensioners in 2019. The aim of this single benefit in addition to assistance to pensioners is in particular to reduce the income gap in society, including with regard to the income of older people in retirement, pensions or other benefits, e.g. benefits or pre-retirement benefits or social benefits. We propose payment of one-off cash benefits in the amount of the lowest pension, which since 1 March of this year is 1100 PLN gross, net of 888.25 PLN. It responds to the expectations of Poles, responds to the needs of pensioners and pensioners. This is confirmed by the CBOS study, which in March asked Poles about the assessment of our Friday, Fridays of Law and Justice. All these proposals meet with a strong response, with a favourable social response, but 13 pension, High Izbo, supports 84% not only those who are waiting for this benefit, but all those who know that pensioners and pensioners have absolutely deserved it. This is the highest, best score of all regarding the proposals of the Fiveth Law and Justice. "Emerity+" is part of our long-term policy of supporting older people, pensioners and pensioners, as I mentioned at the outset. We're putting a lot of weight on it. This was mentioned in his speech by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, stressing that we have restored the previous retirement age. Much of the participants present in this Chamber have increased their retirement age in spite of what the Poles thought of this decision, contrary to social protests. In 2016, we paid one-off allowances for pensioners who have lower benefits in addition to the statutory valorization. These were varied allowances: the highest supplement was 400 PLN and was due to those who had the lowest benefit. In 2017, our government raised the lowest pension from PLN 882,56 first to PLN 1000, it was an increase of 13 percent, and today we have this benefit of PLN 1100. Last year's valorization has been the highest for 5 years, while in 2019 the valorisation - said the Prime Minister - is a quota-percent benefit and there are no such people who have the required internship and would receive a valorization lower than 70 PLN. And we remember that it was 5 PLN, 6 PLN or not much more. In total, the lowest benefits for pensioners and pensioners increased by 1/4 between 2016 and 2019. In 2015, PLN 3.5 billion was allocated for valorisation; in 2018 it was PLN 5960 million; in 2019 the cost of March valorisation was foreseen for PLN 7900 million. In May we propose payment of one-off benefits - I mentioned this - 1100 PLN gross. All pensioners and pensioners will receive the benefit. As regards the benefits paid by the Social Security Office, the solution will apply in the case of 5740,000. pensions, 1230 000. family pensions, 753 thousand. Rentists who take benefits for incapacity to work. This will be provided to those who have teacher compensation benefits, who receive bridge pensions, who also have paid benefits from the state budget to be paid by the CRUs and the CSO. In the case of the KRUS, this will apply to the pensions of the KRUS system, it is 901 thousand, pensions for incapacity for work - 197 thousand, 43 thousand. Family pensions, I'm talking about the KRUS system itself. They will also receive this benefit from those who collect pensions, uniform pensions, 101 000. people receiving benefits and pre-retirement benefits, 282 000. Social Rentists and 65 thousand. - those who take Mama+'s pension, the parent's supplementary benefit. In total, 9800 000 will benefit from the "Emerity+" programme. people, and for the implementation of this program we will spend PLN 10 800 million. The one-off cash benefit will be paid in an amount less the personal income tax and the health insurance premium. So the typical amount of the benefit will be PLN 880,25. Retirement+ will be given to all pensioners - this is very important - regardless of the amount of the benefit received and I do not mean pensioners who receive higher benefits, but rather those who also receive lower benefits because they did not fulfil, for example. the criteria for the required internship. So this benefit will be paid without determining the income criterion. In the event of a coincidence, only one single cash benefit will be granted to the entitled person. One single cash benefit will also benefit from a survivor's pension to which more than one person is entitled. In our statutory regulation, we propose that a one-off cash benefit be paid out of office without the need to submit applications, together with the provision, on the date of payment in May: 1, 5, 6, 10, 15, 20 and 25 May. [[Applause]] Those are paydays. Then the monthly pension will be an additional benefit. The exception to these payment deadlines refers to the payment in June, because in June benefits and pre-retirement benefits are paid, and if there are also quarterly payments of some benefits from KRUS, then at the beginning of July, but, of course, in those dates where usually pensioners received them, and already earlier it was mentioned that, as the 1st of May is a holiday, there is a free day, so a significant part will receive this benefit in the last days of April. Decisions on one-off benefits will be issued and benefits will be paid by the competent pension authorities and, in the event of a coincidence, the right to benefits which are paid by the two authorities, the decision shall be issued and one-off benefits paid by the Social Insurance Institution. Ladies and gentlemen, the Emerity+ is a real support. It's not like the Prime Minister said it was scraps. A lot of courage would have to be given to someone who would say it, go and meet Polish pensioners. And already saying that this is humiliation, that's it, ladies and gentlemen, some kind of cosmos. [[Applause]] The humiliation is what you've been doing all these years, raising your retirement age, not valorizing, not raising those benefits. As you can tell people who are waiting for these benefits - and some of them have already spent this money - that it is giving money that will improve their living standards, quality of life, maybe for a short time, but still, it may be humiliating. It's more like poverty to be humiliated. [[Applause]] You don't know what you're talking about. Ladies and gentlemen! We have different data on the risks of poverty, the risks of poverty for older people. When analysing these GUS data or others, Eurostat, we need to remember that older people usually create small, one- or two-person farms, which means that they bear relatively higher costs, e.g. for food, housing in comparison with working households. Their fixed cost of living is therefore higher than the average. In addition, with age, health declines and thus increases expenditure in this area. Retirement and pensioners spend on average 8o9% all expenditure on a monthly basis, while Poles spend only 5.5% for this purpose. And it's an occasional expense, it's a monthly expense, and sometimes, you can say, from month to month. All the money we're talking about is going to the seniors. [[♪ The bell ♪]] "Emerity+" is free from deductions and executions. The amount of this single benefit will not affect the entitlement of applicants for benefits, allowances, benefits, assistance or support, e.g. Rehabilitation relief. It will also not affect entitlement to a social pension. This means, ladies and gentlemen, that this one-off benefit will not result in us losing the right to benefits we have so far benefited from. No, that's not gonna happen. We made sure of that. Nor will it be the basis for determining the payment for a stay in social services homes. There, people pay 70%. That's a hit-and-run. This time, this benefit is the amount that they will have, without withholding from it the payment for their stay in social assistance homes. [[Applause]] Already today, the DPS people are very pleased about this. We propose that the law enter into force on the day following the date of publication. This is due to the need to prepare for the technical payment of the benefit as early as mid-April. Since 1 May is a free day, as I said, these benefits will then be paid. In view of the above, High Izbo, I ask for the adoption of this draft law on one-off provision of money for pensioners in 2019. This is an important law for older people in retirement and pensions, a law that will make their lives easier, support their lives, a law that shows that the Government of Law and Justice remembers and cares about Poles in pensions and pensions. After years of working for Poland, they earned this support. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. [[The presidency includes Deputy Marshal of the Seym Beata Mazurek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u7	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Urszula Ruseck, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u8	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Minister! It is a real honor and pleasure for me to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice and to recommend to the High House a draft bill on one-off provision of money to pensioners in print no. 3311, called "Emeritura+. High Izbo! The law and justice which the Poles received from Poles was a mandate of trust in parliamentary elections, from citizens who expected a good, positive change to the failed governments of their predecessors, from Poles who accepted the Law and Justice programme written by them themselves, the implementation of these new projects once again proves their credibility. The Government of the United Right conducts economic policy in a responsible manner while at the same time taking care of development, budget, public finances. Let me remind you that we have had the lowest deficit for several years, high GDP. We've become a developed economy. The government, fighting crime and extortion, at the same time solves social problems. Our government is pursuing a policy that is in line with the values of solidarity. Within 3 years, he has completed most of the electoral tasks and programmes he has committed himself to - reforms expected by Poles. Let me just remind you of those in the social policy area. The flagship programme is Family 500+. This programme eliminated extreme poverty among children and gave dignity to the Polish family. Restoration of retirement age. Yeah, we're believable, that's what we promised and realized. Today's opposition behaved completely differently when it ruled. We raised the lowest salary, the hourly rate, the lowest pension, the social pension we raised to the level of disability pension, we increased the funds for the programs "Senior+', "Milch+'. We have created a solidarity fund, which will only support people with disabilities and their families this year with the amount of more than PLN 600 million. We've introduced a mother's pension. These are just some of the actions. The Government of Law and Justice spends four times as much on social policy as its predecessors, because it is committed to building a coherent support system for the weakest and the excluded. High Izbo! The government project that has been under investigation is "Emeritura+" as of May this year. they will start to reach over 9.8 million people without the need to submit proposals. The benefit will be granted to all pensioners: both ZUS and KRUS, as well as uniform pensions, social and family pensions, pre-retirement benefits and teacher compensation benefits. Ladies and gentlemen! Law and Justice pursues another point of agreement with Poles, listens to them and fulfills their will. 84 percent of the public support for this project is proof of this. For the first time in history, 13th pension is addressed to all pensioners - people who have mostly completed their professional activities. It is an expression of our special concern and gratitude. Additional measures will enable them to meet their various needs and will undoubtedly generate modest domestic budgets. As a member of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, I am very grateful to our government - the Government of Law and Justice, the United Right, which not only declares, but above all fulfils the commitments made during discussions and meetings with Poles. In politics, credibility is the most important thing. In our view, this is a good and expected project and therefore, Prime Minister, the Law and Justice Club fully supports it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u9	Thank you. Ms Magdalena Kochan, PO-KO, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u10	High Izbo! After listening to the Prime Minister's speech, I remembered the quote from Professor Bartoszewski: It is worth being decent, although it does not pay off. It pays to be dirty, but it's not worth it. [[Applause]] Prime Minister! How can one-off benefits be received? Explain that to me. How can you predict from this speaker that the Civic Coalition will take anything, and in particular that it will take a benefit that is paid once? How can you say that? Aren't you ashamed? You're just not ashamed? [[Applause]] [[Can you listen with understanding? How can you twist like that?]] I will ignore how the RCLs justify impact assessments, but I will not ignore the fact that not all pensioners and pensioners will receive this benefit. They shall be granted only to those who are entitled to a pension fixed no later than 30 April this year. Those who obtain such a right in May or June will no longer receive it. As we read in the explanatory memorandum, the purpose of this single benefit is to help pensioners and pensioners. I agree with that. However, the aim is also to reduce property differences in society, and that is not true. The same benefit will be given to the person who pays the solidarity tax, so its income is above PLN 1 million per year, the one who receives the average pension, as well as the one who is entitled to a pension of PLN 2.90 because she worked in her life for 2 months and 8 days. It's not equalizing the differences, it's fixing them. [[Applause]] A project submitted by the government by Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz in autumn 2015, in which the amount of one-off benefits was linked to the overall amount of benefits, was used to compensate for the differences. [[67 years old.]] The higher the pension and pension, the lower the benefit, the higher the benefit. It was an equalization of economic differences. You rejected the idea, but you took over the idea of the 13th pension. This idea was reported in autumn 2017 in Łódź by Grzegorz Schetyna. It is a pity that you do not take over it in a skillful way, because it served to activate 60+ people with experience, competence, skills that make employers great employees. Tell me, which reasonable government can afford to give up the silver economy? Which reasonable government? The answer to this question is not difficult. One more thing: on the occasion of this law, you are destroying the system of three divisions of power in Poland. It would seem impossible, but it's possible. You've already set foot in court. [[Oh, dear.]] You are able to carry this out through the next phase, but dismantleing Parliament's government control is already a higher driving school. The Seym is bothering you. There are debates here, Members want something, they demand something. This is extremely uncomfortable, and since the adoption of this law, the Minister of Finance will be able to move money between departments, chapters, paragraphs without the permission of Members and the Sejm. He'll be able to do it in the privacy of his office, quietly, without a seymour nerve. What is the real purpose of this witness? It's a one-time thing. In May, money will enter the account, and in May there are also Euro elections. The question is rhetorical and the answer is very simple. It exposes the cynicism of the rulers and offends the intelligence of voters. After all, we will support the project. We believe that unlike your Pisiewicz, Misiewicz, the foundation does not know why named national ministers, who have been awarded great prizes... [[Gawłowski.]] ...our pensioners and rencistoms, this money simply belongs to them. [[Applause]] [[Greetings to Gawłowski.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u11	I would now like to ask the floor of Agnieszka Chasing, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u12	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz club15 on the government's draft one-off money delivery bill for pensioners in 2019 from print no. 3311. Prime Minister! I will not describe this witness with the names that have been quoted here. I'm gonna call it what it sounds like. This is social security. And so it should be in the title: social security. It is difficult not to support a project that is aimed at the poorest group, because a group of pensioners, pensioners, is a group that is really the poorest, has the lowest benefits, few are the most disadvantaged. These are the people who have worked for 30 and 40 years for their pensions. You put it well: a group that deserves a decent life and a decent witness. The fact that they have lived this way and have such benefits, very often below the poverty line, is humiliation, I agree, but please tell me if it is not humiliating to give them a single social benefit after these 30 That, too, is humiliating, Prime Minister, indeed, because these people deserve a steady increase in income because they have already earned it. At the same time, it is a lie to humiliate them by taxing them on these lowest pensions. We're taking 3,000 from them. To give them $1,000. zł, so it's just a fraud, because they've already paid the tax on it once, they've already paid the contributions once, and they just deserve it all. [[That's not true.]] We propose here, we have done this many times, solutions that will actually eliminate this humiliation, will eliminate this problem. There are three simple options to choose from: either we raise the tax-free amount and then each month will have 300 and 400 PLN in his pocket, or let's reduce PIT to 10%, which will give the same effect: the pensioner, the pensioner will have 300 and 400 PLN in his pocket, or at all let us abolish the taxation of pensions, especially the lowest ones. In that case, the 3,000. They'll stay in their pockets. After all, these are simple solutions that will not be conditional. It's not gonna be a social benefit. It's just gonna be what's rightfully theirs. Why cannot such reforms be implemented? Prime Minister! Law and Justice has absolute power, has the opportunity to reform the state. You take this money from the labor fund. Good, because this Labour Fund is mis-used. Nobody's reports say that employment offices are the most inefficient institution, 12 billion a year, and there are no results. NIK confirms it. In addition, many EU funds are being used there. Why don't you make a major reform, save that money, and just give us a permanent benefit from that money? I would like to mention that when it comes to this group for which a benefit from the Labour Fund could be paid, you leave out one important group. And that's unfair, because you're ignoring the group that has the Constitutional Court judgment, the group of guardians of adult disabled people. These are people who also cannot go to work and have less than 600 PLN for their living. In the case of this benefit, neither does this group. It is enough that they are left out when it comes to the execution of a judgment, only that they do not have funds in the form of a pension or a pension for their lives, you do not yet give them this benefit. You've forgotten about this group. This is the poorest group. My question is: Why? My question is also whether the next generations, generations that have already been cheated several times, my generation, generations of working people, generations that have been taken from OFE funds, will each time receive such a benefit, will not have a decent pension, but will have to ask for this benefit and wonder who will vote for, who will give it to them. This is in a sense economic violence, Prime Minister, because it is forcing certain decisions that should be free, aware, that I will not have on bread, really. This may be a simple analogy, but that's what it looks like. Please, Prime Minister, start thinking about major reforms. We're talking about pensions. We have been waiting three years for a reform of the ruling system. That's where the money goes. It's really not for people with disabilities. You're saying you're giving [[♪ The bell ♪]] Helping people with disabilities...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u13	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u14	...and you take the money, for example. in the therapeutic classrooms. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u15	I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Urszula Pasławska, PSL - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u16	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! We folks don't need to be persuaded to support billing to support a family to support pensioners. [[Us, the CODE?]] And I'm just wondering if you're just ashamed that for almost four years you've done nothing but lie to them because there were supposed to be free pills for seniors. [[And who raised their age?]] Marshal, I can't speak. Mr Tarczyński seems to have a great need for activity. You will have your time and you will be able to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, this is my request to all of you. [[Yes, I have a need for these lies.]] Mr President, my request to all of you to move the talks into the crouches. Nobody bothered anyone, and I'm asking you to keep it that way.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u18	Back to free medicines for seniors: there are no and there were no free medicines for seniors. I don't know if you realize that over the last four years, it has been the seniors who have been the social group in which poverty has increased the most. 2 million seniors live below the poverty line. 2 million seniors. But I'm going back to the project we're discussing right now. A good project is a predictable project, this is a systematic project. The Polish People's Party, as I have announced, will support this initiative, but it is worth considering the amendments and solutions we propose regarding cyclicality. Why should retired people pay for not having an election next year? Will the cost of living be lower next year? I think if the trend continues, the cost of living will be even higher. Another thing: a good project, a smart project, that is also one that provides for valorisation and progressiveness, so we will also ask that the allowance, which is called the thirteenth pension, grow in line with the valorisation rate. Speaking of which, I will also address the Prime Minister in connection with his speech: How is it possible that at a time when our economy is supposed to be on 5th and 6th courses, you spend 2 billion less on valorisation than at the time when Kosiniak-Kamish was Minister of Labour? Between 2016 and 2019 you spent less than PLN 18 billion on valorization, and in our time it was almost PLN 20 billion. The next thing you know, it's a lie about the amount. You say the retirees will get 1100 PLN each. [[Voice from the room: Gross!]] Meanwhile, on the one hand you are talking about 1100 PLN, on the other hand the government is already counting on how much money it will save. It's just cheating. Therefore, we will also request that this amount be exempt from tax. We have been talking about the non-tax pension initiative for 3 years now, and there has been an appropriate bill on this issue. First in the parliamentary version, later as a civic project - you are supposed to respect civic projects - and it is worth really getting back to this discussion. Speaking of civic projects, I would also like to draw attention to the citizens' project on the addition of voluntary firefighters to pensioners. Finally, we should, when we say, check, accept this project to process. More than 100,000 were deposited under it. Signatures, firefighters at every firefighter's meeting ask what's going on with him, and you put him in the freezer. To conclude, PSL will support this law, but we also expect support for our pension initiative without tax. Retired people do not expect any charity, no grace, they expect dignity and a decent retirement. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u19	I would now like to ask the floor of Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u20	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Hungry pensions in Poland are already a very serious problem. I've talked about this problem over and over again, observing the various movements of your ruling crew. It's already 300,000. Seniors live at the limit of minimum existence and this is the hard data of the 2017 CSO on poverty. We live in a time when the cost of living is rising dramatically, the cost of food is more expensive, we pay more for housing, and seniors have additional problems. They get sick and have to spend on drugs that were supposed to be free of charge. I confirm, Madame, that they are not. What do seniors do to have drugs and rehabilitation? They're just in debt. Retirement grows symbolically for this. The biggest problem of this project is that it is not a system solution that in any way solves today's difficult situation of seniors. [[Applause]] Next problem: Retired people die waiting in line for surgery. County hospitals are at risk of bankruptcy today, and the government does not notice this problem at all. 888 PLN will not save the health system. It won't make the doctors more, the queues will be shorter, and the appointments will be quicker. 888 PLN will allow for at most two or three private visits. The question is, what's next? 888 PLN will allow you to buy medicine for a while, but in 2 and 3 months the problem will return. In Poland there are also care services for the elderly in bad condition. It follows from the findings of NIK - the Minister should know this data - that every fifth municipality does not provide care to older people in its place of residence, although this is a responsibility of the municipality. But the municipalities just don't have the money to do it because you've dropped health care and education on them. [[Voice from the room: It's always been like this.]] On a national scale, only 1% of home care is provided persons over 60 years of age. It is also extremely difficult to get into day-to-day nursing homes, only one in ten communes leads them. Many seniors receive a minimum pension. This figure will increase strongly in the coming years. The situation of this group is indeed bad. The minimum pension in 2019 amounted to PLN 935. However, the minimum social for a single-person pensioner is PLN 1132, or PLN 200 more. If you actually came to the conclusion that seniors needed support, you would simply organize a higher revalorisation of benefits. But this decision wouldn't have as much damage as a one-off supply of retirement wallets. From what? Before the vote in the elections to the European Parliament. You do not want to improve the situation of seniors, because if you wanted to, you would simply raise the minimum pension to 1,300 PLN, so that the situation of pensioners would simply improve. This would even be cheaper than a 13th pension and more effective. But that way you wouldn't buy the voter's vote. I have a question: Why Jarosław Kaczyński's 13th pension? Thanks to hard-working entrepreneurs and self-employed people, because they're gonna throw themselves in the 13th, have a pension, have a parliamentary salary, and now he's gonna get a 13th. I hope he spends it on a charity cause I can't imagine him putting it in his own pocket. [[The Polish flag for Meysztowicz.]] Retirement in Poland is low and will be low. The problem is demographics. Minister, have you stopped fighting this problem? What about fighting for Polish demography and children of Polish families? You don't have any effect on this case. 888 PLN is a one-time payment that does not solve the problems of pensioners. It's just an election stunt. What about support for people with disabilities? What about the teacher's raises? What about systemic improvement in health care? You do not want to solve any problems in Poland, you only want to ensure that you are re-elected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Winnicki, Confederation, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In Poland there are millions of pensioners who receive scandalously low benefits - pensioners, pensioners - there are also hundreds of thousands of those who receive quite good benefits, and they will also receive this support. It's support that's actually gonna help. This support, which is of course a very cheap electoral sausage translated by this government from one citizen's pocket to another pocket. This support, this assistance that you are giving immediately before the elections to the European Parliament, is a testimony to the failure of any systemic reform over the last three years. For the last 3 years, almost 4, when you rule, unfortunately the truth is that the least earner in Poland pays proportionally more taxes than the wealthy. And that's the truth of your rule. Because you haven't undertaken any systemic tax reform, you haven't decided to raise the thresholds, you haven't decided to raise the tax-free amount, you haven't decided on any systemic reform, and worst of all, you haven't reformed the pension system in any way. Today, you are transferring from one pocket to a Polish taxpayer, a Polish pensioner who is paid out of taxes, a one-off allowance, to his other pocket. But the truth is that an issue that should be addressed by any serious government that should occupy every serious, responsible authority is not this type of accounting transfers, it is not such a game of election sausage, the cheapest possible. It doesn't cost you anything. It costs you, it costs the citizens. You're not the ones who find the money. You're not the ones who find money in your own pockets. You find this money in the pockets of your citizens. Today, the issue that should concern you is the real reform of the pension system. It is a matter of failure of this system, as you know very well, but you accept the principle: after us, even the flood. You're adopting a rule that makes you, instead of answering the question of what's gonna happen to retirement in 10 years, you're doing an election promise festival today. And this is a question, this is something that a serious, responsible government should take care of -- not the mummy of people, that it gives them something extra, because it doesn't give them, because it takes them out of their pockets and puts them in the other one, just the answer to the question of whether they'll be paid pensions in 10 years' time, because this system that you're preserving, fixing... You haven't changed a thing about taxes. You have not changed anything when it comes to attracting millions of Poles to Poland, young and middle-aged, who left Poland in the last 10-15 years. You did not create better conditions for business, so that young Poles from the Islands would even come back here, settle down, work for these pensions. You pull it out of one pocket, you put it in the other pocket. Unfortunately, democracy ends when the government starts bribing citizens with their own money. And that's the situation. And that's the problem. It is a problem that you do not answer any systemic issue that is in Poland today. The question is, in 10 years' time, will the pension be paid at all, and it's not whether to give one or another election sausage. [[Applause]] [[The presidency includes Deputy Marshal of the Seym Beata Mazurek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u23	Mr Richard Petru will speak, now! [[Rysiek, do you have a name today?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u24	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! You want to make beggars out of Poles with this bill. Why else would you call a one-time charity dropped two weeks before the election? No society has ever been rich on benefits. Today we are facing a civilizational choice: Poland on benefits or Poland working, Poland social or Poland liberal. You don't want to help the pensioners with this bill, you just want to set a trap for the opposition - if he backs you up, your success, and if he doesn't back you up, you're going to attack him against the people. I'm already saying, "I'm against this bill. My voice is the voice of hundreds of thousands of Poles... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Two MPs, I think!]] ...who work hard, save money and don't have to receive benefits from you. If you're gonna cheat someone, you're gonna give them a present, not a raise. If you wanted to improve the retirement situation, you'd give a raise instead of a 13 and a raise would be permanent, you wouldn't be able to get out of it. Instead of one 13th pension, you could offer a monthly increase of 91 PLN. I will make such an amendment to verify the intentions of the PiS, whether you want to improve the situation of pensioners permanently, whether you only want to buy their votes, and I expect the entire High House, and especially the opposition, to support this amendment. Ladies and gentlemen! In Łódź, when I was collecting signatures under the Trade Ban Act on Sunday, Mrs. Zofia, retired, came to me and said that it was a scandal that for so many years she had not been thought of, and now, just before the election, she is to receive a thirteen to then pat poverty. She also said that of course she would take the money and vote against the PiS. [[Joy in the Chamber]] And this is an appeal to all pensioners. You think you can buy votes, you think you can buy loyalty, you can buy rules, honor. Dear pensioners, the PiS, introducing their 13th pension just before the election, simply wants to buy your votes... [[The voice from the hall: He hurts you!]] ...because PiS is fully aware, Prime Minister Morawiecki is also aware that this is a one-time gift. Ladies and gentlemen - I address Polish pensioners - do not be bought for one-time charity. Dear teachers, the cost of this 13 is almost PLN 11 billion, and the cost of your raises is 8.4. Did you know that for this thirteen each of you teachers could get a thousand zloty raise today? What does Prime Minister Morawiecki say? He says he doesn't have one for you. Why? Because teachers don't vote for piss. Keep up the good work. Has anyone ever paid you 13? Dear entrepreneurs, has anyone ever taken care of you in this way? What will the 13th pension be financed out of? From the contributions of hard-working Poles and from the funds allocated to combating unemployment. Instead of encouraging Poles to entrepreneurship, activity, and savings, PiS pursues politics: after us even the flood. Ladies and gentlemen, difficult times are about to come. Many politicians in the world believed that the economy would last forever. Mr Morawiecki, President of the Bank, remembers: this was the case in 2007 in England, it was the case in the UK, it was in Ireland, Greece, and then there was a crash. You have to learn from history. And you're focused. Only at the next election. Your thinking is simple: if you win the election, you will withdraw from some of these programs, and if the opposition wins, let her worry. Anyone who votes in favour of Kaczyński's election five today will take full responsibility for the ruins of public finances. [[Voice from the room: Don't scare.]] Anyone who puts party discipline above the welfare of their country will have on everyone's conscience... [[Blackmail.]] ...who will suffer as a result of the collapse of public finances. [[Voice from the room: Who writes this to you?]] High Izbo! Everyone, introducing such expensive social programmes, should indicate the sources of funding. Prime Minister, what taxes will you raise in order to finance the election five of Kaczyński? Are you gonna make the final jump on the OFE, or are you gonna screw up the businessman's screw again? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[The platform made a jump on OFE, with PSL.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u25	Mr, on the subject.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u26	Are you going to start saving money at hospitals, schools, national defenses? Vote for expenses from the election five of Kaczyński without indicating how it is to be financed, it's like driving on a full gas road that ends with a wall. And anyone who rules after you and after the fall elections will collide with this wall. Therefore, in the name of responsibility for the Republic, I request that this project be rejected at first reading. In the name of the password: Poland development, not: Poland on benefits. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u27	Please take the floor of Mr Robert Majka, who is not associated.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u28	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! Mr Richard Petru spoke before me, Leszek Balcerowicz's assistant many years ago. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: The subject was meant to be.]] To me, it's just a scandal. The man who supported Leszek Balcerowicz, who led to the economic tragedy in the country... [[It's Kaczynski.]] ...he did not submit a report on the state of the Polish state under the rule of the People's Poland, today he dares to accuse Law and Justice that he wants to give to pensioners, in short, a one-time hunger allowance, but unfortunately so. [[♪ Move, joy in the hall ♪]] [[Voice from the room: Why?]] I know that the Civic Platform, people so-called. The licensed left laughs at the fact that in the past they supported Leszek Balcerowicz and the Union of Freedom, and later the Civic Platform, as it is today. And the question to Mr Mateusz Morawiecki: When will you announce a report on the state of the Polish state in 1989 and 2018? From this report Poles should learn about the achievements of Leszek Balcerowicz, the achievements of a man who was supported by Mr Richard Petru. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Only then would we know what reality is like in Poland. And in conclusion... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I didn't interrupt you. Don't interrupt me. Politics isn't for nervous people, you have to take politics calmly. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Prime Minister! I would also like to ask you to comment on the following point. Namely, I did not receive an answer to my interpellation on matters related to the state report. Minister Łukasz Schreiber gave me an answer, but I must say that for me this is an incomplete answer so as not to say weird. If I had written such a letter working at the Przemyśl City Office, the president would have fired me. This is unacceptable to me. I would very much ask for a clear answer. And one last thing. What I'm about to say is very important. Ladies and gentlemen, we are on the eve of the implementation of the JUST Act for $300 billion. I would like Prime Minister Morawiecki to make a clear comment on my interpellation on this matter, whether it will be implemented, because the answers I obtain from the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Mr Piotr Wawrzyk, in my opinion, are quite obscuring the picture. On the one hand, he says that this bill will not be implemented, on the other hand he says it will. It's unclear and obscuring the image. It is also important to me, Prime Minister, whether this 800 PLN or 1000 PLN is not the cost of buying future voters in connection with the implementation of the JUST law for the amount of $300 billion. Why am I talking about this? Because the cost of these financial operations today, in my opinion, is within $10 billion, which, compared to the cost of $330 billion, is a drop in the sea. And here organisations referring to the Holocaust, which are demanding unlawful compensation, may wish to claim in this matter that future voters, so to speak, will choose one, not another, to the future parliament, because, as Minister Schreiber says in his reply, will be prepared projects that will facilitate the implementation of the JUST Act for the amount of more than 300 billion US dollars. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u29	Thank you. The Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Ms Elżbieta Rafalska, asked for the floor. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u30	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Today we are having a serious debate about 10 million pensioners, people who really deserved, people who worked hard for Poland, and you - I am speaking here to the opposition - can not forget about political wars for even a moment and you are even conducting such a war under such a law. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[It was the Prime Minister who started it.]] Forget about this political division for a moment, rise a little above these divisions. Pensioners and pensioners do not only live in elections to parliament, although you, the European Coalition, are only living in them. There's still real life beyond this House. [[Game in the hall, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, I have a call for you... Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy Elżbieta Rafalska: I'll start, ladies and gentlemen... Minister, wait a minute. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a request for you, especially against the opposition. Easy... Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy Elżbieta Rafalska: I'm gonna start by saying... Minister, wait a minute. We listened calmly to your speeches. If the issues of pensioners and pensioners are of such importance to you, please also listen calmly to the Minister's comments and move the talks into cockroaches. [[Voice from the hall: But you are to yourself, not to us...]] You're welcome. Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy Elżbieta Rafalska: Ladies and gentlemen, I'm gonna start with the PSL issue because this is a serious charge. PSL wants to know if we're ashamed. It's about the PSL, which, in spite of everything, raised the retirement age. Do you have the nerve to ask that? You're the ones who raised the retirement age. [[Applause]] [[Remember.]] We've restored the previous retirement age. Ladies and gentlemen, maybe you need to refresh your memory a little bit. [[Yes, sir.]] Article from 2012... From 1 January 2013, the retirement age will be increased by one month on a quarterly basis. In the end, both women and men will work until they are 67 years of age. The new rules will cover not only employees or company owners, but also farms. This needs to be reminded to Poles, because maybe some have forgotten that we have restored the previous retirement age. And now, ladies and gentlemen, about this shame: Before you hit someone, you need to seriously consider and know if you have any arguments to attack like this. Ladies and gentlemen, raising the retirement age - I did not write it - will not bring big financial benefits to farmers. An increase in the insurance internship by an additional year due to longer working life will result in an increase of the basic pension by PLN 3.64. [[Shame.]] [[Voice from the room: Unbelievable.]] [[Scandal!]] And today you say that the monthly valorization of 70 zlotys is low? And you're telling us about shame? In practice, after raising the retirement age, a person active for an additional 7 years will receive a higher benefit of PLN 25, namely 49 years and 7 years. And we're talking about valorization, which raises 70 zł monthly benefit. [[Voice from the room: Minimum.]] This right will be granted only to those who - all the time it is about your project, maybe you do not remember it - will meet all the statutory requirements by 31 December 2017. They must therefore be 55 years old in the case of women or 60 years in the case of men, be covered by KRUS for 30 years and cease their agricultural activities. It will be most difficult for farmers to meet the internship requirement due to the fact that contributions, premiums from the general scheme, i.e. contributions paid to the Social Security Office, will not be added to the period of agricultural insurance. [[Dyspnoea!]] It was you who offered these solutions to farmers, and today you are going out and asking if we are ashamed of what we are doing for the elderly. Member of the club said: "You have done nothing for the elderly. You didn't do anything. [[Mrs Pasławska has escaped.]] Ladies and gentlemen, maybe I can answer that now. For the first time, a strategy paper on social policy towards the elderly was drawn up for the years 2018 to 2030. There was no such document before. We have increased the minimum pension amount from PLN 882 to PLN 1000 in one year, raising the lowest pension pension by 13%. We were the ones who introduced pension allowances, one-off allowances in 2016, which, please, are not a new solution for this House, because this solution has been repeatedly applied. How hypocritical is it, then, to say that a one - time witness humiliates someone? [[Applause]] It's amazing. This is extraordinary because most of the colleagues I see here are in this House for another term. Now we are talking about politics, ladies and gentlemen, addressed to the elderly. We have such programs, which have never been before, about funding specialized services, caring services, tasks which the local government should carry out and should carry out, because these are its own tasks. But we are preparing the program because we know that when it comes to what the government does not do, we can, through funding, inspire to take such action. There were words from this speaker about issues related to weak policies implemented by municipalities. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the minimum of knowledge we need to have here, too. There are some tasks, own tasks, for which the local government is responsible, which is involved in taxes and which has to carry out many services, including social ones, and not only take care of the elements that will bring them glory during the election campaign. So these are also remarks to self-government. Ladies and gentlemen, what else is the policy of expanding the day's residence, if not supporting the actions of the local government? In 2015, there were 100 houses. We've introduced a new formula for the dayclub, and we have these facilities. Today 500, and next year there will be even more. We're talking about valorization, ladies and gentlemen. You spoke of valorisation. Amount valorisation - 71 PLN, cost of valorization in 2012 - 7200 million PLN, and in 2019 cost of valorization - 7900 million PLN. I have, ladies and gentlemen, hard data. [[Applause]] Don't lie to those real and real data. [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard here various, offensive terms for pensioners: charity, tribute... [[Craps.]] ...scoops, welfare benefits. Ladies and gentlemen, those who have spoken of this know very well that social assistance is a limited income benefit. There's no limit here. Here everyone who receives a benefit receives it without income. So it's absolutely not social welfare. You were talking about a tax-free amount. So what, the Civic Platform raised the tax-free amount or the Law and Justice amount to 8,000. Evil? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voices from the room: Lying!]] There was a question, ladies and gentlemen, about the guardians of the disabled. The criterion, ladies and gentlemen, is that you have to be a pensioner or a pensioner. And if someone is the caretaker of a disabled person and is a pensioner, they will receive this benefit, ladies and gentlemen. [[Voice from the room: That's ignorance on their part.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we were also talking about senior policy, we were talking about valorisation, about raising the minimum pension benefit. The benefits introduced from 1 March, maternity pensions, parental supplementary benefits are also a solution that sometimes goes to 90-year-old mothers who have lived through this period without any benefit, [[Applause]] without any security from the state budget. What are we talking about? And I hear we didn't do anything for the elderly. Ladies and gentlemen, this idea of a tax-free pension. Member, what do you propose? Retirement without tax is 1100 PLN. And now, if we free it from tax, the one who has 1100 PLN will benefit 198 PLN, but the one who has 3000 PLN pension will benefit 540 PLN. This is your justice, this is your solution. [[Applause]] This is the same thing as when it comes to valorization. This is the answer to the question: liberal Poland or solidarity Poland? [[Applause]] [[Exactly.]] Mr Petru, solidarity, certainly not liberal. We've already experienced that. You have to have... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Quiet.]] I must say clearly: you really need a lot of courage to make such a proposal, a motion for rejection. I suggest you don't do groceries anytime soon, 'cause you might hear some tough words. I'm really sorry. Really. [[Applause]] [[That's nerve. The nerve...]] [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to the things we've done. We raise the tax-free amount, lower the PIT, take the money from the Labour Fund. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think anything is real here either. The Labour Fund, where benefits and pre-retirement benefits are paid, is the normal source of funding for this expenditure. That is also the purpose of this fund. So that's absolutely it. Giving someone a one-off benefit that allows people to solve sometimes issues related to arrears, rent, water, maybe other expenses, and calling it economic violence is some kind of newest definition that doesn't fit into any framework. Ladies and gentlemen, there's no way to explain this either. Ladies and gentlemen, a good project should provide for the benefit to be valued. After all, we introduced this valorization this year. 7 million pensioners have benefited from the value of the quota. Those pensioners who received this benefit in the amount of more than PLN 2400 had a higher value than that resulting from the value of the quota, the others had a higher value than that of PLN 70. So we added extra money to this system. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we say this: but this benefit will only be given to those who have a pension or the decisions of the KRUS, the Social Security Office or the relevant pension establishments by 30 April. But for God's sake, who's gonna get it? You want to get it, though you haven't reached your retirement age? Some criteria need to be applied. [[Applause]] Who can you give it to? When there were pension allowances, did we give those pension allowances to those who would get their pension in one year's time, or to those who were granted it, have they already been given a decision? And when were the pension allowances paid, ladies and gentlemen? After all, they were paid in March most often when the valorization was carried out. You are all associated with one European Parliament elections, but outside the European Parliament elections [[♪ The bell ♪]] In May there are communions, there are weddings, people do renovations, people shop... [[Life.]] ...people have grandchildren, they have normal lives, they have names, they have birthdays, they need money. [[Applause]] And come on, vote for it. I appeal to Mr Petru: a moment of reflection, reflection, perhaps it would be good to withdraw this proposal, because I feel that it is not entirely thought out, Mr President. I'm worried. [[Applause]] [[About naivety...]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Thank you very much. Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of you like to join the list of people asking questions? [[Corrigendum.]] But what do you want... [[Voice out of the O.R.: Cancel the motion.]] Please. Corrigendum, Mr Petru. [[I think he's going to withdraw his application.]] Mr President, if you go beyond decency, I will turn your microphone off.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u32	Minister, I did not say: Poland solidarity or liberal. I said: Polish social or liberal, i.e. Poland on benefits or Poland on jobs. And I have a question: why don't you have a finance minister with you and what's this money gonna be, what's this 13 gonna be financed out of? And why isn't there a... [[The Vice Marshal shuts down the microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u33	However, that was not a corrigendum, sir. Let's move on to asking questions. Mr Paweł Rychlik, Law and Justice, is the first question to be asked. One minute to ask questions. Is Mr Paweł Rychlik here? There isn't. In that case, Mrs Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłocka, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u34	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! First of all, Prime Minister: Why do you miss the truth? What is given will not be taken. I speak for the Civic Platform. [[Applause]] The 13th pension was the idea of the Civic Platform. This was mentioned by Grzegorz Schetyna in 2017. PiS liked the idea, so he treated it like his own. You're running out of ideas, so you're perverting other people's ideas and giving them a one-time paycheck, and that's before the election. I would like to ask you about the sources of funding, specifically the Labour Fund. The Labour Fund is a special-purpose fund, it is in a sense a tax paid by employers, and the amount of the contribution is determined by the budget law. What are the objectives of the Labour Fund? To make it easier: the definition of the Labour Fund and its purpose can be found [[♪ The bell ♪]] On... [[Applause]] [[The Vice Marshal shuts down the microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u35	Thank you, Member. I would ask you to ask Mr Jerzy Kozłowski, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u36	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The fact that pensioners have embarrassingly low benefits in Poland is obvious. Many of them live in poverty and will certainly accept this one - time benefit with open hands. But, Prime Minister, you were talking about justice. And now: I have a PIT teacher in my hand, who is collected by the state from its low, unfair provision of 1800 PLN per year. Please tell me: Wouldn't it be fair to radically increase the amount of the free amount so that those who have such low benefits do not have to pay 1800 zł tax in return for a single amount of 880 net, and isn't it the fairest increase in the amount of the free amount for such persons to be entirely exempt from taxes? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u37	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, PSL - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u38	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The question to the Prime Minister: What treatment have you given yourself, Prime Minister, that in such a short time...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u39	Mr Kasprzak, I am very sorry, but you seem not to be Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[I'm the one.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u40	I didn't know I had a double. Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! The Prime Minister here has told the truth. Retired people live badly every month, there's spending every month. So the question is: Why is there no such additions every month? Many pensioners on this salary would be entitled to this allowance every month. There is a proposal from the civil committee, which I am a proxy for abolishing the pension tax. 89% Retirement and pensioners, asked: what solution do you prefer, are in favour of abolishing the tax. This is a comprehensive solution that regulates... economical, by the way, economical, because you avoid billing, and gives you a lasting prospect of increasing the benefits of pensioners and pensioners. Because the fact that we're gonna give in May... And the question is what's gonna happen in September. There are weddings, and there are names, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's also a birthday... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u41	Thank you, sir. Now please, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u42	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I'll repeat my question. [[Falstart.]] How did you do that, Prime Minister, so quickly you turned from liberal to socialist? You said the Platform hasn't done anything for pensioners in eight years. Maybe she didn't do anything because you advised her. I hear that this 888 zloty is a gift from Mr. Jarosław Kaczyński, so I'm asking. I didn't hear on the President's videos with his business partner that the profits from the towers would go to the pension fund. If this is going to be a gift, maybe Mr. Jarosław Kaczyński would hand over his funds. [[Is that supposed to be funny?]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a system solution. A systemic solution would be to increase the tax-free amount. Those who have the lowest pension would benefit the most. And the question is, will PLN 888 save someone's life? I don't think so. On the other hand, money, these billions for health care, can make these retirees look forward to the surgery they've been waiting for years to come. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u43	The question is asked by Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Now!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u44	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Dear Messenger! Richard Petru and I got the answer to the question you asked about the source of funding for these projects that you called A+. What's the answer? Every question we've been asked has been answered, and I quote that there's work to be done to find the money for it right now. We also got an answer that, at the moment, I quote, it's far too early to analyze and find money. This answer to our interpellation is a writing of truth, a writing of truth confirmed by the Ministry of Finance. First you said you would, and now you're looking for money. And that, Prime Minister, is the height of hypocrisy and hypocrisy. Tell me where you really want to take that money that you didn't include in the budget that we voted for a month and a half ago. It's deluded and hypocritical. [[You should have worked better on the budget, then you'd know.]] And here's a document from your ministry.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u45	The question will be asked by Catherine Czochar, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u46	Prime Minister! Minister! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Listening to Mr Petru's comments on the government's actions in the context of economic development, I have the impression that its shortcomings, as far as basic knowledge is concerned, may look like the universe - they are infinite. But I'm going back to my 13th pension. Minister, is this law that we are currently discussing secure issues concerning the impact on the entitlement of applicants for benefits, benefits, assistance or support, [[♪ The bell ♪]] e.g. Rehabilitation relief? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u47	Thank you very much, Member. The question is asked by Mrs Joann Frydrych, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u48	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Minister! The 13th pension was the idea of Grzegorz Schetin announced at the convention more than six months ago. Yes, Prime Minister, it was Gregory Schetin's idea. The PiS government doesn't have an idea to solve senior problems and steals ideas from the Civic Platform for the first time. Grzegorz Schetin's 13th pension is a system solution that really supports pensioners. Your pension+ is a one-time paycheck. Only in the election year. Let us be clear, my fellow Members, that you do not provide for this benefit for the following years, because this is the provision in the Act that only for 2019. The Prime Minister recently said that the project would improve the quality of life, but for how long, Prime Minister? Just for one month? [[Voice from the O.R.: For a year.]] Prime Minister, when will you stop lying? I would like to stress that what is granted will remain, will not be received. And I'm saying it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] on behalf of the Civic Platform. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u49	I would like to ask Mr Łukasz Rzepecki, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u50	Dear Marshal! Dear Prime Minister, Prime Minister, from this point on, I would like to thank the Prime Minister very much for this project. This project is a very important project that supports the environment of pensioners and pensioners, declares its readiness to act in favour of this project and to promote the good solutions that serve the people of our country, in this case pensioners and pensioners. But I have a specific question for you, Prime Minister: will this project also apply in the coming years? We as Kukiz.15 speak clearly and clearly that this project is a good project, but it should also be spread over the coming years, and it should be clear to the government today that it will not apply only in 2019, but this aid to pensioners will also be in subsequent years. And the other thing. As the Prime Minister knows, food prices, drug prices also go up from month to month. Therefore, I have an appeal to lean on the pension project without tax, so that [[♪ The bell ♪]] The lowest ones... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u51	Thank you, sir. I would ask you to ask Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, PSL - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u52	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Dear Prime Minister, You spoke with such concern about pensioners and pensioners, but unfortunately these words have nothing to do with the serious treatment of this social group. Since 2017, there has been a citizens' bill in the Sejm, supported by more than 100,000. signatures, a supplement to the retirement pension for volunteer firefighters. Volunteer firefighters ask at each meeting whether and when they will receive an allowance for retirement. Unfortunately, it is 2019 and nothing is happening until today. That's the best way to prove how incredibly you treat retired people. So my question is, when are you going to work on this project and do volunteer firefighters finally have a chance to get an allowance for their very low retirement, because volunteer firefighters are most often retired farmers? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u53	Thank you. The question is asked by Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Marshal! We are dealing with a situation in which you owe Poland in economic times. That's what stupid governments do. Wise governments save money when it's economical and debt when it's a crisis, because then you have to have some cushion for higher payouts, for example for the unemployed. On the other hand, I have the impression that this 13th pension does not settle anything, it is not a systemic solution - neither in health care for pensioners, nor in social care for pensioners, nor in other issues related, e.g. With the drugs for the gold. What you're doing is like you decided to go to the carnival in Rio in a minute. Right now, we're gonna be in debt, they're gonna vote for us in elections, and then they're gonna vote for us in the flood. On the other hand, the question is: I wanted to ask whether this is why it is called the five Kaczyński, that Mr Jarosław Kaczyński will also benefit from it despite the high pension and salary of the Member. 'Cause if you help, I guess it's for those who really need it, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I don't... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...all of it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u55	The question is now asked by Mr Krzysztof Truskolas, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u56	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is clear that pensioners and pensioners need a comprehensive aid programme that will improve their daily life in the long term. And we're gonna run this program. Many times during this term of office, the opposition submitted proposals for reducing laws, e.g. the costs of medicines or the removal of taxes on pensions. You all voted out unanimously. So it looks like you're concerned about seniors. This one-off cash benefit is a drop in the sea of the needs of pensioners. Suddenly, during the election campaign, you woke up to help pensioners. And what have you done over the last three and a half years of your reign? [[Voice from the room: 8 years.]] How did you help the seniors? So what is the real purpose of this bill? Helping pensioners who really need this help, or just your campaign? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u57	Mr Rafalski, I don't think you were there during Minister Rafalski's speech, so I am referring you to the transcript. I would like to ask Mr Stefan Romecki, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u58	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Dear Young People at the Gallery! We can talk a lot about pensioners because they deserve it, and it's very good that something's moved on. Couldn't this tribute, 13 for pensioners, be introduced not only once, but so that pensioners can get this injection every year? Because the amount of tax-free government doesn't want to enter, and then the retirees would have more profit all year round. I will remind you of what I have said many times before, so that we do not tax pensions again, because every professional pensioner pays tax. Such a one-time tribute in the election year is misconstrued, and I will remind you, Kukiz15 finances itself out of his pocket. Why is 13 for all, without division, for pensioners with small pensions who are fighting for survival, but also for those with high pensions? Of course, I will support this thirteen for our parents, our grandparents, because they deserve it because they deserve it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They're waiting for it, and they need to be taken care of... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u59	Thank you, sir. I ask you to ask Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, the Modern Club. Thank you very much, sir. Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u60	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! This is a horror movie, what's going on here. President Kaczyński has a policy of contempt. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u61	Mr Kaczyński, we are considering the 13th pension point, not President Kaczyński's. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I'm entitled because I'm a marshal, so either to the point or thank you. Speak to the point. I know what I'm here for. Please, get to the point.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u62	I haven't said a word yet. You don't know what I'm trying to say...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u63	You need to get to the point. [[Voice from the room: Censor!]] [[The Vice Marshal turns on the microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u64	Well, President Kaczyński has a policy of contempt, a policy of humiliation of wronged and humiliated pensioners and pensioners. Prime Minister! Minister! What are the limits of your political consensus and the lack of respect for voters? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u65	The question is now asked by Mr Michael Szczerba, PO-KO. There isn't. Excuse me, Mr Michał Cieślak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u66	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Seym! Since the beginning of this term, many pensioners, pensioners, have been reporting to my parliamentary office and are telling me how difficult their living situation is and how many problems they face in their lives in terms of the benefits they receive in terms of their daily costs. This is a very good pension+ solution, which will make it much easier for them to function, because there will be financial resources that meet the expectations or cover the costs they have to bear. My question, Minister: Will the valorisation of this 13th pension next year, if our economy develops with the same strength as today, be taken into account on the basis of inflation, percentage or quota? I really want that answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u67	Thank you. And the question is asked by Michał Szczerba, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u68	High Izbo! Minister! It's easy to steal the name of the competition project, it's harder to realize. It was supposed to be a 13th pension, but it's not even a 13th pension anymore. Even today, Prime Minister, you don't use that term. Every pensioner in Poland knows how much his monthly pension is, and this is not a 13th pension. Why not PLN 1100, which means minimum retirement and PLN 888,25? Because exactly a year ago, 224 Members of Law and Justice led by Mrs Rafalska rejected the project: a tax-free pension. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the only benefit you've received from pensioners for four years. What will we get if 888.25 PLN is divided into 48 months, or 4 years of your governments? 8.50 PLN per month. [[And what did they get from you? What have they received from you for eight years?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u69	The question is asked by Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u70	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Today's debate is really once again about the pension system. Why do we always do this before the election? Your predecessors jumped the OFE right before the election. And now the question is whether we're pulling a brick out of the wall today and we don't want to build a healthy pension system. Retirement isn't benefits. It's money put aside for old age by working people, it's no mercy. Let's free pensions from the grace of politicians. Let's free it from double taxation because it's money that's been taxed long ago. First of all, let it be passed on systematically every year. And finally, Prime Minister, my compliments from the franchise. Directive 93/13 is still not respected in Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u71	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u72	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Dear Prime Minister, I am surprised that you are not thundering here when some insult Professor Leszek Balcerowicz from this speaker, because you are the beneficiary of these changes. If it weren't for these difficult reforms, you wouldn't have made millions of dollars, you wouldn't have had the opportunity to work in a privatized banking sector and you wouldn't be a fat cat. [[Applause]] So, I'm asking you to respond...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u73	Time is running out, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u74	...because ordinary human decency commands such a reaction. [[I think it's a thank you to the Member.]] I want to address the question to the Minister. The Minister was kind here to say that the State introduced a tax amount, increased the tax-free amount. That is a lie because you have not increased this amount. If you've done something, you've raised it in the case of a group of dozens, maybe tens of thousands of people. Is it true that if you really fulfilled this promise to the end and increased this amount free to 8,000. Evil, that's every... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...would earn at least $1,000 a year. Evil? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u75	Thank you, sir. The question is asked by Mrs Krystyna Wróblewska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u76	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! As vice-president of the Senior Committee, Prime Minister, thank you very much for the programme. Polish pensioners and pensioners thank for this program. My question is: How much will the proposed solution positively affect the material situation of pensioners and pensioners? Will this benefit be paid in 2020 with positive growth forecasts? Remind the opposition what the cost is. support for the senior community by the Government of Law and Justice. Please answer the question: Were similar solutions used in the case of seniors under the PO-PSL regime? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u77	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Elisabeth Stępień, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u78	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! The total cost of the 13th pension is 10.7 billion. As a rule, there is no doubt that pensioners need support, but we also need a change in the health care system. Retired people die in line for doctors. It's a great sin of omission. Poles must wait in line at least 2 weeks longer than previous years. The sad thing is, you didn't do anything before, and before the election, you treat pensioners instrumentally. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u79	The question is asked by Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u80	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Prime Minister, I have a question as to whether it is true that on this maneuver you will earn PLN 2 billion because so much will be levied on these pensioners, a senseless tax. That's one thing. [[In general, taxes are pointless, Mr President.]] Taxes are not pointless, but such taxes are absolutely pointless. Secondly, is it true that if you had the courage to increase the tax-free amount, the pensioners would not have once more 800 PLN, only every year they would have an additional 2 000. Evil? Is that true or not? And the third case. Prime Minister, I have a question for you: What analyses resulted from the fact that in mid-May, accidentally two weeks before the election, you want to carry out this kind of project? Why don't you do that? before May, when money might be more needed? Why don't you do that? Before Easter? Coincidence? I don't think so. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u81	The question is asked by Mrs Teresa Wargock, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u82	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! I would like to address the question to the Minister because, on several occasions, it has been stated from this Seymary that the pension contribution has already been taxed with income tax. I would like to make it clear that this is the first tax to be paid on retirement money. Ladies and gentlemen! One thing comes from the debate: the opposition has a problem. The opposition has a problem because Law and Justice is a credible party, the United Right is credible. [[Applause]] We have kept all our commitments before the 2015 campaign, we have kept all our commitments during our term of office. Ladies and gentlemen! You're not gonna win by making a fuss about the Emerson+. We are fulfilling these demands that we hear in the social debate. And I will say to Mr Petru that my friend, a retired woman, Mrs Halinka, told me in this... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u83	Thank you, Member. Please ask Mr Marcin Święcicki, the PO-KO question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u84	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! You referred to Balcerowicz's plan, Prime Minister. One might ask, Prime Minister, what would be the fate of pensioners today and society as a whole, if not for the Balcerowicz plan, if on the ruins of a bankrupt economy, a failed economy, a staggering economy, would not create a healthy foundation for an economy that is catching up with the most advanced European economies today. [[You're talking about that 30% drop, aren't you? A 30% drop in the standard of living that Balcerowicz isn't responsible for?]] What if there was no plan for Balcerowicz? You don't have such achievements so far, Prime Minister, and I'm sorry to hear you spit on Balcerowicz's plan. I have a second question. In January, we adopted a budget divided into various departments. The state on this show today, which we very much support, this pension, this 13th one, you're not saying where you're gonna get the money for it. Do not public opinion, or the Sejm of the Republic of Poland deserve to know from which departments this money will be taken? Is it from the road department, national defense, health, or something else? We very much ask the Minister to explain to us where you're gonna get the money. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's like... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u85	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask Ms Agnieszka, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u86	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! Economic violence - I will refer to it - is not giving a benefit or a benefit. Those weren't words going in that direction. It's money for life. And I made that very clear. Economic violence is giving someone the one-off money they need to survive and condition it with some kind of action, in this case voting. And that's what I was talking about, that this is a one-off benefit, conditioned in the years to come, that it will rule the Law and Justice. It's a sign of violence. But that won't be right, Minister. And that is my question: in that case, in order not to suspect that you are doing political propaganda, will you support amendment Kukiz15, which says that this will be a permanent witness? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u87	Thank you. The question is asked by Robert Telus, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u88	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! On behalf of thousands of pensioners, I would like to thank you very much. Many pensioners come to the office and thank you very much for this program, thank you for this 13. [[Voice from the room: This is not a program.]] I was lucky to drive around Poland, to meet within the cycle Polish is one with many pensioners who at each meeting said: take care of pensioners. And that's what this is about, which means taking care of pensioners. That's why I thank you very much. And thank you for one more thing. And this is also due to meetings with pensioners. Thank you for this fixed amount, that is not a percentage. Because if it was a percentage, those retired people who make the least money would get pennies, and those retired people who make a lot of money would get a lot of money. And thank you, Prime Minister, that there is no tax reduction here because once again there would be the same situation - those who have 10,000. pensions, they would get a lot, and those who have a small pension would get little. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So thank you for being a constant... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u89	Thank you, sir. The question is asked by Mr Grzegorz July, PO-KO. [[Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, just as you read PiS all the time.]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] You do not teach me, Madam Member. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u90	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! The Civic Platform has long been proposing a solution to the 13th pension. It's already been said a few times here that this is not a 13th pension. We propose a permanent annual pension, and here we have a proposal referring to a somewhat medieval theme of social policy. Namely in the Middle Ages, as the king wanted to be popular, he solved the bag and poured some money out of the walls of his castle. So it's even further than in the Middle Ages, because in these medieval stories it's been given a penny out of its bags, and it wasn't made out of employers' money or the Labor Fund... [[What is it that bothers you in the Middle Ages, sir?]] ...as it is now. That's why my question is, do you really care about the ordinary wire transfer you're proposing before the election? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u91	The question is now asked by Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u92	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! To those Members who pretend that they do not know this, I will remind them that the pension contribution is not taxed. In view of the fact that the pension system is not reformed, I would ask the Minister to remind the Members of the European Coalition of the amount in previous terms despite the opposition of the NSZZ.Solidarity in the Tripartite Commission for Economic and Social Affairs has been taken out of open pension funds to patch the budget. I also ask you to confirm that this law also applies to people who receive social benefits. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u93	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Iwona Krawczyk, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u94	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Seym! I was going to say that it would be a great, very good bill if it were to be proceded in the shape that Grzegorz Schetyn had proposed. But you've changed shape -- you've made a system bill that's about a single witness. The Prime Minister said: we want to take care of ours today. Prime Minister, we also have tomorrow and we have the day after tomorrow. The Minister spoke and stressed that this was a one-off benefit. My question, then, to you, Minister. If your intentions are sincere, if they are not linked to elections, then I have a question: Why is this solution one-off rather than systemic? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u95	The question is asked by Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice. [[You should have introduced them. You were eight years old for this.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u96	Dear Marshal! High Seym! The cash supply of the Emerica+ will reach nearly 10 million people, without the need to submit applications. Retirists and pensioners want this benefit, and they are happy to receive it. Proof? More than 80% public support for this project. And what hurts, opposition, that you call support for retirees and renegade men and women, huh? When you were in charge, you had a chance to put in a good solution. You didn't take that chance. Now you have a super-opportunity. Support the law and justice government project. Respect the pensioners and their hard work. The project is an obvious continuation of the social policy of the Government of Law and Justice. Minister, how much money has the Government of Law and Justice spent for the weak and the elderly, for the most deprived? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[How much for yours?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u97	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Furgo, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u98	Prime Minister! The situation of pensioners in Poland should be resolved in a systematic manner. It is unacceptable that a person working full 40 years in the profession and paying all taxes receives a starvation pension. Most of us already have retired families. They're our parents who wouldn't be able to hold on without our help. We buy them drugs and clothes, we often have to live together, they have to live with their children because they are unable to make their own fees. [[We don't have to. We just want to.]] There's a certain role-changer. Not only should children, but they also need to take care of their parents, because without them parents can't cope with life, even when they are completely intellectually capable. [[But this is the obvious role of the child.]] I don't think this is the country we dreamed of. Retirement time should be a time of peace, enjoying life, joy, grandkids, and not sometimes spending hours queuing for doctors. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Just to make an appointment... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u99	Thank you, sir. The question is asked by Mrs Anna Paluch, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u100	Thank you very much. Prime Minister! The bill discussed today meets the expectations of the most deprived: pensioners who have built the foundations of the Polish economy for years, and now, after many years of work, count every penny from retirement or pension to be enough from the first to the first, and expect our pro-social government to support them. Minister! On the occasion of today's debate, I would like to thank you very much for the programme "Senior+. My district lacks seats in a few open senior homes. They're really happy about it, and that's a very good solution that got really good at it. High Izbo! In this debate, we hear from opposition politicians all the time that the government gives pensioners scraps or alms. Ladies and gentlemen of the P.O., grab this for your colleague Alexander Grad, who in the state company for your government paid monthly for [[♪ The bell ♪]] nothing to do with 100,000. zł. [[Voice from the hall: How much did the Prime Minister want to give him?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u101	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u102	You were giving money... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[It was the Prime Minister who wanted to give.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u103	Thank you, Member. I ask you to ask Małgorzata Chmiel, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u104	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Speaking of "Emerity+" today, the Prime Minister said: We want to remove the hardships of pensioners. Prime Minister, if this were true, you would spend money on this so-needed group - not only once, just before the European elections, on encouraging voting. Why, I mean, don't you want a system solution that says that pensioners would get that money every year? This also assumes our project, the Civic Platform project, which Marshal Kuchciński hid in the drawer. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u105	I would like to ask Małgorzata Płępek, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u106	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is not meaningless that we are debating 13 pensions right now, less than 2 months before the elections to the European Parliament. It's a good thing you listened to the Civic Platform at least once, and you're doing our election program, even though it's cut off. I am interested in whether, in addition to this one-off payment of the benefit, a fair debate on the future of the pension system will take place in Poland. Why is this benefit paid only this year and not permanently? When we can expect... Does the Polish pension system have a chance to undergo a thorough reform in the near future? Prime Minister! You know very well that seniors live below the poverty line. Will pensioners finally be exempt from tax? What about the promised free [[♪ The bell ♪]] Retired people's meds? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u107	Thank you, Member. The question is asked by Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u108	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Recently, you pulled 8 billion VAT from Poles' pockets. You haven't changed... 8 billion tax and 30 danin. Today you're talking about a worthy life. Yes, this pension belongs to Poles and Poles - not as much as government bonuses. Mrs Zosia, Prime Minister, asked me: Why are there expensive medicines and there is no access to cheaper medicines? Prime Minister, Mr Tadeusz asked me: Why is there no help for disabled people, and there are 4 billion for television? Mrs. Hania, Prime Minister, told me the government wasn't talking to protesting doctors, it was talking to itself. Prime Minister! I wanted to ask you where the Minister of Finance is, which could answer why you took our money, all the Polish people and Poles, 8 billion, 30 danin, and you live well. Retirement [[♪ The bell ♪]] This 13th pension belongs to no one else. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u109	Thank you, Member. I would like to ask Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u110	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I was going to ask a completely different question, but I'm glad there's a minister, and I want to ask the Minister what she said on that Seymour's speech. In 11 minutes and 28 seconds, you said this: For the first time, a strategy paper was drawn up for the older people for the years 2018 to 2030. That's the kind of document that wasn't there before. [[Definitely not.]] Minister! You are the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy. Why are you lying? After all, the first such document was drawn up in December 2013 and I would remind you that it was the assumption of a long-term senior policy in Poland for the years 2014 to 2020, the first such strategic document in history. Subsequently, the Government's programme for the social participation of older people for the period 2012-2013. You're talking about living homes. In the Sr. - Wigor programme, these houses were guaranteed and you continue to do so, as is the case with the thirteenth pension, which turned out to be [[♪ The bell ♪]] a single addition. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u111	Thank you, Member. I would like to ask Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u112	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There are over 1,100 thousand living in the Silesian Voivodeship. Retired people, and I'm addressing them right now. Today the government wants to bribe you, giving you a one-time pension payment before the election. Prime Minister! There have been many in our history who have tried to bribe Silesia for their own benefit. Retired people know that. Silesians are a proud and resourceful nation, I promise you they won't be bribed. Last time you tried to do it with women from the country housewives' circles. It didn't work. Two weeks ago, when I was in a meeting with rural women, I heard: we know why the government suddenly liked us. Because there's an election going on and they're trying to bribe us. Please tell them our question: Why have you recently taken 39 million subsidies for education development and development of Silesia? Please ask me that. Prime Minister! I'm asking you: [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why did you do that? [[Applause]] [[No sparks, no flashes. What a performance...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u113	Now the question is asked by Mrs Monika Wielichowska, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u114	High Izbo! 53 days left for the Euro elections. The 13th pension, the idea of the Civic Platform, you converted into a one-off benefit that will be paid once in May, just before the election. The Prime Minister's threatening the opposition. Prime Minister! If the pension benefit is one-off, it will only be paid once in May, then how can you take it? You're moving in some kind of absurd fumes. I will say more - and it is worth remembering, Prime Minister, because this is the official position of the Civic Platform - nothing that is given will be taken away from anyone. [[Voice from the hall: Is that what you're saying today?]] Lying has short legs, long nose Pinocchio and often finds its finale in court. But you, Prime Minister, already know that. [[The voice from the room: And who took the money from the people...]] [[And who took the money from the OFE?]] [[Voice from the room: Look at you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u115	The question is asked by Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u116	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! The Civic Platform wants pensioners and pensioners to get extra money. But they are concerned that these promises will come true. They'd be calm if they were informed by the finance minister, but she's not here. There's chaos in the government. Mrs. Zofia asks if it is true that the Prime Minister has already instructed her to clean her desk. [[Applause]] [[That's Mrs. Sophie's third.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u117	That concludes the questioning. I ask you to answer me, Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Elizabeth Rafalska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u118	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! It's a long and difficult debate. There are a lot of questions and, of course, I will try to answer them all. But maybe I'll refer so globally to this charge, which is very often repeated: you want to bribe Poles, we're just before the campaign, one, in a second. Ladies and gentlemen, this means that since the first day of the rule of law and justice, the rule of the United Right... [[You've wasted three years.]] ...we were thinking about Poles, because from the first few days we have been introducing our social programs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are implementing a social policy that Poland did not know, which the Polish family has not experienced for many years. And there's nothing to laugh at, Madam, because that's just how Polish families feel. This is not a reason to laugh, it is a reason to be ashamed that no one has done this before in Poland, so many years after the transformation. [[Applause]] You ask: What does family policy have to do with older people policy? And do you know what happened when we introduced the 500+ family programme on 1 April 2016? The old ladies were bothering me and saying: Minister, I don't have to help my adult children who have families of many children and haven't done well before. I can buy medicine from my pension, my retirement can be spent on my needs. Because so far, their children, their sons, their daughters have not managed without the support of pensioners. Is that what you're pointing at us today? Very often, the question is: Why one, once a year? I mean, you guys were putting in extras. Have they been introduced more often than once a year? What's to finance it from? After all, you took 150 billion from open pension funds, you had so much money. Why didn't you? Are you pointing at us? [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! Since the dispute, discussion, questions are about a particular project, I will try to answer these questions. Will the allowances that are paid cause us to lose our right to other benefits? No, it's not. In the Law on maintenance, in the Law on education, in the Act on housing allowance, in the settlement of rehabilitation allowance or in the right to a social pension - we have everything guaranteed here. It is about exclusion, that is, if someone gets this benefit, it will be treated as being absent from the social assistance system, similarly with an apartment supplement, so we will not exceed this income limit and because of this one-off allowance we will not lose this right. This witness is also free from bailouts, executions, because some of the elderly are also affected by this situation. As I said, the residents of social services homes will not be able to pay for this part of the benefit, for example. for payment for a stay in a social security home. You say: one-off benefit, just as allowances were paid, but this is a system that has been implemented in different ways so far. After all, this year's valorization is not a simple legislative mechanism, but to ensure that so many millions of Poles get this constant valorisation, it was necessary to add funds from the state budget. Ms Ewa Tomaszewska asked how much money was made out of open pension funds. So one more time: 151 billion zlotys you've brought out and you haven't even given these allowances to pensioners, and today you're pointing it out to us. [[Applause]] The Member says: a good solution, most of the benefits are those who have the lowest benefit. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is the inverted pyramid in which you remember those who have a lower benefit, contrary to what you have proposed. Here's your offer: 13th pension - if someone has 5,000. Retirement, that's gonna get $5,000. Retirement, when he's 3,000, is 3,000, and if he's 1100 zlotys, it's 1100 zlotys. I think it's a fairer model. [[Applause]] Mr. Speaker! You have rightly pointed out that those who have lower benefits are gaining. Ba, even those who do not have an internship, because in Poland there were periods when millions of Poles worked in black because there was high unemployment, because they did not work for their own reasons, but because of various social limitations of this internship, today they will receive this benefit. The Member asks if there is support for this project. Of course, there is very high support. CBOS says it's 84% off. all Poles, not just pensioners and pensioners. So we see these needs, we accept them, we have a lot of understanding for the difficult situation of pensioners and pensioners. What was the expense? Even this year, ladies and gentlemen? Valueration - PLN 7900 million, the supplement we are talking about - PLN 10 800 million. And, ladies and gentlemen, in the years 2018 and 2019 the whole year-round retirement age is restored. Women don't have to work like you wanted until they're 67. They can make their own autonomous decision whether they want to work longer or if they want to retire, how much they want to work. No one's forcing them to work like you suggested. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Anne Paluch asked... You've asked me very much to reach out to the source materials. You asked about the Senior+ programme, because the subject of senior policy is so leading and very important. Very good. So we have, ladies and gentlemen, materials on the policy of creating conditions for the activity of seniors within the daily residence homes divided into voivodships. I will not torture you here, but I will quote that in 2015 there were 99 facilities providing 2772 places, and by the end of 2019 there will be 741 facilities, including 280 houses and 461 senior clubs for 18,000. Is there a difference? There's a difference, ladies and gentlemen. [[This is our 2015 program.]] I will pass this on to both the PSL club and the other clubs so that you can have the source knowledge based on actual changes. Financing this project. The Member asked and asked. I remember asking the Minister of Finance many times about different sources of funding from this speaker. Then we heard: Web or something, please come to the site, you'll find out. I will not refer to the parties, but it would be appropriate to read, for example, an impact assessment of the regulation, which indicates the source of funding for this project. Ladies and gentlemen, information on the financial situation of the Social Insurance Fund, the Bridge Pension Fund or the Demographic Reserve Fund. The beginning of the year, and these figures are from the point of view of the FUS - I see that the Member has returned, so he will have this information - he will have a continuation of the good trends observed in 2018. The situation is favourable, the implementation of the plan is better than what was intended. All of this is due to the high dynamics of the income of contributions, which is the result of good economics in the labour market, i.e. a large number of Poles working, rising wages, introducing deep reforms, such as e-spots or the introduction of an hourly rate. It all translates into the fact that revenue... the social security contribution allowance is higher than the plan, and in addition to the payout, the costs so far are slightly lower than assumed, so there is no slightest risk of financing the thirteenth additional benefit from this source. And once again, I recommend a careful reading of the impact assessment, where we included this information. The project was, of course, consulted with the Ministry of Finance under inter-ministerial arrangements and could not simply be accepted in a different way. The question was how much money, how much extra money would go into the pension pockets. So about PLN 11 billion, I said exactly: 10 800 million for all those pensioners who receive benefits, regardless of the amount of this benefit. These pensioners are exactly 980,000. I can also say that I have updated the data from 1 April 2019 on the pensions of mother, parent supplementary benefit. This is the benefit that will also benefit those who receive this minimum pension, the equivalent of the minimum pension. Within a month 37 810 decisions were issued. The granting decisions are exactly 35 773, of which 13 893 are spontaneous benefits, and 21 880 are supplementary benefits, which would still... persons under their insurance receive this benefit. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as these people are concerned, we have 130 seniors who are 90 and 99 years old. 1700 applications are proposals I have, which raised at least nine children and did not have such benefits. They will receive this minimum and additionally this 13th pension. [[Applause]] That's damage control? To Members of the PSL concerned about firefighters from the voluntary fire department. The voluntary fire department, ladies and gentlemen, has been so equipped that it has never had such support from the state budget in recent years. [[Applause]] But, ladies and gentlemen, when the first firefighter was in charge and he was in the government, Waldemar Pawlak, you didn't bring it in. Why didn't you bring it in? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] How many times did this project go back to the Sejm? But just so you know, if this House seemed to have discriminated against someone else... If a volunteer, a firefighter has reached retirement age and has a pension, then of course he will get this benefit, after all, he is included here. [[Applause]] We just need to get to know each other carefully. Platform idea. It's up to you to decide whether you're criticizing your own idea of whether it's corruption or not, because you're getting lost in your testimony. The Labour Fund. Ladies and gentlemen, we've learned from you how to do... [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're the ones who used creative funding and a creative budget, because I remember how instead of giving a donation to the Social Insurance Fund... [[Voice from the room: Time!]] ...you gave loans instead of grants. All about it. All about it. [[Voice from the room: Time!]] The Member says that he is ill aware of everything, but he is ill aware of even the white and red flag, because the white and red flag is associated with the Law and Justice. I don't have a solution for that anymore. [[Applause]] They were concerned, ladies and gentlemen, with systemic solutions. I am absolutely in favour of system solutions. System solutions must solve problems and support those who need support. But we're not gonna put the system in the pot, just say it, and we're offering real support for pensioners. [[Applause]] And that support that's already been used. There was a question about paydays, ladies and gentlemen. [[Voice from the room: Time!]] Mr President, we are giving these deadlines in which normal pension benefits are paid, i.e. if this is the first, fifth, tenth, if this is the first, fifth, sixth, tenth, fifteen, twenty, twenty-five, without looking at which elections to the Europarlia are being held, these deadlines are implemented in accordance with the payment schedule of the Social Security Office. [[Applause]] There's nothing else here. As far as the transfer is concerned, the taxation of social security contributions. How many times can you say that the social security contribution is simply not taxed? And, ladies and gentlemen, the Member has come out and says that Law and Justice offends Poles, and has insulted the President of Jarosław Kaczyński. [[Voice from the room: Where is the president?]] And, ladies and gentlemen, please try to answer the question: Is there a politician in Poland and this class that would be more insulted and humiliated than Jarosław Kaczyński, who has never deserved such a thing? [[Applause]] You're talking about insulting? [[Voice from the room: Time!]] Ladies and gentlemen, your bosses don't grow up to be our CEO. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] Another Member says that this is not a 13th pension, because your model is: to those who have a lot, to give even more... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[That's not true!]] ...and to those who have less, give less. Ours is the other way around. It's our philosophy. [[Applause]] She said that we wanted to bribe Poles, that the circles of country hostesses... that no one would believe us that people are smart. We have believed in this wisdom from the very beginning. It is you who want to introduce criteria in the case of 500+, force people to work because you do not believe that Poles are hardworking, resourceful, autonomous, know what to spend money on. You're the ones who are just restricting this area of freedom. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Time!]] We're trying to bribe you with what? Mother's pension? Valorization? Raising funds for social policy, for family policy? High Izbo! I think that even this emotional discussion is needed for all of us so that we can raise our hands and support a really good project. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u119	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u120	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! Is it true that 84% Poles support this project? However, the entire opposition tries to disgust this solution and humiliates Poles, claiming that the expected and due benefits are alms.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u121	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position towards the Government's draft one-off money provision law for pensioners in 2019. This project provides for the award of the so-called. pensions+ almost 10 million pensioners. A one-off pension, i.e. 1100 PLN gross, is to be paid to the eligible persons as early as May this year. Importantly, the money is to be paid from the office without having to fill in and submit additional applications. This is, in my opinion, a major facilitation, both for the administration, which would have to process these proposals and for those interested, who would have to submit them to the appropriate office. After increasing the lowest pensions and reducing the current retirement age, the current government notes all Poles and their needs, including the elderly. The governments of the PO-PSL coalition are years of neglect and arrears. In the area of social policy, it remains It's done very little. I'm glad the United Right is trying to catch up today. In March this year. another five actions have been announced to help Poles. It is part of this plan, and the government also envisages extending the 500+ programme to the first child, restoring local bus connections, zero PITs to the age of 26 and reducing labour costs. The total opposition cannot decide whether it is a distribution, or whether it is in fact their ideas, which the current government is implementing. However, it is important to stress that today we are working on the next solution announced by the PiS, and we are fulfilling another promise. I know that these regulations are not systemic, they are only temporary support. However, I have good reason to believe that this is not the last sentence of the current rulers. That their further work will focus on improving the everyday life of all Poles, listening to their needs and responding to them. However, everything takes time, which I have not been the only one saying in this House many times. The pension is a benefit of PLN 888, 25, which Polish pensioners and pensioners will receive. For those whose monthly income is not much higher than this benefit, it is an extraordinary relief to grant it. I trust that, contrary to their dissension, the politicians of the total opposition will also see and vote in favour of this solution. The Free and Solidarnia Circle, of course, supports this project in its entirety.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u122	The discussion requested that the draft law be rejected at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal immediately after a five-minute recess, which is immediately. I'm declaring a recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 min. 42 hours 12 min 45]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 1 of the agenda: First reading of the Government's draft one-off money delivery bill for pensioners in 2019. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for consideration. Are we ready? We're ready. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print No 3311, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 393 Members voted. It was six, against 371, holding off on 16. I state that the Sejm rejected the application and therefore referred this draft law to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for consideration. [[Touchdown, applause]] I propose that the Sejm, based on the article. 39 (1) (a) 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, set a time limit for the submission of the report for consideration at the current sitting of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm declaring a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 min 47 hours 12 min 55]] I'm reopening the session. The competent committees have submitted a report on the Government's draft Act on the ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of the Republic of North Macedonia, signed in Brussels on 6 February 2019. This is print number 3340. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in this case the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to three-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. Ladies and gentlemen! Now we're moving round-the-clock conversations into cockroaches. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and some other laws (Print No 3301). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Filip Świtała to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u123	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The priority among the government's actions is to seal the tax system and improve VAT collection. The proposed law is another step towards sealing the system of VAT on goods and services and, importantly, minimising the risk of unfair participation of honest VAT taxpayers in the so-called. VAT carousels. What's with the bill? We want to create a single database containing all information on the status of VAT taxpayers in the form of a publicly available list. The list will be an important tool for them. Taxpayers will be able to verify the current status of registration of their counterparties on the selected day, as the register will be kept electronically and will be available 24 hours a day. It'll be updated every day. The register shall contain information on the different criteria for taxable persons registered as VAT taxable persons, e.g. NIP number, company name or surname if someone is active in an individual form. Importantly, there will also be information about so-called numbers. settlement accounts. This will reduce the risk of entanglement of taxpayers in fraudulent practices aimed at extortion of VAT and will have a positive impact on business conditions. The creation of a single database containing all information on the status of VAT payers will facilitate and speed up the search for data on the entities within it by the counterparties concerned. First of all, we will create a single list of VAT taxpayers. Currently, the information on them is contained in two lists that we keep: the list of taxable persons for which the head of the tax office has not registered or has been deleted from the register and the taxable persons whose registration as VAT taxable persons has been restored. They will be merged into a single list, which will then also be extended to entities registered as so-called. VAT taxable persons active and exempt. Secondly, the proposal provides for the extension of the information available in the database to the billing account numbers for taxable persons registered as VAT taxable persons. These are the numbers to be monitored using the STIR system. This list will be updated once a day on business days and will be made available on the BIP website of the Ministry of Finance in such a way that it is easily verified that the entity is included in the list on a selected day not earlier than during the five years preceding the year in which the entity is checked. Access to the list will also be possible via the CEPiK. The proposed law provides for the deletion of the entity's data after 5 years from the date of expiry of the calendar year in which the head of the tax office did not register the entity as a VAT taxable person or removed the entity from the register as a VAT taxable person. The project also provides for the possibility of deleting or correcting data. The proposed law introduces sanctions for payment to accounts other than those reported in the published list, as well as mechanisms for releasing them. The first sanction shall be linked to the loss of the right to credit expenditure to the cost of obtaining revenue in the event of payment on the non-description account. It will also be possible to increase PIT and CIT tax revenues in the case of payment by a third party who has received payment from the buyer to the account of a non-listed supplier. All transactions that exceed a single amount of 15 000 will be subject to this sanction. PLN, i.e. the amount provided for by the provisions on freedom of business. It is possible for the taxable person or the third party making the payment to a non-figuring account to be released from these consequences in the list of notices of that account to the head of the tax office of the issuer of the invoice. The second sanction concerns the liability of a joint and several purchaser in the event of payment of claims on an account other than the account on the list. It is possible to exclude joint and several liability of the purchaser if the taxable person making the payment to an account other than that on the list of notices of that account to the head of the tax office competent for the issuer of the invoice or payment using the split payment mechanism. We expect that the regulations introduced by the proposed law will have the following effects: sealing the system, further reducing the VAT gap, sealing the system in the sense that we will have more complete information about taxpayers who are subject to monitoring under the STIR system, which will improve the effectiveness of the fight against crime and tax fraud involving the use of third party bank accounts in the settlement of commercial transactions, facilitate the exercise of due diligence for buyers of goods and services, reduce the risks associated with economic turnover, including. the risk of joint and several liability for the supplier's tax arrears, and will generally improve the business conditions by increasing business certainty. I would like to point out that the proposed regulations will not have an impact on the reduction in the revenue of the state budget and local government units. More like we're expecting a certain height. On the other hand, expenditure from the budget is planned to purchase the equipment and infrastructure necessary to build the system. The estimated cost of purchasing equipment and licences will be around 550 thousand. zł. It is important that the implementation of a tool to verify the status of VAT taxable persons will not entail the need for taxpayers to adapt their IT systems, but this will result in the need to adapt their systems in the Ministry of Finance and their IT work in the Ministry of Finance. We assume that the draft law implementing the VAT list will enter into force on 1 September 2019, except for provisions which provide for negative consequences, i.e. sanctions. Here we provide for the entry into force of 1 January 2020, which will enable taxpayers to familiarise themselves with the new regulations and prepare for the changes they have made. Finally, I would like to stress that the introduction of a tool in the form of a free-of-charge list of entities for the verification of the counterparty concerned will have an impact on improving the business conditions by increasing the certainty of economic turnover. By introducing the possibility to verify the data of the counterparty, traders are provided with an important tool to avoid buyers of goods and services being involved in fraudulent VAT fraud. This will also help to seal the VAT system. In view of the above, I kindly ask the High House to refer this proposal to further parliamentary work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u124	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jan Szewczak, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u125	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! As regards the draft law on amending the law on value added tax and certain other laws contained in print no. 3301, I would like to start by saying that I have bad news for those opposition representatives who have strongly informed us about the economic slowdown this year. In my opinion, none of this is going to happen this year because we're talking about an increase above 4.3%, 4.4%. I think that many euro area countries would like to dream of such a slowdown, as many euro area countries will face recession. I also think that there is no reason to expect any breakdown in VAT revenue or tax revenue at all. I would like to point out that those who claimed that the Polish tax system or the VAT system could no longer be sealed may be disappointed. We, of course, are people of great faith, but not so much faith as to hope that if nature wants to, it will beat the Vistula mine itself and watch over taxes, VAT receipts, because we just have to work a little harder and sometimes very harder to work on these important financial flows up to 40 billion or even 50 billion, if not more. That's obviously due. not only the CBA or the Central Bureau of Police Investigation and National Tax Administration, the government, but also legislation, the Public Finance Commission. We must continue to monitor this, I would say, and introduce real mechanisms into the previously adopted solutions sealing the tax system, even those related to the ICT system, the STIR system. I think that the government, by creating a uniform VAT base, is simply aimed to protect to a large extent small and medium-sized enterprises, small taxpayers from being dragged into these killer VAT carousels for them, the result of which was, after all, numerous human dramas, falls, bankruptcies of these companies, which were simply the result of the total impunity of the VAT mafia and the structures for the collection of VAT in the past years. Well, we're not so... our officials, the treasury officials of the National Tax Administration, are not, as Minister Krzysztof Kwiatkowski used to say, like children in fog who can't handle VAT roller skates. By the way, I think that ministers should already distinguish carousels from reels, and that was recorded. These solutions are intended to ensure a strengthening of fair competition, because this type of attraction of honest entrepreneurs often in the VAT carousel caused that actually they were the only ones left in the battle square. The thieves disappeared quite quickly, transferred hundreds of millions of zlotys through the banking system to various tax havens by no one disturbed, even when they obtained returns going into hundreds of millions of zlotys, and then responsibility fell on small entrepreneurs who remained in this chain because they were acting in good faith. And we had a huge problem, and we often referred as a committee, representatives of the commission to the Ministry of Finance, to save these jobs, these people in some form, but it was actually impossible from the legal side. List of VAT taxable persons who are active or not working, it is also possible to share tax information. She's supposed to be in line with the tax administration. This is our call to the Ministry of Finance to take a closer look at the fact that this correlation with the Tax Order is kind of obvious, understandable, in order to effectively eliminate dishonest taxpayers. This list will simply make it easier to verify its own counterparties. This will also be possible by means of the IT system STIR, but also Central Registration and Information about Business Activity. The draft also provides for the release of sanctions in the form of a failure to account for the cost of obtaining income in the event of payment on an account which is not included in the list of the National Tax Administration, [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the event of notification of the chief of the tax office. Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude, I still wanted to make two amendments to this bill on behalf of the club. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u126	Thank you, sir. And I invite Mr Janusz Cichoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u127	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u128	I'm sorry, sir. I'm just saying, I'm sorry. Excuse me, sir. This is the first reading.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u129	This is the first reading. Second amendment, yes. Okay.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u130	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u131	Thank you again, Marshal. I would like to say first of all that the idea of creating an electronic database containing all information about the status of taxpayers, including bank accounts, is not new. You've inherited this idea from us. If we looked at the recommendations of the expert team published in the first half of 2005, we would see that this proposal was there. And the question is, why is it taking so long, why even the agreement of this project lasted so long, because almost 2 years. That's one thing. The second point - among the proposals, which were also included in this report of the expert team, was a number of other solutions. Unfortunately, you only choose those that are convenient for you and redirect this to a good business burden, mainly to honest taxpayers. In fact, this obligation of verification is to rest on them. At the same time, you do nothing about the fundamental issue I believe, because for 4 years you have not been able to generate a central invoice register, which was also proposed in this report and whose concept was prepared in the Ministry of Finance. This register could certainly have been introduced by at least the end of 2016. In addition, you declared the introduction of this register by the end of 2016, then in mid-2017, in 2018. To this day it is gone, and what you're doing when it comes to JPK and trying to make a register, the Museum of Invoices is actually not going to bring the seal effect. I understand - the essence of this invoice register online this is the authentication of invoices on the server of the Ministry of Finance. You're obviously afraid of this because this verification would have to be carried out, it would have to be done by the KAS. On the other hand, on specific points, I would like to raise a few things. First of all, in this base that we are generating, they will also be identified as suspicious entities, which may happen - they will be classified as suspicious by mistake. They will not inspire the trust of tax authorities for some reason, but it will be a mistake. This has happened quite often in the past. There is a lack of legislation that you are designing here, the possibility to challenge such qualifications and to quickly eliminate the error, which, in my opinion, violates the constitutional rights of entrepreneurs. The Constitutional Tribunal has expressed its views on these matters on several occasions. We've been dealing with situations like this that we've been hit by entities. A procedure which is foreseen in the draft, in Article. 96b. In my view, at the very least, it does not provide the possibility to correct certain data or delete data relating to the entity at all. The second issue that raises my doubts is the question of solutions related to cash payments. Unfortunately, this happens quite often in our economic practice, especially when it comes to small and medium-sized enterprises, that they are waiting to pay very long and in principle not to accept cash may involve the fact that they will not get paid at all. The question is whether it would be worth considering whether or not to allow, in some conditional formula, the possibility of accepting cash for its services or the supply of goods. Finally, the issue of the budgetary impact assessment. We're costing money, and we're not pointing it out. [[♪ The bell ♪]] income. But we should do it. I understand that this four-year delay is a fear that you will show what a loss the state budget has suffered due to this tardiness. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u132	Thank you, sir. Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u133	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today we are talking about amending the VAT Act, which is not about income tax. This is value added tax. One of the most legendary laws was amended ten times by this Sejm. These are probably tens, if not hundreds of thousands of pages of regulations. Only from one bill. This is what a friendly country looks like for entrepreneurs. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! I understand that you represent the Ministry of Finance and that you are not interested in anything else, neither entrepreneurs nor consumers. All you care about is that he has as much money as possible to influence the state budget. It's understandable, and I don't blame it. On the other hand, I resent it, and I will report it on behalf of entrepreneurs above all, about the fact that we are still dealing with the so-called. Polish resort, that is, the Minister of Finance deals with finance and nothing else. And where is Minister PiT, i.e. entrepreneurship and technology? Where does VAT come from? After all, from this, among others, what entrepreneurs do, from their business activity. Why is the law created in such a way that here we have the Ministry of Poland, that one Ministry creates it? I know, of course, you'll say that there was a departmental consultation, that the Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology spoke up and that he probably supported everything. Then I have a question. We're talking about the so-called. split payment, about creating special registers. As for those records, it's okay. If you can't find out who is honest and who isn't, you have to create a special register. So the creation of this register is, in effect, a declaration of failure on the issue of a functioning fiscal apparatus. And just so we're clear, it's not the fault of the officials, it's the fault of the unclear rules you're making here. Like I said, tens, if not hundreds of thousands of pages of the VAT Act itself, and we still have PIT, CIT, etc. And now, Minister, the most important thing. I'm actually in the process of collecting signatures right now, and there's a European Parliamentary election going on, and I'm in contact with normal, ordinary people. I go from house to house, from company to company, where it is of course legal, because we cannot collect signatures in public institutions, and entrepreneurs talk about it. A simple example from last week. Mr President, well, there will be special VAT accounts, there will be special accounts for normal payment. So what if we have these payment deadlines? Why don't you get on with it? How is it that a Polish entrepreneur often provides a service with a payment deadline of 90 days? 3 months. He's gonna do the service, he's gonna pay the costs, he's gonna pay the employee, he's gonna pay the little, he's gonna have to pay the VAT and all the taxes right away, and it's only gonna be three months if it happens. And it is often the case, and that is the practice, the pathology in market practice, that dishonest counterparties do not pay. It works in such a way that if someone asks for their payment, they won't get any more orders. Why don't you guys just get on with your horrendous payment deadlines for the system where the entrepreneur works? The truth is, Minister, that I, and the Minister, and Mr Marshal, are all kept from the hard work of entrepreneurs and citizens that these entrepreneurs employ. They pay taxes and they keep us. So maybe it is worth thinking about not only how to seal the tax collection system - which is a good direction, which is why I say: not only about it - but also finally about creating conditions for the entrepreneur to conduct business efficiently and effectively, so that entrepreneurs are profitable to conduct this business in order to make it worthwhile for them to conduct it. Because, ladies and gentlemen, you say this: you have to do as much as you can to get as much tax as you can from entrepreneurs. Okay, like I said, that's your goal. Please expand your horizon a little bit. After all, entrepreneurs are not made of rubber, they have neither pockets nor wallets made of rubber. They make money. The only problem is that it is often that the State requires tax, you demand payment of tax at a time when the trader did not see any money for the service or the goods sold. And that's the biggest problem. So, ladies and gentlemen, please pay attention to this, because many entrepreneurs are complaining and saying that they have the biggest problem with it. And when they're called to the IRS and the IRS say, "Mr. Entrepreneur, you're here." He owes us, for example. 100,000. for VAT, many entrepreneurs say: yes, I am 100,000. Guilty, then, you have, Mr. Official, here a binder with invoices for 2 million zlotys and you can enforce this 2 million zloty and take everything, because as an entrepreneur, I can't do it. It's the rules. [[♪ The bell ♪]] concerning the conduct of business. And above that, ladies and gentlemen, bend over. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u134	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u135	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I have the honour to present my position on the government draft law amending the VAT Act, print No 3301. The aim of the project, as the Minister said, is to seal the VAT system and reduce the risk of unwittingly involving honest taxpayers in tax fraud, famous carousels. The proposed tool is to accumulate the existing two systems: a list of VAT taxable persons covering those who have not been registered or deleted from the register, including taxable persons whose registration has been restored, and an extended list of data on the status of active VAT taxable persons and exempt from that tax. The full list of VAT taxpayers will be kept by the Head of National Tax Administration on the website of the Public Information Bulletin of the Ministry of Finance, as well as access to the data contained in the list will also be possible via the Central Register and Information System on Economic Activity. The proposed draft list will seem to be a good tool for honest taxpayers who will have the opportunity to check information about their counterparties about the current status of registration of counterparties for the selected day for VAT purposes. Thanks to this verification, honest taxpayers will be able to avoid fraudulent procedures to extort VAT. However, an important issue, I think, in the correct use of the register, will be the creation of an IT system which will allow for a quick, efficient use of the register created. I think there's a problem here, because as we're seeing, the Central Register of Invoices isn't here until today. This delay has been almost three years, so there is a problem. Here we know that the information must be up-to-date on a specific day and this will be verified. The proposal also amends the Act of 11 March 2004 on the tax on goods and services, as well as the Act on personal income tax, corporate income tax, the rules on registration and identification of taxable persons and payers and the Tax Order. The proposed amendments will give the opportunity to verify the taxable person's income in case of payment to a different account than that included in the list, to avoid consequences, but subject to notification of that account, of this fact the head of the tax office responsible for the issuer of the invoice. In addition, the project extends the scope of data not covered by tax confidentiality and also allows the taxpayer to be excluded from the applicable joint and several liability, provided that information on the fact of the irregularity is provided to the head of the tax office. My club, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, is in favour of referring to the further work of this project, where, I think, we will talk about details. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u136	Thank you, Member. I invite Mr Mirosław Pampuch from Modern. Mr Pampuch gave his speech in writing. Okay, well, let's get to the questions. Question time - one and a half minutes, here's where the ladies say. Mr Paweł Bańkowski has the floor. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u137	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have a few questions for the Minister. The first question is this. Why, Minister, does the PiS government want to punish honest traders by introducing joint and several liability to the purchaser of goods or services for the tax not paid by the seller when introducing these regulations to seal VAT? Is it true that this regulation is incompatible with European Union law? In addition to punishing honest entrepreneurs, what costs will entrepreneurs bear in connection with the entry into force of this law? How much will it cost for the state budget to implement these new solutions, mainly in terms of remuneration for the workers who are to be posted to implement these new solutions, as well as the implementation of ICT solutions? And such a key question, not only for Polish entrepreneurs, but for all citizens: When the PiS government finally reduces VAT to 22% and 7% in line with the declaration made by Prime Minister Beata Szydło in 2015? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u138	Thank you, sir. Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u139	Of course, I am addressing my question to the Minister - I have already expressed my slight concern during my basic speech - namely, this list. After all, he will contain a huge number of taxpayers whom other taxpayers will want to check out. I would like to ask, Minister, how the government is prepared to make this system work, in general, and at the same time it works smoothly and quickly, because this time is very important here. After all, the information will be updated daily and the use of the list must be for a specified period of time and moment. Do we have an electronic system that will allow for such a smooth and rapid check of its contractor for the trader? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u140	Thank you, Member. Mrs Margaret Navel. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u141	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The project of creating one open list of VAT taxpayers has been expected by Polish entrepreneurs for many years. Why are you so late? My question is: Will the establishment of this base involve any additional obligations for entrepreneurs? According to the project, access to the list on the Ministry's website will be free of charge, which should be assessed positively. However, I would like to ask if it will be properly prepared from the technical point of view. I still wanted to refer to the proposed sanctions in case of a transfer to a bank account not included in the list. It is a good thing that the project has been able to release these additional sanctions, but is that enough? It may be that entrepreneurs will have to check the list every day, which would be burdensome for them. Will this provision be examined in the course of the process? I wanted to ask what the cost of implementing this law would be. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u142	Thank you, too. Mrs Zofia Czernow. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u143	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The aim of this project is to seal the VAT system and to ensure greater stability of revenues from it. I have a question: What impact will this draft law have on the budget for increased VAT revenue? Because, according to the justification, no additional amounts will be paid for this in the coming years. There's a zero in the explanatory note. Explain that. And second question: Why didn't the government take into account the general objections of the personal data protection officer regarding the scope of the information being processed in the new public list, as well as the photos of some of the banking and tax secrets? Why? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u144	Please, Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u145	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, during my general speech, I forgot to ask you one more thing. Namely, you want to introduce such a solution that those payments which were made in cash between entrepreneurs will not be included in the cost of obtaining income. Let me put it this way: if you wanted to apply the income tax, which Kukiz is actually asking since entering the Sejm, no costs would be needed, you wouldn't have to do such a thing, you know, chasing a cat and a mouse, that you would somehow try to catch up with this mouse, i.e. those entrepreneurs who may sometimes take a little bit of a creative approach to income costs. However, I have a question: What makes it different, which makes it possible that the costs to be paid in cash will not be taken into account as the cost of obtaining income? Just as it was right here at the time of giving club positions, there are situations, for example. The trader has cash, and there's no money in the bank. So? He wants to pay. So, because somebody's gonna come and say, "OK, I'll pay you in cash," I can't count on income costs anymore? What's the point, Minister? Where's the logic? What kind of logic is that? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u146	We cordially welcome the Namyslow group with Mr. Mayor Stawiarski, our former Member. [[Applause]] You're welcome, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I have a question about these administrative, organisational burdens that concern entrepreneurs, because in the explanatory memorandum, I would say quite clearly and just as you have indicated that these burdens will increase, but also you have not tried to estimate the amount or working hours that will characterize this change will be the result of this change. Therefore, Minister, I would like to ask here this question: How much will it cost for entrepreneurs? Because I have the impression that the state is imposing these new burdens on 99% of honest entrepreneurs, you are tightening this loop for them, while those who are dishonest still find further methods to deal with these rules. So have you considered what the additional costs for business will be? And my second question, more so, I would say, concerning the work of the Members: Can this somehow affect the parliamentary offices? Or, for example, in a situation where the counterparty does not regulate the tax, could it also imply any burden on the parliamentary offices? Because here she's sure, I'd say, doubt. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u148	Thank you very much. Now Mr Jacek Tomczak, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u149	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have been hearing about this register for at least 2 years, which has delayed the implementation of this law and created this register. What are the expected costs of setting up this register? I would also like to know what additional obligations will be imposed on entrepreneurs in connection with the creation of this register. I would also like to ask when the government will deliver on its promise to reduce VAT. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u150	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Mr Filip Świtała will speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u151	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for all the questions you have asked. I'll try to answer all the questions. The first point raised by Mr Paweł Bańkowski concerns why we want to punish honest entrepreneurs, whether it is against EU law, what are the costs. These questions were asked by several of you, so that I will answer together. As to whether we want to punish honest entrepreneurs, of course we do not want to. Neither this system we foresee nor this law change it. We introduce joint and several liability, we introduce a lack of settlement of revenue costs, but at the same time we have foreseen a mechanism that allows us to free ourselves from this responsibility. It is sufficient that the trader reports to the tax office that his counterparty has asked for payment on an account which is not reported, is not on the list, it is not included in this list of VAT payers. This means that he is not jointly liable and has the cost of obtaining income. If it happens that for the second time his contractor will want him to put on that account that isn't on the list, he won't have to repeat his application every time. Once he reported it, he's safe. It's one report that exhausts his duties and keeps him safe. So that I don't think it's possible to say that we want to punish honest entrepreneurs. For every honest entrepreneur, it is clear that this law increases his safety. It increases it to a very important extent, because it gives it certainty that it pays on the relevant account on the list. We are responsible for verifying that this account is the correct account, because we will verify whether this account is reported to the STIR system. The next question was whether this was in line with European Union law. I assure you that this is all in line with the law of the European Union. You came forward asking what the cost was. We've calculated the hard cost of licenses and equipment we need to acquire. That's about $550,000. zł. It's a very small cost. As far as human resources are concerned, the Ministry of Finance and Treasury will not involve additional human resources just to merge these two lists. You have often asked why we are implementing it so late. We do not implement this so late because what we are doing now is a consolidation of the already existing two lists. We create a better list, giving more information, giving more certainty. It's not like we're just doing something right now. In 2017 and 2018, we introduced mechanisms that already allowed for much better checking of counterparties. Mr Janusz Cichoń spoke about the Central Register of Invoices. We de facto have the Central Register of Invoices. We have a JPK that is folded automatically. We have it in our JPK analyzer and we are taking appropriate action on this. We have daily information about bank transfers. This information is much more important than the invoices issued, because in the case of invoices you can do various things, you can cheat as if someone wanted and was dishonest. Money in the bank, on the other hand, is a tough thing. You can't cheat here. You can't make a fake transfer. The second point is that actually the work on the Central Register of Invoices began in 2015. We've seen that there are some notes in the Ministry of Finance that generally show that there's an idea that there's going to be some costs involved, that it's not known whether it's possible to do it or not. These are generally notes on this principle, in quotes: let's put this cup apart. That's how I'd conclude it. These notes are in the Ministry of Finance. We could probably expose them if you'd like. I don't know if we can, but maybe we can. When it comes to questions about whether the system is properly designed, because it is a huge number of data, whether we are prepared for this, as I said, we are in fact strengthening and integrating the two existing registers. They're already in and they're already operating on quite a lot of data. We're prepared for this. In the Ministry of Finance, we have a team set up to implement IT work related to this amendment. This will be ready on September 1, 2019. I've already told you about the budget implications. You also asked, several people asked why we do not anticipate revenue from this system for the state budget. It's no conspiracy that we don't anticipate income. It's a caution in estimating income, because you have to be careful in estimating income. The cost estimation assumes that the costs will be incurred. You have to be very, very careful in estimating your income. This system is de facto a complement to existing systems. It's kind of like a dot over a dot over a dot. He completes the STIR system because there are still payments in this system that are in the accounts, so-called. RORs. We want to motivate entrepreneurs to move to RRs to the extent that they report an account to handle VAT payments, i.e. those that are subject to VAT. Then we increase our perception of these accounts, increase our analytical capabilities. As I said, there will certainly be positive budgetary effects for this reason, but they are extremely difficult to calculate, because what really involves this law is a good, much better than the existing consolidated register of VAT taxpayers with full information about their status. You also asked whether we were analysing the additional costs that entrepreneurs would have to bear, whether they would actually have to spend some money here. No. Firstly, I would like to draw attention to the fact that an ordinary entrepreneur will have a great advantage in obtaining certainty in economic trade. Thanks to the fact that he has better information on call, thanks to typing in the search engine, he will be able to check his contractor much faster than now, not to mention how it was when he wanted to check out his contractor in 2015, 2014 or 2013, because then he could hardly check anything at all. He could only see if the NIP number was listed as the number that refers to the VAT taxpayer. That's all the businessman could have done at the time. So the whole burden of checking whether his contractor was honest was on the entrepreneur at the time. We take this burden off the entrepreneur, we give him better information. We are introducing greater transparency for fair economic turnover. That is why I would very much ask the High House to support this project, because this is a project that introduces great transparency for economic turnover and really increases the safety of ordinary entrepreneurs, such an ordinary, honest, especially small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. There was also a question about the parliamentary offices. I'll admit, I don't quite understand. Maybe I can explain the question of cash. Cash is acceptable, but in business, we prefer bank transfers. If the amount to be paid exceeds 15 000. zł, this should be made in the form of a bank transfer. This is a general rule that already exists, based on the freedom of business law. According to this rule, the transfer is more than 15 thousand. The zloty must be a bank transfer. As for what we are introducing, we are adapting VAT rules to this existing rule, right? So we say that when we make a transfer in business between traders, he has to be made to this account, which is disclosed on the VAT taxable person's list. Otherwise, there are negative consequences. They may not be performing, right? There may be no need for joint and several liability; such risks may be taken. On the other hand, we want additional collateral to ensure that payment of such a large amount outside the banking system does not represent the cost of obtaining revenue. So that I would like to assure you that we have analysed these costs for entrepreneurs. We believe that these costs will not be relevant to them, that there will actually be no costs here. What's more, we think that with the IT systems we're designing, we're going to put in a tool called an API in the IT slang. It's an IT device used to mass-check contractors. So basically, it's going to be possible to do something like that in the accounting system, if I want to make a payment, there's going to be information: be careful, because this payment goes to an account that doesn't exist in the database, because this system is going to ask itself, check our list, if it's a given NIP number, a given company, a name, that's a bank account number. So the entrepreneur really gets more certainty here and it's going to happen much faster, because it's just going to be an automated and secure system. The system itself will inform the entrepreneur that something is wrong, be careful, maybe take additional action, ask. So, to the extent that this project includes amendments to the VAT Act, I answered all the questions. On the other hand, I don't think this is the place until I answer the questions when the government will bring back the 22 percent stake. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u152	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed... [[Mr. Marshal, the corrigendum.]] About what? [[It's important.]] The Minister mentioned your name? [[It's a matter of...]] One minute to corrigendum. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u153	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! However, I must ask you about these parliamentary offices because you did not fully understand what the Minister admitted here. So, to put it simply, the point is that we use the NIP number as part of the service of the Members' Offices, because we operate... [[My own name.]] My own name. We need VAT invoices, right? We are not entitled to issue VAT invoices. And now the question is how our offices will be verified by those who issue us such invoices. I understand that the Minister may not be ready to answer right now. In that case, I would very much ask that you examine our situation and reply in writing, perhaps even in some way to the Sejm Chancellery, so that Members can have confidence in the proper functioning of the trade. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u154	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u155	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Poselski Club I am pleased to present the position of the club regarding the government draft law amending the act on the tax on goods and services and some other laws, print no. 3301. The aim of the proposed project is to seal the system of value added tax and to minimise the risk of unwitting participation of taxable persons in VAT carousels. To this end, it is planned to amend the VAT Act, as a result of which the existing information contained in the two lists, i.e. the list of taxable persons for whom the head of the tax office has not registered or who have been deleted from the register as VAT taxable persons and the list of taxable persons whose registration as VAT taxable persons has been reinstated shall be included in one combined list, which shall be extended to entities registered as VAT taxable persons, i.e. data relating to the status of active VAT taxable persons and exempt from VAT. The designer's intention to set up a single database containing all information on the status of VAT payers will facilitate and speed up the search for data on the entities included in that list by the counterparties concerned. There is no doubt that the combination of these registers and their appropriate extension will enable taxable persons to verify information about their counterparties. It is expected that this will reduce the risk of entanglement of taxable persons in fraudulent VAT fraud. Therefore, the Modern Posel Club commends these solutions. However, attention should be paid to the deadline for implementing the new regulations. During the consultation phase, it has been stressed several times that the introduction of all the provisions at one time will result in taxpayers without the possibility of knowing the benefits resulting from the introduction of the list of active VAT taxable persons immediately being burdened with the negative consequences resulting from the simultaneous changes in PIT, CIT and Tax Order. It would therefore be useful to postpone the period of entry into force of the Article. 2, Article 3 and Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] shall apply mutatis mutandis. 5 of the project submitted. The messages and Members of Modern Affairs are counting on this issue to be raised and revised at the stage of the committee's work. We will therefore vote in favour of sending the draft submitted to the committee for further work.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u156	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm should refer the Government's draft law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and certain other laws, contained in print No 3301, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Committee on the Government's draft law amending the Civil Records Act (Prints No. 3296 and 33333). I would like to ask Edward Siarka to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u157	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, I have the honour to present a report on the work on the government draft law amending the Civil Register Act, print no. 3296. The Commission adopted a report on the work carried out yesterday and asks the Sejm to adopt a draft law amending the Civil Records Act. At this point I would like to point out that in the current legal state, the sharing of personal data takes place at the central level from the national PESEL register and at the municipal level, where data from local registers of residents is made available. According to the solution proposed by the government, the sole property for sharing data from the PESEL register will be the municipality body. This municipality, according to a new legal solution proposed by the government and by the committee, will be able to share data, and the application for data from the register will be submitted to any authority of the municipality in Poland. On behalf of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, I request that the report be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u158	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Marta Kubiak, Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u159	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On the basis of the article. Article 118 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland of 2 April 1997 presents to the Sejm of the Republic of Poland the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the draft law amending the Act on the Register of Population, print no. 3296. The main purpose of the proposed changes is to optimise the provision of data from the population records to the entities referred to in Article. Article 46 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, i.e. public entities, and Article. Article 46 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 points 1 and 3, i.e. private entities, the Act of 24 September 2010 on population records. In the current legal situation, the provision of personal and address data collected pursuant to Article is made available. The 8th Act of 24 September 2010 on population records takes place by two tracks. The Minister for Home Affairs at central level shall make data from the national PESEL register and local authorities available from the population registers. The issue of the provision by the Minister responsible for Home Affairs and by municipal authorities of data collected in the PESEL register and the population registers remains unchanged. Given the fact that these entities carry out the task of sharing individual data from the PESEL register and the register of residents to the same entities, the project points to a substantive difference in terms of improving the whole process, namely that the PESEL register is a central register, i.e. a national register, which collects data relating to all citizens, while the register of residents is kept according to the local property of the governor, mayor or president of the city. Currently, the capacity to provide individual data from the register of residents is limited to the territorial power of the municipality authority concerned, which means that the application for data from the local register of residents will not be fully implemented if the person sought by the applicant is not currently registered in the area of the target municipality. At that time, the municipality authority concerned, other than the applicant's reply, that the person sought is not included in the register of residents concerned, may only inform the applicant of the possibility of obtaining the data of the person sought from the national register of PESEL, from which the data on behalf of the Minister responsible for Home Affairs shall be made available by the MMSWiA Personalisation Centre. This generates the obligation to re-invent and centralize the entire process, its operation in one place, and this increases the waiting time for data. The proposed project aims to give the authorities of the municipalities the statutory competence to share the unit data from the PESEL register. In principle, this will be a remote operation, suggesting that an application for individual data can be submitted to any municipality body. This is supported by the fact that the municipalities' authorities have already had access to the PESEL register as of 1 March 2015 and are technologically ready to handle the new task. The solutions proposed in the draft are in line with the regulations applicable to data collected in the National Register of Personal Evidence from which data are made available only by municipal authorities and the procedure itself is also of a remote nature. This convergence also confirms the substantive readiness of the municipalities' authorities to implement the new project. Importantly, the implementation of the new regulations does not involve a burden on the work of municipal authorities. The new solutions will minimise the number of applications for data from the PESEL register and the population registers. The number of applications submitted by public bodies is considerably higher than the number of applications submitted to private operators. In addition, appropriate IT solutions in the PESEL register will eliminate the problem of over-applications. In addition, the proposed law introduces an exception to the general principle of de-locating the process of making the data available from the PESEL register. The application in the same case, in accordance with the proposed rules, can only be submitted to one municipality body. This regulation is intended to counter situations where the applicant simultaneously addresses the same application to more than one municipality body. This also applies to the situation in which the applicant intends to submit a further application in the same case at a later date. In this case, the competent authority for implementation will only be the authority of the municipality which considered the previous application. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I recommend the adoption of a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u160	Thank you very much. Now Mr Marek Wójcik, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u161	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The aim of the amendment proposed by the government is to accelerate the sharing of data from the PESEL register and to release the congestion which was created at the Centre for Personalization of Documents of the Ministry of Interior and Administration. While we understand the need to speed up the handling of queries concerning data contained in the PESEL registry, we believe that the solution proposed by the government unfortunately increases the risk of data leaking from the PESEL registry and access to these data by unauthorised entities. The government proposes that the task carried out by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs be transferred to 2.5 thousand today. municipalities. This will be the exclusive competence of the municipalities and therefore all requests for data, both by public entities and by private entities, will simply be addressed to the municipalities and municipalities will be obliged to reply, as the PESEL register is located, independent of the place of residence of the person to whom the request will be addressed. Therefore, there is some doubt. While municipalities are prepared to handle requests from public entities, which often result from such repetitive activities, including the work of municipal social assistance centres, the implementation of these tasks may be more complex in the case of requests from private operators. We have a fundamental doubt as to whether an official - often a small community - will be able to look at matters relating to the population's records, where there is one job, sometimes a one-and-a-half job, when it comes to people who deal with these tasks on a daily basis - will be able to look at a often complicated case with which he refers to him, for example. The recovery firm. We believe that such an official in a small community, who will be asked to make the data available not only from this community, but after all from all over the country, will simply be vulnerable in a confrontation with a large debt collection company. Already today in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where private applications are handled, often very complex applications, up to 90% proposals require so much work, that, as the Minister said yesterday, these are cases that have expired. That is why we are proposing a solution that we think is a much safer solution. We see the need to unload this blockage that was created and accelerate the query handling process. Indeed, we propose that municipalities carry out tasks related to the provision of PESEL's data on applications from public entities, while as far as private entities are concerned, we would like this task to continue to serve the Centre for Personalisation of Documents of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. This would lead to a situation in which repeatable cases, which are indeed more - the general estimates show that this is about 300,000. cases per year - would be dealt with at municipal level, while as regards cases which are more complicated and often simply require expertise in assessing whether the applicant has a legal interest in obtaining such data, the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration should, however, be left to handle such requests. We would also like to draw attention to the fact that the originally planned date of entry into force of the Act, i.e. 1 May 2019, is a completely unrealistic term. Fortunately, this deadline was extended during the committee's deliberations. Today, the vacathio legis has been constructed differently. Local governments will have 30 days to prepare for the implementation of this law. On the other hand, we believe that this period of vacathio legis should be even longer in order for local governments to be able to train their employees mainly in handling these more complex applications when it is necessary to assess whether the applicant has a legal interest in obtaining data from the PESEL register. Therefore, another amendment, which my club has prepared, concerns the extension of the vacathio legis and the entry into force of this law 3 months after the date of the announcement. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u162	Thank you. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u163	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club, 15 I wanted to refer to the government's draft law amending the Public Register Act, print no. 3296. I would like to inform you that Kukiz15 does not comment on the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u164	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u165	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the government proposal for a law amending the law on population records, upon presentation of the report of the committee. High Izbo! The aim of the bill is to optimize the process of sharing data from population records. Today, this process takes place in such a way that the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration is responsible for providing data from the whole country, while data on residents of specific regions are made available to individual municipalities from those registers that they have. The intention of the government is to create a situation in which all data from the entire PESEL register, both institutions and individuals who are, of course, entitled to do so, would be made available at the level and using municipalities. Of course, the idea as such is positive, because it is a shortening of the path, which in fact contains somewhere in the basis of this project, and it will result in citizens, institutions getting data faster. On the other hand, there are key questions that were mentioned here during the speeches made by my previous speakers concerning, firstly, the competence of the municipal authorities to make these data available. The point is, it's often complicated. Yesterday at the committee meeting it was proposed to extend the vacathio legis. I have the impression that this time is short, and I agree with the proposed amendment, which aims to extend the time which municipalities will have to implement, to prepare their officials, because these are complicated situations. The fact that today the Ministry is in fact considering most of the proposals after the deadline, which follows from the relevant legislation, also shows that they are not simple and that there are a lot of these cases. I'm sure an extension of the vacathio legis is necessary. Of course, the question remains whether all cases, the less complex cases and the more complex ones, should be dealt with at the level of the municipality. There is also a complex amendment. We will look at what it looks like in the second reading, and only after we have examined the amendments, after we have examined the solutions finally adopted, will we present our position on the support of this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u166	Thank you very much. The questions were raised by six ladies and gentlemen of the House. The first question is asked by Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club. I'm setting a question time for one minute, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u167	One and a half minutes. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Local government units are again burdened with additional tasks. In the justification of the project we read that the municipalities are prepared to carry out this task. So I'm asking. : Is this claim the result of research and analysis, or is it only a certain assumption based on the fact that since 1 March 2015 municipalities have access to the PESEL register? Access to the register and sharing of the data contained in it vary considerably. Changes in the organisation of municipal offices will have to be taken into account in order to enable them to handle the sharing of data from the PESEL register. I have great doubts as to whether the municipalities are ready to carry out this new task, not only technologically, but also organisationally and personnelly. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u168	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u169	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act amending the Civil Records Act is a legal act expected by the concerned and local government units, which will speed up and facilitate access to data. I have a question. Do the relevant papers of the bodies mentioned in the Act work on the same programs today and have properly secured data? I would also like to comment on this, because, I admit, I was a longtime employee of the office of the 16 thousandth commune. What I'm saying is that the officials and the municipalities are prepared. The problem is more with programs than with officials. The municipalities expect this task to be carried out, because it will speed up the possibilities in many ways when it comes to working for people. I wouldn't be afraid of that, I'm saying this as the former secretary of the office of the 16-thousandth commune, and the problem is with access to programs and databases. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u170	Thank you. Mr Marek Wójcik, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u171	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will only answer to the Member because I understand that this question, this statement was somewhat related to my doubts. Mr President, now the officials from your 16 thousandth commune will have to provide information to debt collection companies that do not work for the residents of this commune, but simply choose your municipality in order to obtain the information of residents from all over Poland. I would like to ask you about the statistics, because this is not clearly stated in the explanatory memorandum. How much is made available to private operators per year and how much is made available to public entities? I would also like to ask - because according to the project you predict that you can ask only one municipality - how will it be verified whether the recovery company actually submitted the request only to one municipality, whether an inquiry in a similar case, actually in the same case, has not been submitted to another municipality in the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u172	Thank you. Mrs Anna Nemś, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u173	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'd like to ask you about human resources. How have they developed over the last three years? I'm talking about the CPD. Recently, at the committee meeting, you said that there are over 50 people employed. What was the status three years ago? Would it not be worth considering whether the professionals who have handled such cases could be well used? I would like to point out to the Minister that in the PWPW, all those who work are appreciated and, when possible, moved to other work within the company. It seems to me that the human element is very important in dealing with some very complicated matters, and this should be taken care of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u174	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u175	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This law certainly contributes to optimizing the process of making data available from the population records to the designated entities by giving municipalities certain powers to share data from the PESEL register - as the municipalities already have access to the PESEL register. The date of entry into force of the proposed law was 1 May 2019. Will the municipalities be adequately informed and prepared for change? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u176	Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u177	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! This part of the draft law, which provides municipalities with powers to deal with requests from private entities regarding the PESEL register, raises a lot of controversy. She might even be dangerous. I think that before the decision is made, it is worth considering very well. My questions are as follows: Does the government have the opinion of the General Data Protection Officer in this regard? Has GIODO been asked to do so? On the one hand, we have GDPR and the protection of personal data, and on the other hand we are increasingly sharing this data and they can leak very easily. This is a threat to citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u178	Thank you. Mr Jacek Tomczak, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u179	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Is the government aware of the costs of amending this law and will therefore be directed to the municipalities by additional measures to help them carry out their tasks well? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u180	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u181	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The bill will come into force in May. You've joined the procession over her. Minister, I have a question for you: have you agreed and consulted the project with the local authorities? I mean, you guys keep picking 'em up. You want to put them in a situation where they lose a lot of PIT and CIT revenue. Today we are dealing with further tasks that are imposed on local governments. Is there a position for local governments to take over the powers and additional responsibilities that you want to impose on them? What measures are you going to address to them as compensation for giving them additional tasks that local authorities will carry out - it must be said - in the middle of the financial year? The governments have already adopted budgets and are implementing them today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u182	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Paweł Majewski, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, will now speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u183	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to answer all your questions and address all the doubts that have arisen. Since doubts have been repeated in certain blocks, you will allow me to respond to each block as well. Questions have been raised regarding the financing of this task and how it will have an impact on the budget. The change is neutral for the budget. The money that was allocated to this task at the Centre for Personalisation of Documents will be transferred to the voivodships who will distribute it to the municipalities. Thanks to the special grant for tasks commissioned, local authorities will have additional resources, from which they will finance these tasks. This grant will be granted for each application carried out and will be in the same amount as grants for other tasks commissioned to local governments. The Member spoke about the looting of local governments. I think it's worth correcting that information. Mr Morawiecki recently presented statistics showing how the revenue of local governments has increased through taxation under the rule of law and justice. I would like to address the issue of data security. Mr Wójcik asked about statistics. Maybe I'll tell you another thing, because here's the question of a member of the PiS club whether or not local governments are already working on these systems. Yes, local governments are prepared to work on these systems. Officials who will carry out these tasks work in the register of the population in the municipalities. They already have access to the PESEL database. I will also answer the next question collectively. You asked about this issue. In autumn 2018, the Joint Committee of the Government and the Territorial Government gave a positive opinion on this project. Your concerns expressed on behalf of the municipalities do not coincide with the feelings of local authorities. Local governments have given a positive opinion on the project and are not afraid to carry out this task. Mrs Nemś asked about the number of people. At the moment, we don't have accurate statistics on what it looked like, but we'll find them for you. Let me just say that the previous coalition, the government in 2011 moved this task from the MMA to the CPD, so that more people could handle this task, so that employment would increase. The attempts to solve this problem have already been made, but have proved ineffective. These congestions didn't come from the government of law and justice. They're inherited from previous governments, but we're dealing with this problem and we're solving it. Self-government is prepared for this. Since autumn 2018, they have been aware of the plans to entrust them with this task and have responded positively to it. I will mention here the statistics that you have asked for. Maybe I'll give you some statistics for 2017. At the moment, the communes' organs... As regards the requests of private entities and the provision of information from the register of residents, i.e. the same range of data as the one that will now be made available from the register of PESEL, but relating to a single municipality, local authorities implemented in 2017 more requests from private entities than the CPD. The authorities made 147 136 requests available to private parties, while the CPD made them available in 2017. 98,960 applications. So it's local governments that make more private data available today than it is centrally made available in the CPD. Therefore, this task will not be new or more complicated or disruptive for local authorities. The only difference is that citizens will not be referred from one institution to another, but from the first point to which they will report will be informed. This trial will be shortened, the case will not go through several officials, but through one. As far as public entities are concerned, local authorities have made less data available - 1088 thousand. In 2017, the CPD provided 1.5 million of these data. In the following years we introduced computerization, there is teletransmission, these public entities can draw from this transmission. So that the number of data made available will certainly decrease by means of IT solutions introduced by the Government of Law and Justice. This amendment of your opposition Members to leave service in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, that is to say, going back to those solutions from which you yourself fled in 2011, when you moved this from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the CPD because these congestions were already very large. There were requests for training of officials here. Officials know the PESEL register and work in it to a different extent today, work in this register, make amendments to it. So it's not like the officials get access to some new register they don't have access to today. Each operation in this system is recorded, each data check in this system is recorded, so there is no concern about data security. There's always gonna be a way to find out who's been checking them out. And when it comes to preparing officials, as I have already said, for private entities, they are serving more cases today than they are serving centrally. As far as contributing to the tasks of local government units is concerned, I have already answered that question. It's just that local governments want this task because it involves a targeted grant. I think it'll make things better for the local government. This is a certain optimization for the budget because, as I say, there will be no two applications and to the commune, and centrally, you will not have to pay double for the work of officials. This money, which has so far been used to handle CPD applications, will be used to handle applications in municipalities. Mrs Nemś asked what we had already discussed at the committee meeting, but it may be worth repeating this in the plenary room. Well, as far as CPD employees are concerned, we'll make these statistics available for sure. On the other hand, as far as those people who are doing this job today are concerned, as I informed in the committee, the director of the Centrum Centrum Personalizacji Dokumentów has signed several agreements with various public institutions, which have similar tasks as those performed by CPD employees, so that those who work on this task today can help, if they wish, to move to some other public institution. There is also a need for qualified personnel. We've made sure of that, even though we're not obliged to work on this bill. We wanted to take care of the employees of this institution. I think I've already talked about the joint committee about data security, about the fact that the officials are already working in that register, and about the fact that they're making the data available. I would like to thank you for the opportunity to speak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u184	Thank you very much. Member with corrigendum. Time - 1 minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u185	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! There is no return to the 2011 situation, as the Minister suggested, because in 2015 the System of State Registers was established and implemented, which changed the situation in this area. So accusing us that we want to go back to the old solutions is completely inappropriate. We see the problem and we believe that the solution proposed by us is simply a safer solution, because we are talking about the division of these two tasks into a task, which in part would be carried out through municipalities, but in matters that really require an assessment of whether someone has a legal interest or not, would be carried out by the CPD in the MMA. We believe that this would be a much safer solution, because even if the local authorities positively assess the possibility of sharing data with them, I honestly doubt that the local authorities will realize that they will be faced with the need for e.g. in a moment. determining the circles of heirs [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the case of unwanted inheritances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u186	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Do you want me to answer that? But we've already had a discussion on the committee... You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u187	Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. I'll try to answer in a minute. Self-governments are already doing it today, setting up inheritance circles. Repeat: 147,000. cases in 2017, more decisions than in CPD. Thanks to the System of State Registers, this task can be transferred to the commune, as you said. That's why it's a decision. As far as these reservations are concerned, the lack of trust in local governments, I would appeal for consistency. The leader of the Civic Platform Grzegorz Schetyna recently announced the liquidation of voivodeship offices and wanted to increase the role of local governments. Now you're saying that local governments... [[It's not a lack of trust.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u188	Okay, but the discussion has already been made, ladies and gentlemen, please don't disturb me. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Paweł Majewski: ...they are unable to carry out this task. [[Voice from the room: Substantively.]] So I would appeal for consistency, because in a situation where there will be no voivodship offices, as you propose, there will be no supervision. Today, such supervision of the voivodships, the Ministry of Digitalization, will be, so I would ask for more trust and consequences. Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u189	Dear Marshal, High Seym! Minister! I was honoured to present the position of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats club in the High House with regard to the presentation of the government, including the report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, on the amendment of the law on population records. The proposal is a short normative act, but contains significant changes in the area of applications submitted as well as their consideration of the sharing of data from the PESEL register. The purpose of the proposed amendments is to optimise the process of making public records available to the entities referred to in Article. Article 46 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 46 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 points 1 and 3 and, more specifically, they are public entities and private entities. In view of the fact that both the Minister for Home Affairs and the individual municipal authorities carry out the task of sharing the individual data from the PESEL register and the register of residents to the same entities, based on the same principles, it should be pointed out that the only, but very important for the optimisation of the whole process, difference that the PESEL register is the central register in which all citizens' data are collected and that the register of residents is kept according to the local property, i.e. by the mayor or the president of the city. This means that local registers, including data collected therein, are only part of the national central PESEL register. The current state of law indicates that, in addition to stating that a specific person sought by an applicant is not included in a given register of residents, the local government authority is unable to and cannot have information about the person sought because, in the absence of records, it does not have such knowledge itself. This amendment to the Civil Records Act by giving the authorities of the municipalities a legally defined competence will make it possible for these authorities themselves to have access to data from the PESEL register. This will consequently mean the location of the operations, i.e. in other words, the application for data will be made in any municipality body. At this point, it is possible to raise and articulate the fact that according to the government's provision, the municipalities' authorities already have access to the PESEL register under the Civil Records Act, starting on 1 March 2015. In addition, the proposal will be in line with the regulations that apply to data currently collected in the National Register of Personal Evidence. The Government's submission considers that, in the case of the adoption by the High Sejm of an amendment to the Act under review today, the Minister responsible for Home Affairs will only make available the individual data from the PESEL register until 30 April 2019. The reservation does not apply to applications which entered the MSWiA database before that date. High Seym! At this point, I would like to point out that from 1 January 2019 public entities which have a decision authorising access to the PESEL register by means of teletransmission may not use the unit mode. It is noted that after the entry into force of the Act, public entities without a teletransmission decision will no longer be able to request data in an unlimited manner, since from that date each public entity will be able to obtain up to 300 individual data. After using the limit, a public entity in order to obtain further data will have to request the Ministry of Digitality to issue a teletransmission decision or wait until 1 January of the following year. The proposed law introduces an exception to the fact that the application in the same case can only be submitted to one municipality body, which will counteract the chaos and disorganization of the work of municipal authorities. In summary, the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, taking into account the impact assessment, recommends adopting the solutions contained in the report of the Committee on Printing No 33333, especially since no notifications of interested parties were made or the risks resulting from the proposed regulation were identified.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u190	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the government draft law on the submission of certain official documents in the Member States of the European Union (Prints Nos 3261 and 3332). I ask Mr Piotr Kaleta to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u191	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, I would like to report on the work of the committee on Parliamentary Printing No 3261. It is a draft law on the submission of certain official documents in the Member States of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, in short, this is an implementation that concerns EU law. The proposed Act on the submission of certain authentic documents in the Member States of the European Union serves to apply the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union 2016/1191 on the promotion of the free movement of citizens by simplifying the requirements for the submission of certain authentic documents in the European Union and amending Regulation No 1024/2012 of the European Union. The Regulation, which entered into force on 16 February 2019, has general scope, shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in the Member States of the European Union. The main objective of the Regulation, which is to simplify procedures for mutual recognition of documents by the authorities, is, inter alia, pursued. by abolishing the verification requirement for certain official documents issued in one Member State of the European Union to be presented in another Member State. The regulation includes documents relating to birth, life confirmation, death, surname, marriage - this applies to the ability to enter into marriage and marital status - divorce, separation or annulment of marriage, registered partnership - fortunately it does not apply to us - the dissolution, separation or cancellation of a partnership - also fortunately it does not apply to us - the origin of children, adoption, as well as the place of residence or residence, citizenship, lack of registration in criminal records, the possibility of exercising active and passive voting rights in local elections. This Regulation does not impose an obligation on Member States to recognise documents which are not in accordance with the legal order of the State concerned or to issue documents not provided for in the legislation of the State concerned - e.g. in the case of Poland, as I have already said here, this does not apply, for example, to partnerships. The proposed regulation does not contain technical provisions and is therefore not notified in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Regulation of the Council of Ministers of 23 December 2002 on the functioning of the national system of notification of standards and legal acts. The proposed regulation does not affect the activities of micro-entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized enterprises. The draft law was published in the Public Information Bulletin of the Government Legislative Centre. As far as the committee meeting is concerned, legislative and editorial amendments were tabled during the meeting, there were 10 of them. They were adopted in unanimous mode, not controversial. The amendment was also accepted, actually an auto amendment, to the article. 6. It clarifies the issues concerning the issue of a multilingual form - a supplement to the official language of the European Union is required, in which, in addition to the Polish language, a multilingual form is to be drawn up. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee has adopted the proposed bill in the course of its work. I therefore submit it to the High House as a draft law to be adopted. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u192	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Jacek Kurzepa on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u193	Dear Marshal, I was honoured to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice with regard to the draft Law on Seym Printing No 3261 on the submission of certain authentic documents in the Member States of the European Union. The proposed law is synergistic towards the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the promotion of the free movement of citizens by simplifying the requirements for the submission of certain official documents in the European Union and amending EU Regulation No 1024/2012, hereinafter referred to as Regulation 2016/1191. The provisions of the Act aim to simplify procedures for mutual recognition of documents by the authorities, which is implemented inter alia. by abolishing the requirement of legalisation and apostille, otherwise, marking the documents with a clause, with an official stamp. The submitted project therefore contains catalogues with the names of the documents to which it will apply. They are located, for example. among them: a copy of the summary birth certificate, a complete copy of the birth certificate, a death certificate, a marriage certificate, a certificate of marital status, a decision of the court to determine paternity, adoption, a certificate of registration for temporary or permanent residence, etc., etc., within the meaning of Polish law. The draft identifies the procedures and arrangements for multilingual forms to be used in the official-EU circulation, the rules for submitting applications for them, the scope of the data to be included in the application for multilingual forms, the procedure of the authorities responsible for issuing them and the amount of the fees. It is therefore a step towards adapting and facilitating the circulation of documents, which is intended to promote the mobility and mobility of citizens of individual Member States in the European Union. This is also intended to promote the sense of fairness of the actions of the EU and national institutions, whose coherence can thus be strengthened and the bureaucratic excess of documents limited. The benefits of this document for citizens are threefold - they get the right to receive a document valid in both their mother tongue and in the language of the country for some reason, there is a rationalisation of the costs of obtaining this document - in the country it is estimated at PLN 17, in the European Union - EUR 30 - which makes it very competitive with the existing procedure for obtaining documents in the offices of licensed translators, and ultimately, the target is to adapt the System of State Registers to issue multilingual forms so that these documents are obtained directly from the IT system without the need for the authority to fill out these documents, which will not only facilitate the work of this body, but also reduce the time for the implementation of the matter for citizens. This strongly supports the acceptance, positive opinion of the club Law and Justice on the draft law from print no. 3261. The Law and Justice Club supports the proposed solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u194	Thank you. Mrs Anna Nemś, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u195	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, I present my opinion on print No 3261. The proposed Act on the submission of certain authentic documents in the Member States of the European Union serves to apply the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council 2016/1191 on the promotion of the free movement of citizens by simplifying the requirements for the submission of certain authentic documents in countries across the European Union. The requirement for legalisation in respect of certain official documents issued in one Member State to be presented in another is therefore abolished. This regulation covers data that are very important from the point of view of citizens, as has already been said, concerning birth, life confirmation, death, surname, separation, place of residence, place of residence. Nor does the Regulation, which is important, impose an obligation on Member States to recognise documents which are not in accordance with the legal order of the State concerned. Member States were also provided with a tool to verify the documents submitted. This is the system we have discussed, IMI. As part of the IMI verification, the Authority will be able to consult and analyse the model documents issued by other Member States. A novelty has been introduced in the form of a multilingual standard form. The form will be an official translation of the document and will duplicate the official information contained in the document to which it will be annexed. This regulation is directly applicable and therefore it is not necessary to implement it in the Polish legal order. It is necessary to draw up appropriate rules on the competence of bodies, the form of documents and the fees. To ensure consistency, a law is proposed. And I think that's a good solution. In accordance with the provisions of that Directive, Member States may choose a centralised or decentralised model in this respect. Our project, presented by you, has adopted a decentralised model. The coordinating body is proposed to establish the Minister responsible for Home Affairs in view of the largest number of documents issued in the field of Home Affairs: Home Affairs. It seems to citizens that this direction, i.e. such unification at document level, is a good direction. The hardest part, I think, is that citizens, because to this day I do not know whether this information is so widespread, they consider this system to be friendly and safe. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u196	Thank you. Now Mr Piotr Apel, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u197	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! The project will, of course, unify certain things about documentation, bureaucracy. There is no reason not to support this project, which is why Kukiz15 will vote for it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u198	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u199	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the government draft law on the submission of certain official documents in the Member States of the European Union following the presentation of the committee's report. High Izbo! Ratio legis submission is to enable the application of Regulation 2016/1191 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the promotion of the free movement of citizens by simplifying the requirements for the submission of certain official documents in the European Union and amending Regulation No 1024/2012. The purpose of the Regulation itself is to abolish legalisation and apostille for certain official documents issued in one Member State of the European Union to be presented in another Member State. It is worth noting that the Regulation itself is already directly applicable from 16 February 2019 but it is necessary to introduce appropriate regulations at national level in order to enable it to be applied. The project therefore provides for a number of solutions, including: creation of a catalogue with the names of Polish documents to be covered by the application of the provisions of the Regulation. Secondly, it is proposed to regulate issues relating to multilingual forms, in particular the identification of the catalogue, the scope of the data to be included in the application, or the way authorities deal with the issue and the amount of the fee. Third, the authorities responsible for carrying out the tasks related to the implementation of the Regulation have also been identified. According to the information provided, the government also plans to adapt the system of state registers so that these forms can be issued as efficiently as possible, for the citizens of Poland, of course, but also for the citizens of all other Member States of the European Union. This means some kind of facilitation in the presentation or acquisition of documents that concern important areas of life for every citizen. Of course, these documents will also be verified using a dedicated tool. These are, I'd say, aspects that are almost important in this. Of course, it's not like there's no question. Therefore, we must certainly ask, first of all, about adapting the state registers. The register will affect the efficiency of the operation in this area. Therefore, the question of how the government sees the issue of preparing this, implementing the relevant amendments, education of users of this system and subsequent evaluation and possible amendments, because the scope is very broad and, as I mentioned, concerns important civil affairs. There is also a question, which has already been partly indicated, whether a case which has already been partly indicated in the explanatory memorandum. Well, in the case of partnerships that exist in many European countries, mostly... Unfortunately, so far there is no equivalent in Polish law. There is, of course, a bill made by the Modern Club. This bill is in the freezer. Here we should ask why you are delaying so long to consider an issue that is simply a civilizational obligation. In view of the fact that this definition is still missing, you have announced in the explanatory memorandum that issues relating to partnerships are excluded from these provisions at all. Of course, this cannot be regarded as a proceeding, I would say, a normal one, which is why on behalf of the Members' Club Modern amendment to this bill. In this amendment, we want the bill to include a certificate stating that, under Polish law, marriage can be concluded, also in case of a desire to enter into a partnership in another Member State of the European Union. There's no reason, ladies and gentlemen. [[♪ The bell ♪]] - here I am addressing the government - to stand up against happiness...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u200	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u201	...our citizens. I therefore ask you to accept our amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u202	The questions were raised by four ladies and gentlemen of the House. Mr Marek Wójcik is the first to ask a question. I'm setting the time - one minute. I'm closing the list of questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u203	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In your explanatory memorandum, you point out that this Internal Market Information Exchange System, IMI, has been made available by the European Commission. As I understand it, this system has already been established and you have access to it, and after the entry into force of the Act, because the Act enters 14 days after the date of the announcement, this certification procedure and the granting of the right to access this register will simply begin. So please confirm whether this is the case, whether you have already carried out any tests with civil status offices, whether civil status offices will actually be able to handle this register without problems. I would also like to ask, because in this discussion there was such a thread of adapting this register to the system of state registers, to ask the question: Do you take any action in this area and when such action will be completed? If the bill comes soon, will it? [[♪ The bell ♪]] These tasks will be completed at the time of the entry into force of the Act...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u204	Mrs Margaret Navel...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u205	Is there gonna be some adjustment time? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u206	...Citizen's Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u207	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to point out that the deadline for the Council of Ministers to submit to the Sejm a draft law implementing this EU regulation expired on 16 November 2018 and that the Council of Ministers only submitted such a draft on 27 February 2019. Why are you so late? Why such negligence? The changes are mainly based on the introduction of a multilingual form, so they are relatively small and easy to implement. However, was it so labour-intensive that it took so long to create rules adapting Polish law to the EU regulation? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u208	Thank you. Mrs Anna Nemś, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u209	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Has the catalogue of multilingual forms, today closed catalogue, been fluently extended? Of course, if necessary. Today this catalog contains 10 items, this general catalog has 40. Were there still areas that have already been diagnosed but have not yet been included in these multilingual forms? Will this way of entering, increasing this directory be smooth without the need to introduce or modify this act? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u210	Thank you. Mr Jacek Tomczak, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u211	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I want to ask the question: why is it so late? It is a pity that you have not been able to implement these provisions on time. Are the authorities prepared for this implementation and how do you estimate the costs associated with the implementation of these provisions? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u212	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u213	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have two questions. The first concerns the issue of partnerships, which you specifically mentioned in the explanatory memorandum, that these provisions will not be applied. However, we cannot close our eyes to the fact that, in principle, most countries are able to enter into such a partnership. Now we are putting our citizens in a very difficult situation. You're ignoring it at all. The question is why this is your position, why the government decided to turn a very large group of citizens off completely, I would say, in an absolutely incompatible way with any civilized principles, and how those who want to enter into partnerships abroad should find themselves in this situation. If you'd be kind here. [[♪ The bell ♪]] present this information. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u214	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Minister Paweł Majewski, Minister of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u215	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer your questions, IMI is a system already used by officials. A new module was created in this system. Therefore, as far as costs are concerned, one procedure replaces the other. As far as the implementation of this law is concerned, I would like to say that the law does not block the application of this regulation. This Regulation is not directly applicable. The Act is an act which allows in Polish law to implement these provisions according to Polish legal order. And that's what happens when you ask about partnerships. There are no partnerships in the Polish legal order. The Constitution clearly states that the relationship between men and women is recognised by the State as the only acceptable one, so I think that is the answer to the question of the Member. As far as the question is concerned about these forms directories, it must necessarily be standardized forms, without a descriptive part, hence such and not another directory forms. If such forms appear without a descriptive part that can be used, they can be automatically translated to make it easier for citizens, we will certainly implement this into the Polish legal order. At this moment we have collected those which already exist in the Polish legal order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u216	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u217	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! We proceed with the procedure of a law of the rank of a law aimed at the enforcement of European Union law. The proposed law serves to apply the EU Parliament and Council Regulation 2016/1191 on promoting the free movement of citizens by simplifying the requirements for the submission of certain official documents in the European Union. The primary objective of this Regulation is to simplify procedures for mutual recognition of documents by the authorities and to abolish the requirement of legalisation for certain official documents issued in one Member State of the European Union. This Regulation covers, inter alia, the scope of this regulation. documents of birth, death, surname, divorce, origin of the child, place of residence or place of residence or finally nationality. Some of the data indicated in Regulation 2016/1191 do not oblige all Member States to recognise documents which are not in accordance with the legal order of the country concerned or to issue documents not provided for in its legislation, e.g. with regard to the Republic of Poland, this will apply to documents dealing with partnerships, because our legislation of this institution does not provide. By abolishing the requirement for legalisation, this Regulation also provided Member States with a tool to verify the authenticity of the documents submitted. This tool is specified in IMI. Within the framework of the verification in this system, the relevant authority will be able to consult the model documents issued by other Member States or to clarify the doubts raised by contact with the authority of another Member State of the European Union which issued the document submitted. The above procedure gives the Polish authorities the opportunity to verify the documents submitted to our country, but also requires that they answer the questions of the authorities of other countries with regard to the documents issued by the Polish authority concerned. Communication in this area will be carried out by means of pre-translated questions and answers. The main task of the central authorities, i.e. individual ministers will coordinate the implementation of the tasks related to the reception and transmission of proposals in IMI. At this point, it is acceptable to raise the fact and to pay particular attention to the fact that the authority responsible for replying to the request for information will be any authority which has issued a questionable document, which means, for example, that in the case of a copy of the act of civil status will be the head of the civil status office, and in the case of a court ruling there will be a court, whereas in the case of decisions concerning nationality, the competent authorities of the MMA or the voivode respectively. High Seym! By proceeding with such important matter, it is worth to articulate from this place that today we are dealing with the issue of official documents, which are not merely documents of name or presumption, but, as we should pay particular attention to, documents appearing in individual laws, and many of them have the rank of codified laws. The issuing of certificates, for example, on the expression of the will to vote or stand as a candidate in elections to the European Parliament or in local elections in a Member State of the European Union is crucial, for example, in relation to the place of residence of the citizen concerned. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The seriousness of the matter that is being processed today makes it binding on the Member States of the European Union, which also means the Republic of Poland, and thus the slightest mistake, attentionlessness, failure to see whether an official haste can cause effects that are often difficult to reverse. However, after an in-depth analysis of the matter under investigation, the PSL-UED club sees no reason why it would oppose the adoption of the proposed law, and will therefore support the adoption of the print report 3332.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u218	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the consideration of items 5 and 6 of the agenda: 5. First reading of the Parliamentary draft law amending the Act on the Tax on the Extraction of Certain Copies (Print No 3312). 6. First reading of the Parliamentary draft law on the repeal of the Act on tax on the extraction of certain minerals and on the amendment of other laws (Print No 2936). I would like to ask Mr Krzysztof Kubow to present the justification for the bill contained in print no. 3312. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u219	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a parliamentary bill amending the law on the extraction of certain fossils, print no. 3312. The project concerns a 15% reduction the dimension of the tax on the extraction of certain fossils. Currently the biggest taxpayer in copper mining is KGHM Polska Miedź SA, which together with the capital group employs over 33 thousand. employees. The company generates revenue of about PLN 20 billion per year. It is a key economic operator not only in the region, but also in Poland as a whole. KGHM is a global company due to the location of its plants, mines in Poland, Canada, the United States and Chile, as well as its markets. Up to 80% domestic production of KGHM Polska Miedź SA is exported. KGHM is faced with the consequences of investment decisions taken between 2011 and 2015 resulting in an increasing financial burden instead of positive returns on invested capital. At the same time, the company is under pressure of increasing investment costs and needs, in particular the mining part of the business. An important negative impact on the company's situation is the tax on the extraction of certain minerals, the strong construction and the amount of which limit the company's investment opportunities, endangers the ability to maintain the production volume necessary for stable operation. At the end of 2017, the company's debt amounted to over PLN 7 billion. At the end of 2011, i.e. immediately before the introduction of the tax on certain fossils and making key investment decisions, the company reported over PLN 12 billion of free cash. Between 2012 and 2017, the company allocated over PLN 14 billion for the purchase of Quadra FNX and financing of foreign projects, mainly the construction of the Sierra Gorda mine. At the same time KGHM paid PLN 9.5 billion of fossil tax, in 2017 alone it was about PLN 1800 million, and in total more than PLN 24 billion of taxes and charges. Great foreign investments, which have not so far brought the expected return, have resulted in the suspension of important domestic investments, on which the future of the Polish part of KGHM depends. With the current level of debt and significant tax burden, the company is not able to plan such investments, which in the long term are necessary to conduct profitable mining of copper ore and silver in the concession areas of KGHM in Poland. Reduction of the tax on the extraction of certain minerals by 15% - it is estimated to be 180 million in 2019 and 240 million in subsequent years - it will make additional KGHM funds available, which will significantly translate into long-term stability and development of the company. The growth trend of KGHM's debt, which could threaten the existence of many thousands of jobs in the long term, will be significantly slowed down. At the same time, it will be possible to plan the extraction and processing of ores for decades to come. KGHM will remain the main economic engine of the Lower Silesia region and the Copper Basin. Moreover, the funds released will allow increased investment, exploration and exploitation of copper ore deposits, which will translate into a better economic situation of the region, employees of the company and their families and local authorities. Revenue from other taxes and social expenditure from the KGHM Capital Group will increase, KGHM Foundation, as well as local governments, which are maintained, among others. from the danin public company. In the long term, the reduction in the tax on certain fossils can also translate into completely new domestic investments of KGHM outside the Copper Basin, located on acquired or acquired concessions, among others. Polyhalite deposits in the vicinity of Puck in the Pomorskie voivodship, copper deposits in the Lubuskie voivodship. This would allow more regions, not just Lower Silesia, to become significantly enriched by the economically efficient mining activity of KGHM Polska Miedź SA in their territory. The financial effect of reducing the tax on certain minerals by 15% will reduce the impact on the state budget by an estimated amount of PLN 180 million in 2019, as I mentioned, and 240 million in subsequent years. However, in the assessment of the applicants, these reductions in tax revenues from certain minerals will largely be offset by additional income from CIT and VAT paid by KGHM Polska Miedź SA and co-operatives, as well as indirectly through fiscal receipts of local government and PIT paid out by employees of the company. The bill does not affect the condition and competitive position of micro-entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized enterprises. The draft law does not lay down the rules for the taking up, pursuit or termination of business activities within the meaning of the Law of 6 March 2018. The draft law does not require an opinion, consultation or agreement with the competent authority and institutions of the European Union, including the European Central Bank, and is compatible with European Union law. It is proposed that the law enter into force on the day following the date of publication. The proposed provision does not affect the principles of democratic rule of law or the principles of legal certainty. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the applicants, I kindly request the support of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u220	Thank you, sir. Now please... Isn't Mr Krzysztof Sitarski in the Chamber who is assigned to present the bill? I'm announcing a three-minute break. Maybe we can find him. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 min 56 hours 15]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider items 5 and 6 of the agenda. Mr Stefan Romecki will present the justification for the draft law in print 2936. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u221	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to present a draft law on amending the tax law on the extraction of certain fossils. High Izbo! The current tax system in Poland inhibits investment activity of mining companies. A tax on the extraction of certain minerals was introduced in Poland on 18 April 2012. It represents the revenue of the state budget. It is important to discuss the meaning and validity of the tax on copper extraction in Poland, and to consider the possibility of introducing an alternative tax on fossil fuels or its elimination. An alternative fossil tax could be calculated on the basis of the market price of a tonne of copper extracted. When economic downturns occur, mining companies significantly reduce investment expenditure. We are facing a threat of unfulfilled investment projects in the mining sector during the economic period. The copper exchange rate is increasing and moving towards mid-2014 and 2018 results. The current quotations of this metal are USD 6492.75 per tonne as at 3 April 2019. Copper mining involves high initial capital expenditure. Increasing the capital stock assuming that extractive entities increase their commitment to work will increase productivity and thus increase the profitability of the extractive sector. In Poland there are documented copper reserves and at the same time there is relatively small extraction. National copper extraction and the world situation. The documented copper deposits in Poland amount to 28 million t - 8th place in the world. The most prosperous countries are Chile - 170 million t, Australia - 88 million t. The leader of copper mining is Chile, which gained 5.4 million t in 2018, followed by Peru - 2,4 million t. Mio t, China - 1.9 million t. Poland is 13th among producing countries at about 0.5 million tons. The investment cycle in the copper sector consists of four stages. The first is the recognition of the deposit, together with the construction of the infrastructure for its extraction, which is related to the second point, i.e. the development of the deposit, followed by the third point, i.e. the regular extraction of the product, up to the fourth point, i.e. the completion of the extraction with the liquidation of the mine. The tax on the extraction of certain fossils, for copper, in its present form, reflects the cost-effectiveness of the deposit, i.e. the rate of return on investment, which translates into reduced income from PIT and VAT. In conclusion, the proceeds from the fossil tax depend on the profitability of the entire project. The subject of taxation is copper extraction in the territory of the Republic of Poland or the territory of the exclusive economic zone. The tax shall not be subject to copper ore or processed copper ore ore which is not converted into copper ore by weight in a quantity not exceeding 1 t per month. The tax is paid by anyone who in the field of their business is mined by copper. The tax obligation already arises in the production of copper, i.e. on the day of production of the concentrate from the copper ore extracted by the taxpayer. The tax base is the amount of copper and silver contained in the produced concentrate or the amount of copper or silver contained in the ore of copper. Where the taxable person does not produce concentrate from the extracted copper ore, the taxable person, the producer, is required to measure the copper content of the extracted copper ore per day. With regard to copper extraction, the amount of tax for a given month shall be the sum of the product of the quantity of copper expressed in tonnes and the rate of tax. The taxpayer making copper extraction can calculate the loss and the way is described in the Act. Thus, the taxpayer determines the loss in the part concerning copper extraction in the proportion in which the revenue generated in the copper extraction tax year remains to the total amount of the taxable person's income determined on the basis of the income tax rules obtained in that tax year. The formula for calculating the copper fossil tax since 2012 is as follows. First version at the price of copper exceeding 15 thousand. PLN per tonne, mouth. 2.3,3% average copper price at 1,10% the average price of copper to the power of two and a half. In this case, the maximum tax rate may be 16 000. PLN per ton. The second version, when the average price of copper does not exceed 15 thousand. per tonne - average price of copper 12 thousand. multiplied by 44%, with a minimum tax rate equal to 0,5% the average price of copper. The proposed draft by Members of Law and Justice, Parliamentary Printing No 3312, implies a change in the formula for calculating the copper fossil tax actually consisting in setting the rate of the tax. Version one: the tax will be 15% lower. Second version: when the average price of copper does not exceed 15 thousand. zł per 1 t - average copper price is 13 012 zł - this is calculated according to the formula: tax rate times 0,374, with a minimum tax rate equal to 0,5% the average price of copper. Silver mining is also specifically taxed. In the field of copper and silver extraction, the tax obligation arises on the day on which the concentrate is produced from the copper ore extracted by the taxable person. The tax base for copper and silver extraction is the quantity of copper and silver contained in the produced concentrate. The tax base shall be the quantity of silver expressed in kilograms. Measurements of silver content shall be made each month on the basis of daily samples taken. Formula for calculating the silver fossil tax rate in the field of silver extraction. The amount of the tax for a given month shall be the sum of the products - first version. Second version: if the average price of silver does not exceed 1200 PLN per kg, the tax rate is the average price of silver, or 1000 PLN, times 0.75, with a minimum tax rate of 0,5 average price of silver. I'll remind you of the current one, i.e. as at 3 April 2019, silver listing on the stock exchange: 15,15 £1 for an ounce. The proposed draft by Members of Law and Justice, Parliamentary Printing No 3312, implies a change in the formula for calculating the silver fossil tax, which is in fact to determine the rate of the tax. Version one: the tax will be 15% lower. Second version: when the average price of silver does not exceed 1200 PLN per kg - the average price of silver is 1085 PLN - this is calculated according to the formula: tax rate times 0,638, with a minimum tax rate of 0,5% the average price. It is possible that the proposed amendments to the Mining Tax Act for some fossils will really translate into a lower tax calculated when extracting copper and silver. Therefore, this project should be submitted to the parliament of the Republic of Poland for further processing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u222	Thank you, sir. We cordially welcome you to the Seym of the Retirement and Rencist Circle of Raniżów in Podkarpackie Voivodeship, a very numerous circle. The Sejm agreed that in the joint discussion on these items, it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. First on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, Mr Wojciech Murdzek.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u223	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The law introducing a tax on the extraction of certain minerals, which entered into force in April 2012, was introduced at a time when copper prices, silver prices were relatively high and KGHM flourished, it can be said. Then came the idea that KGHM would share with the state budget this prosperity, let's call it. However, KGHM is a company that faces major challenges. It is a global company, operating in addition to Poland on two continents, having mines there. That's right, 80%. assets are located in Poland, but this thesis on export dominance is, of course, confirmed annually. Activities, the existence of a company such as KGHM is of extraordinary economic importance for the region, for the whole Lower Silesia, especially for such towns as Lubin, Polkowice, Głogów and Legnica. It is a company, which is a very large, largest employer - 33 thousand. jobs. It is also about a number of links affecting the development opportunities of local entrepreneurs. Counting shares in local government tax, this has an extremely important translation into local government budgets. There can be no stability in the operation of the company without investment. The management of the company must be based on the ability to create this management flexibly. On the other hand, the debt resulting from the missed, at least as regards current effects, investments in the years 2011 to 2015 i.e. For the previous board of directors, at the level of 14 billion, it forces large funds to pay off their commitments today, thus reducing investment and development opportunities. KGHM is the only company in Poland currently paying so-called. mining tax. The revenue from this tax is important for the state budget. This reduction by 15% the initiative of this project is 180 million in 2019, 240 in the following years, which is not small. I think, taking into account all the advantages of this reduction, that the release of funds for investments related to the possible development of the company is an extremely important argument in favour of the need to adopt this solution. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I therefore recommend that the Parliamentary Draft No. 3312 be directed fully to further legislative work and, at the same time, reject the second draft, the print project No. 2936, since the second draft would have resulted in a very heavy burden on the budget. I believe that this solution, which is included in the draft of the members of the Club of Law and Justice, is long awaited by local communities and local authorities, and will benefit from the continued functioning of KGHM and has a positive social impact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u224	Thank you very much. Now on behalf of the parliamentary club, the Civic Platform by Mrs Ewa Drozd. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u225	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - Civic Coalition towards parliamentary bill proposals, the first of which concerns the repeal of the Act on the Tax on the Extraction of Certain Copies, and the second one - a 15% reduction. a tax on the extraction of certain fossils. It is worth reminding here that this is probably the third approach recently to the process of this change. Strangely enough, the Marshal drew this item twice from the agenda of the Sejm. Nor has he returned to today's proceedings - and we do not know what is happening to him - a government proposal to amend this law, which clearly showed the intentions of the applicants and was replaced by a parliamental project. That is why I ask you, I wanted to ask the Members of the PiS - they are not here, but I hope that you will tell them - the question is, what has happened, that right now, so urgently, without the vacathio legis, you want to introduce this law. Let me remind you that for KGHM many moments were much harder when it came to the price of copper than the situation today. So far, you haven't been in such a hurry, and you should, even to fulfill the promises made to voters on 6 October 2015 in Lubin. Let me remind the previous speaker that you promised to abolish this tax completely at that time, but about it in a moment. It is in Lubin that the candidate for Prime Minister Beata Szydło, presenting a blue file with a draft bill, which you are also not talking about, said: I assure you that if we come to power, we will immediately eliminate this unfair tax to KGHM and we will do everything to make KGHM grow and all the funds it will develop invest in the development of the company. After you've won the election, isn't that tax no longer harmful? If, as part of the electoral promises submitted, you were to lean on a project sent by the Civic Platform in February 2016 and suspend this tax, the company would be left with PLN 3.5 billion for the investment and development of the company that you are so concerned about today. You didn't suspend the tax, but you suspended the bill because to this day it wasn't considered by the subcommittee to which it was directed by your votes two years ago. For three years, you haven't made any proposal to relieve the company and fulfill the electoral promises. And probably nothing would have changed in the years to come if it hadn't been for the local elections and the willingness to take power in the Lower Silesian Seym. It was not the good of KGHM and its employees that led you to submit this project, it is simply political corruption. You were guided by your willingness not to reduce the tax in the company, and your willingness to redirect these funds to selected, so-called. Your self-governments. This is confirmed by the coalition agreement with non-participants, but also by the government's draft amendment to the law, which has suddenly disappeared. Today, the contested bill will certainly have a positive impact on the company's activities and is a small step towards fulfilling the promises made, but on one condition that these measures will not compensate for the poor staff policy pursued by the PiS government since 2016, resulting in a four-fold change in the position of President, multiple times - in the positions of Vice-Presidents and Directors of KGHM companies. In total, such actions will almost consummate the resulting profits that you are talking about, or PLN 180 million this year, so calculated in the draft amendment of the law. High Izbo! To sum up, the Civic Platform Club - the Civic Coalition requests that these two projects be sent to the finance committee as well as to join them in the third project, the print project 301, and that they be dealt with in the finance committee. You have a chance to fulfill the promises given to voters in Lubin and Lower Silesia. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u226	Thank you very much. Now Mr Stefan Rometki on behalf of the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u227	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Visitors to the Gallery! On behalf of the Kukiz Poselski Club15, I would like to say that we believe that a draft law on amending the law on the extraction of certain fossils should be passed for further processing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u228	Thank you very much. Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u229	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I have the honour to present my position on the two parliamentary projects that we are debating. The first concerns the amendment of the law on the extraction of certain fossils, the second concerns the repeal of the Act on the extraction of certain fossils and the amendment of other laws, print No 2936. Both projects discussed concern the mining tax on certain minerals, including copper and silver, introduced by the Law of 2 March 2012. This law uses a tax burden based on the copper and silver content of the concentrate produced and the average price of these metals on the day of production of the concentrate from the extracted copper or silver ore. The tax on the extraction of certain minerals was introduced in a situation where copper prices were relatively high on world markets, and in practice the only taxable person of this tax, as it turned out, is KGHM Polska Miedź SA, who paid about PLN 10 billion to the state budget as of 2012. The method of calculating tax duties adopted pursuant to the Act therefore does not depend on the financial situation of the company, the cost of mining or real income from the sale of copper and silver. The prices of copper and silver during the period of introduction of this tax were relatively high and this translated into good financial results of KGHM. For several years now, the price of copper and silver has been at a much lower level, causing the company's debt to increase. As we know, at the end of 2017 it amounted to over PLN 7 billion. I believe that this difficult situation of KGHM today does not create a tax burden on the State budget alone. It is also the result of missed large investments abroad, which so far have not brought about the expected return and have stopped important domestic investments. The first of today's projects, submitted by the Law and Justice Group, is a 15% reduction in this tax. which is expected to increase the company's involvement in domestic investments, according to the applicants. And I hope it does. On the other hand, the second draft, drawn up by the Kukiz Group of Members15, abolishes completely the tax on certain fossils and thus, it has to be stressed, meets the expectations of the local society, and at the same time it is the project that implements the promises made by the Law and Justice - and it has been made many times in subsequent electoral campaigns - that this tax will be abolished. On behalf of the club, I request that both projects be submitted to the committee for further work on them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u230	Thank you very much. Now Mrs Paulina Henning Kloska on behalf of the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u231	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present the position of the Modern Club in relation to print projects 3312 and 2936 on the mining tax of certain minerals. The issue concerns copper tax and its continued functioning in Polish tax law or not. By leaning on these projects, it is worth referring to history, by 2015, in which in the election campaign Law and Justice presented a draft law on suspension of tax on the extraction of certain fossils for a period of 10 years. Mr applicant, I would like to ask what happened to this bill that you promised in 2015. The tax was to be suspended and was not to charge the company at all. You said that in the election campaign, and then you didn't actually deliver on your promises during your parliamentary work. There's another election campaign coming up today, and you're going out on the stand again. But what happened? The tax was to be 100% suspended, and it turns out that today's project - and it is not known whether we will bring it to an end - has already reduced the tax base by 15%. It's a ridiculous way to treat voters, you can't do that. For a year, when there's an election campaign, you promise to suspend 100%. , and for the next campaign you come with a proposal on 15% And for four years, you couldn't do anything. Of course, there are many more problems in KGHM. KGHM's staff policy is an example of incompetent, irresponsible, outrageous personnel policy: 4 presidents, many vice presidents, directors. Unfortunately, there is no government representative, but I would expect you to find out how much has been spent since 2015 on checks at KGHM. Maybe you could save a lot of money here. The second problem concerns the scandals in KGHM, which we can read about in the press, which have an even scandalous dimension. KGHM authorities can't even file a notice with the prosecution, and they're demanding claims, they're demanding an explanation of cases, they're holding guilty. I am talking here about reports of the election gazeta in the case of the influential Christian in the region of the Vice President of the PiS of Mr Adam Lipiński, who was caught interfering in three invitations to tender for the combination for a total amount of over PLN 3 million. As we read in the internal audit report of KGHM, the person I am talking about contributed to a free-of-hand procedure, commissioned the chief specialist and technical security manager to write a justification for the selection of contractors, following the willingness to cooperate with the company referred to in the report. Well, that's unacceptable, ladies and gentlemen. And what are the KGHM authorities doing? Mr. Karol Kos, because he's the one who's getting fired, and KGHM won't even notify the D.A. The prosecution, after media reports, is, in fact, initiating investigations, but it is ultimately decided not to initiate an official investigation into this case. The verification activities were carried out in the direction of suspicion of an offence under Article. 305 The Penal Code, which is the disruption of the tender procedure, but it is a criminal offence prosecuted by a possible report of the victim. KGHM did not make such a notification to the prosecution, sweeping the problem under the rug and pretending that the person who participated in it alone was enough. Such staffing policy in companies of the Treasury is unacceptable. This is irresponsible, because you are also responsible for the property of the State Treasury owned by citizens, and you should be able to ensure that this property is well-managed, well-managed and that there are no irregularities in tenders and tenders. The fact that the state, which is KGHM's main shareholder, is not chasing anybody, in the government, does not touch anyone. But who would he be touching about the family of the influential PiS policy? [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u232	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u233	Modern, of course, is in favour of continuing to work on two projects in the Sejm committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u234	Six ladies and gentlemen came to the question. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting time for the question: 1 minute. As the first Mrs Iwona Krawczyk, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u235	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Today's laws are very good news for Lower Silesia and Lower Silesia. And it would be so if we hadn't tried here on two laws, only one, the one that abolished the total tax on fossils that was frozen, was in your freezer, and that hasn't been processed since 2018. Today we are discussing the issue of tax reduction. The rapporteur says that the total abolition of this would be a heavy burden on the budget. Let me remind you that this heavy budget burden is over PLN 2 billion. How does this relate to the amount of PLN 1260 million transferred to the propaganda of Polish Television? My question: What should be done in the spirit of the great [[♪ The bell ♪]] investment for KGHM to abolish the tax completely? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u236	Thank you, ma'am. Mr Grzegorz July, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u237	Mr. Marshal! You're not here, Minister! There may be someone present, but there probably isn't. Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing this tax on fossils during this first reading, while already in 2015 Law and Justice won elections in Lower Silesia under the motto of the elimination of this tax: liquidation, ladies and gentlemen. Three and a half years we're waiting for you to make it work. And what is the current situation? Namely, we are in the election period, just before the elections to the European Parliament, before the elections to the national parliament and only now, as it turns out, it is possible to give some good news to the inhabitants of this district, including the inhabitants of Lubin. As you know, more than 30,000 people are employed in Polish Copper, so it is known - I think - that it may be about helping to win the election of Minister Zalewska, who is now running for Europarlament. There's still a very short question. Namely, [[♪ The bell ♪]] will it be possible to balance the tax revenue provided for in relation to CIT and VAT on KGHM? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u238	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u239	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would also like to say hello to the Minister. Actually, I'm not hiding that I have a few questions for the Minister, but perhaps one or the other applicant will be able to answer them. I wanted to ask you what exactly is this government's position, which law the government wants to support. One or the other? If the government and club of Law and Justice want to help such a powerful company of the Treasury and say that we will save 140 million by the end of 2019, in the next - 240 million, then, please, what is the money? In your description, in the explanatory memorandum of the bill you say that you need powerful money to get the company back on its feet, has 7 billion losses and you offer it 240 million PLN? What exactly is going on here? Prime Minister Szydło lied and lied all the time. She also said in Silesia, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That she wouldn't eliminate the mines, there would be no coal from Russia, and today we have the Himalayas importing coal... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u240	Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u241	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Regardless of the fact that this tax was promised to be abolished, additionally during coalition talks in Lower Silesia after the local elections, with the active participation of Minister Dworczyk, in accordance with the agreement concluded, it was agreed that 15% this tax will be the share of local governments in which KGHM operates. Unfortunately, there's nothing like that in this project. Why - this is my question, I ask applicants - will the applicants not allow the government to deliver on this promise to local governments? After all, this is a failure to keep a promise and to undermine credibility. I'm asking for an answer. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u242	Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u243	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, because these questions have already been asked in the Chamber today on the occasion of the process on this project, I ask about the unfulfilled promise made by the candidate for the Prime Minister at the time - that was October 2015. - and then Prime Minister Beata Szydło, who declared that after the elections won by Law and Justice, you would abolish the tax on the extraction of certain minerals. The Prime Minister said at the time that this tax was an attack on money, she said that it was introduced out of helplessness, and its introduction was an act against the interests of the Polish economy. And here's the reality: Law and Justice have won the election, it's been almost four years, and the promised project, along with that blue briefcase that the Prime Minister showed us, is dead. I mean, the briefcase's gone, and the project's gone. Tonight I ask with stubbornness again: what about the declaration, [[♪ The bell ♪]] by a 2015 promise to abolish the tax on certain fossils completely? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u244	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u245	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed changes are another pre-election grip of the PiS. You are very interested in this - there are just two of you here. Are you so sure about this? KGHM directly and indirectly employs up to 100,000. employees and the reduction of the so-called copper tax is a kind of gift for that region. I would therefore like to ask whether this project has been subject to public analysis and consultation, whether it is another rapid step to support the PiS. The financial effect of the reduction in this tax will be to reduce the impact on the state budget by PLN 180 million this year and by PLN 240 million in the following years. Do applicants have any idea what means this budget reduction will be filled in? That's how you deal, give away, not give away. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're thinking about what's gonna happen to the budget next year. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u246	Mrs Elżbieta Stępień, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u247	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The pearl in the crown of the Polish economy - so should be treated by the rulers of the company, which is KGHM, with proper care. The Prime Minister who isn't here wasn't meant to be. You personally promised to abolish the fossil tax, and that's what you should be faithful to. You didn't keep your election promise, but the next question is, why didn't you do anything for three and a half years? KGHM needs funding for further development. Do you want him to take credit for this? Ladies and gentlemen! Mining infrastructure requires great support. KGHM must also deal with the elimination of the effects of arsenic pollution. How are you going to keep your promise? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Also, if you want me to refer... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u248	Thank you very much, Member. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Krzysztof Kubów, the representative of the applicants, will take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u249	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm not hiding that with a little surprise. I listened to the words, above all the politicians of the Civic Platform, about the fulfilment of the electoral promises. Maybe not all of you are from Lower Silesia, because those who are should remember perfectly how it was with great care, involvement in the fate of KGHM politicians of the Civic Platform said during the 2009 election campaign... Maybe I'll refresh your memory. [[Voice from the room: But it was already there.]] Mr Adam Szejnfeld, then in the office of shadows of the Civic Platform, said this: KGHM should be privatised. That was your plan back then. What did it turn out to be? During the 2010 election campaign, you organized a press conference in Lublin. The then Secretary of the Civic Platform arrived, and today your President, Grzegorz Schetyna, who said directly: There is no way that we can move 42% KGHM shares. What, ladies and gentlemen, have you done? How did you show that you care about KGHM? That same year, you sold 10%. shares for PLN 2 billion. This was the first stage when you showed how much you cared about KGHM well. But let's move on. Ladies and gentlemen, it was 2012, the price of copper ranged from 8.5 thousand. $10,000, up to $10,000. $1 t. That's when you decided to invest money in foreign investments on the largest mountain. What's happening today at KGHM, this is the aftermath of those decisions, i.e. decisions on foreign investments, in which 19 billion PLN has been invested in total until then. And you today have the audacity to talk about how much you're worried about this KGHM, these employees? It's because of your KGHM decisions... [[Voice from the room: Yes, and you are worried.]] ...divorced - I repeat: he struggled - with financial problems, and very strong ones. At the moment it has a debt of PLN 7 billion. I'm reminding you of these numbers. However, which is important, in your time you spoke very loudly about the fact that copper tax is very powerful, e.g. At Lubin Mining Works, you talked about the Legnica plant being destroyed. During our governments we clearly show, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, that ZG Lubin suddenly, as it turns out, can be profitable thanks to great management, which you could not do, that the Legnica plant can develop, can have a modern investment in the form of... [[Voice from the room: What are you saying?]] ...the fire of the WTR and that the inhabitants of the region can continue to work there, they can look forward to the future. And today you're talking about caring about KGHM? Ladies and gentlemen! Hypocritical, hypocritical. [[Voice from the room: We talked about your concern.]] When you announced that you were introducing a copper tax, so-called. copper tax, ladies and gentlemen, I remember it today, you said: because there is a crisis, we need money. I'm the one asking, what about the VAT mobs? They somehow had a crisis in those days when you were in charge, they didn't have when billions of zlotys were coming from the budget to the left. Shame. It's just a shame. I refer to what came out of this podium today, ladies and gentlemen. 15% It's a step, of course. We will gradually change the calculation formula within the budgetary possibilities. I'm from Lubin, I'm from the copper pit, and I know exactly how this tax affects this company. On the other hand, we are responsible for this. The country, on the one hand, you say: only 15% And, on the other hand, you're asking where we're gonna get the money for this. Well, why don't you set up a line of communication? Today, we should talk about what 15% is. He's gonna... [[Voice from the Chamber: The applicant shall answer the questions.]] ...what KGHM will use it for. None of you have asked me that question. It's sad, but it's real. And this is a picture of how worried you are about the fate of KGHM. So much for me. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Why now, not three and a half years earlier?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u250	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Parliament's draft law amending the law on the extraction of certain minerals contained in print No 3312. In the discussion, a motion was made to reject the draft law in print at first reading 2936. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Penal Code Act and some other laws (print No 3288). I ask Mr Tomasz Romekowski to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u251	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I was honored to present the Parliamentary draft law from print no. 3288 on amending the Law of the Penal Code and some other laws. The purpose of the bill submitted is above all to tackle the problem that affects every country in the world, which is the problem of corruption. The aim we have set ourselves to achieve these objectives is to increase the transparency of public life by increasing public living standards and thereby increasing confidence in the institutions of the state. How are we going to do this? We want to implement this by amending the four laws already in force in the Polish legal order, starting with the Penal Code, through the law on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator, to the law on political parties and the law on public finances. With regard to the first of these laws, namely the Criminal Code Act, corruption-related offences, with public dishonesty, concern Article. 228.231. These laws prosecute and sanction crimes related to dishonesty in public life, while in our view they do not give sufficient guarantees to protect the State from persons who have committed gross mistrust towards it, to which the State has given an opportunity, and those who have not taken advantage of this opportunity. Therefore, we propose that those convicted of corruption offences, even those who will be subject to a mandatory ban on public functions, be deprived of public rights related to the question of choice. This is also linked to the issue of working in the whole public sector, in each of the three basic segments of power: legislative, executive and judicial, as well as in public authorities at local level, or to those who work in the private sector and who want to benefit from the possibility to participate in public tenders. The aim is to ensure that they are deprived of the possibility of concluding such agreements. We want this ban to be mandatory and lifelong. Since in the Polish legal order there is no doubt about the need to deprive a person who will cause a traffic accident under the influence of alcohol, for life a driver's license, since a person who committed a pedophilia crime has a lifetime ban on contacting children, we should also treat those who have committed corruption in public life. If we don't stigmatize this, this is the kind of situation that's gonna happen. In matters of minor importance, we also provide for mandatory application of these provisions. In this case, however, we envisage limiting the possibility of exercising public rights for a period of between 1 and 15 years. I'm finishing the criminal code. Please understand the intentions of the bill designers. Those who commit corruption crimes do not give the rightful guarantees to perform their functions in public life. They have failed you, and you should not be able to fail them again. I move to the next law that we want to change through the submitted project, namely the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator. Ladies and gentlemen, as parliamentarians, Members and senators, in the current legal order, we can also be employed in commercial companies, including those whose owners or shareholders are the Treasury or local government units. The situation is, I'd say, double-curial. Firstly, one of the basic functions we perform as parliamentarians is the control function. We also control the public sector, i.e. assets belonging to the Treasury and local government units, including commercial companies owned by the State Treasury and local government. There may be some curial situations - a parliamentarian who controls himself can control himself because he is an employee of a State Treasury company. The second absurdity of this situation is the question of pathology, which can be compared to two things: the trampoline and the rotary door. During each term of office of the Sejm - the current term of office is no exception - we observe situations in which mandates: parliamentary or senatorial may be a trampoline to obtain very lucrative positions on boards of companies of the State Treasury. On the other hand, speaking of a rotating door, I mean when someone comes to the Sejm only to escape from it in a moment and take a very lucrative position in a company of the Treasury, where wages are often several times higher than the salary of a Member or Senator. We want to get rid of this pathology by means of a provision that prohibits the employment of parliamentarians, Members and Senators within 12 months following the resignation of a parliamentary or senator mandate. Another issue concerns the Law on political parties. Ladies and gentlemen, we want real disclosure of both expenditure and contracts or issues related to the maintenance of political parties, information on who supports them. Recently, we have heard that one of the newly formed political parties is supported by the Martians. I would very much like to know the name of an alien, a Polish citizen who supported this political party. We therefore demand that the quality of public life be adapted to the standards set out in our Constitution, so that issues concerning the financial flows of political parties, including those parties which receive millions of zlotys each year, are made public. We want an open register of influences on political parties' bank accounts. We also want an open register of expenditure. Citizens demand this because it is their taxes that the political parties receive subsidies. Of course not all, but the parties receiving subsidies raise the most doubts among the citizens, because it is from their taxes that most of you here in the Chamber as members of political parties receive the funds needed for your activity. A citizen has the right to know what a public penny is spent on. That is why we want two relevant registers to exist in the Public Information Bulletin: a register of payments containing in accordance with the Article. 24 Laws on political parties information who specifically contributed funds by name to the bank account of the political party and how much These are the means. We also want to know exactly what political parties spend their money on, what goods and services and whose wages. Ladies and gentlemen, the fourth and final element of the project concerns the Public Finance Act. Our Constitution in Art. 4 is much more precise. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 61 sets out the principle of transparency and transparency of public finances. Today, if a citizen wants to know what public funds are spent on, which are owned by the local government unit in which he lives, or by a specific public institution, he may use the provisions of the Public Information Act. The local government unit may also keep an appropriate register in the Public Information Bulletin. However, this is not a mandatory issue. We want to change that. We want to create a central register of contracts for all public institutions. We want two ministers to be involved in the creation of this register: the Minister of Digitisation and the Minister of Finance, who will define the standards of its structure by means of an appropriate common regulation. We want citizens to know what public funds are spent on - by means of civil law agreements, while maintaining standards concerning both the protection of personal data and the protection of commercial secrecy - but so that citizens know what public funds are spent on. Ladies and gentlemen, summing up, our bill assumes a basic objective: to increase the standard of public life in Poland. The easiest way to increase this standard is to eliminate dishonest people from public life, but above all, it is a matter of prevention, transparency of public life. And this bill guarantees it. In our draft law in art. 5 we predict that the bill will enter into force within 30 days. In this term of office of the Sejm, we will be able to learn the results of the operation of this law. I appeal to all political forces in the Polish Parliament who have the public good at heart to support this bill. Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u252	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Waldemar Buda on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u253	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on print no. 3288 - a draft law amending the Penal Code Act and some other laws. Ladies and gentlemen! The ideas, the purpose, the intentions of the designers, in this case members of the Kukiz club15, are absolutely right. We have already given a lot of evidence that raising transparency, raising public life's visibility serves all, serves the citizens, also serves politicians to protect one another and to protect one another in many aspects of their activities. And of course, we support and would like to work on all the steps that are going to expand this transparency, transparency. By moving on to individual solutions, I would like to point out that, of course, a criminal measure consisting of a ban on work or the exercise of office in state institutions is in fact concluded and is already possible today from the point of view of the criminal measures in force in the Penal Code. Of course, apart from one part, which concerns public procurement, it can be extracted. The question is, of course, to what extent the courts, to what extent the practice applies these rules, how often these rules are used. And perhaps such a systemic additional criminal measure would allow the actual frequency of those crimes that are indicated, precisely concerning corruption, bribery... They will actually be used more often. And the rule needs to be clarified as much as possible, but you can think about it, you can really consider this kind of solution. Another proposal is the proposal to ban parliamentarians from sitting, and for 12 months after their mandate, in companies of the State Treasury and in general public institutions, including local government units, where 10% shares or shares are held by a public entity. This is, of course, also the right provision, only by examining these provisions, of course, one can ask what is the scale of the problem, what is the scale of the subject matter of this provision. It turns out that it can actually be said that this is a few cases on a scale maybe even a term of office, but of course this should be considered. This would, of course, cut through links, doubts, guesses about people who actually move directly from the benches to different entities. As I say, these are exceptional situations and this provision would have really little application, but of course we are in favour of working on these kinds of solutions. Further amendments concern political parties, the payment register and the contract register. Of course, today, the law on political parties already provides for financial statements, detailed financial statements, which are addressed to the PCA every year until 31 March. And there's also data on expenses, contracts, civil law contracts. These elements are included, including those concerning the spending of subsidies, from which some political parties benefit. Secondly, of course there is a public information mode from which this information can also be obtained. Of course, the public register available without a request on the website would significantly facilitate such access. The question is also, ladies and gentlemen, whether such a register should apply only to political parties, or also to organisations that are also involved in politics, or even parliamentary clubs for which the political party is not behind, or even associations. I do not know whether the legislation that you are proposing results in such an obligation for associations that have a parliamentary club and which are in today's parliament. It seems to me that if there was such a register, it would also include such organisations. The next solution concerns the register of contracts, you can say, all public sector entities. And here, of course, the scale of this record is enormous. As we look at how far this provision could work, it is really huge. How many hundreds of thousands of entities, it seems, would be subject to these regulations. Of course, we agree that raising this transparency and transparency - today we have a register of civil law contracts, there would be all contracts, there would be contracts with details, because here we have a definition of the subject matter, the value of the subject matter of the contract - it is very desirable. The technical question is how to do this, how such an operation can be implemented seamlessly and as the provision requires continuous updating of this register, [[♪ The bell ♪]] and to create a system that would allow this, taking into account, of course, defence and security. Ladies and gentlemen! We are in favour of working on this project to clarify it in the committee, so that the transparency and transparency are actually raised in every solution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u254	Thank you. And I invite you to present the position of the Civic Platform Club - the Civic Coalition of Mr Arkadiusz Myrcha. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u255	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, I would like to present my position on the draft law contained in Seym Print No. 3288. The proposal contains two groups of amendments: on the one hand, it concerns criminal sanctions for specific crimes, it concerns bribery and paid protection, and on the other hand it concerns transparency of public finances. Hence, at the outset, such a question as to whether it should not be two separate subjects of regulation. However, this is rather a point on the side, of a technical nature, to be clarified, but worth emphasising. As you yourself have pointed out in the explanatory memorandum of the bill, the current legal system contains quite strict penalties for the offences of bribery and paid protection, art. 228.231. Nevertheless, this is still a problem for our country, as well as for many other countries. This is a destructive phenomenon for both the administration and, of course, the economy, and it is therefore appropriate to look kindly at any legislative initiative to combat these phenomena. Therefore, it is certainly necessary to take a favourable look at the proposal to introduce this criminal measure, namely the revision of the article. 39 The Penal Code and the prohibition of office in state institutions, local authorities and all the institutions listed in this Article. However, there is one issue which, of course, raises doubts, namely the prohibition of applying for public contracts. Please note that if the provision remains in this wording, it will, of course, give rise to a number of reasonable doubts, namely: Will the person in question be able to act on his own behalf or on behalf of the management bodies or supervisory bodies in which he is to sit? Will she be able to be a procurator of the company that is present in such orders? Will this ban apply to public-private partnership initiatives, to which public procurement also applies? Thus, this wording will raise a number of questions and doubts. It is certainly critical to assess the proposal for amendments to the Article. 40 The Penal Code and, on the one hand, the introduction of a mandatory criminal measure and, on the other hand, the introduction of life-long restrictions laid down in that criminal measure. If we dedicate ourselves to reading the Penal Code, it will turn out that criminal measures that have been handed down for life are based on criminal offences committed in a redecisive way or in crimes committed against minors. If we were guided by this logic, in fact, in the event of another conviction for the same type of crime, the lifetime nature of the penalty would be much more justified. We are also not in favour of judging, ruling criminal measures in a rigid manner. We believe, however, that in this area it is always necessary to leave a certain degree of discretion to the courts because sometimes even very absurd situations can happen where the court is required to rule on a particular criminal measure, which can actually distort its essence. I would also like to look with some distance at the proposals for amendments to the Act on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and of the Senator and the introduction of a ban on taking up work in the context of the employment relationship 12 months after the expiry of the mandate. I understand your intentions, but please note that such a provision we can pour out a child with a bath, because it follows that within a period of 12 months a parliamentarians experienced, prepared in substance, who know the mechanisms of public administration may not even be able to occupy a normal position, e.g. For example, a referee, at the level of local government, with investment programmes, but after the end of these 12 months he will already be able to be president of a large company. So she is sure here, I have an impression, an inaccuracy, because such a record will not achieve the goal which led you, the authors of this project. I have similar doubts about public finance legislation. Namely, it is better to focus on the fate of money from subsidies, not specifically to the institutions of political parties, because we know from experience that the money from subsidies can be used not only by political parties. Ladies and gentlemen! Despite the comments made, [[♪ The bell ♪]] on behalf of the Civic Platform-Citizen's Coalition Parliamentary Club, I state that this project is certainly worthy of leaning on it and taking care of it, which is why I am requesting that it be referred to committee work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u256	Thank you. And I invite Mr Stanisław Tyszka, the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u257	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Is this a normal state where a convicted person for corruption can perform the highest state functions? Is this a normal state where a briber can become a representative of a nation, a Member or a Senator? Is this a normal state where a briber can apply for millions or even billions of public contracts? Is this a normal country where citizens pay tens of millions of dollars each year for political parties but do not know what this money is spent on? We've been training this since the beginning of our term of office. We ask the Civic Platform, we ask the Law and Justice for what they spend their money on - not theirs, but money taken from citizens by means of party subsidies - and we do not get an answer, how much it cost to spot, spend people in Warsaw or any other kind of event. Is it a normal state where a man elected as an MEP, as a representative of a nation, can immediately, just throw a mandate, turn his back on his citizens, his constituents, and get a lucrative job in a State Treasury company? Finally, is this a normal state in which all public institutions concluding contracts with external counterparties do not need to publish information on these contracts so that every citizen knows what his money is for, because other public institutions do not have money, is spent? Kukiz.15 believes that this is not a normal country in which this kind of thing happens. And now the question is: How is it possible that such changes that we are proposing today have not been introduced in the last 30 years? It seems to us that it is easier to catch fish in muddy water. We're making two kinds of changes. Firstly, it is a question of sanctions for corruption, mandatory exclusion from public life. Like Tomasz Romanski said, there can't be such a situation... Here is a similar situation to this: if we have a person committing traffic offences under the influence of alcohol and we take away his driver's license for life, if we take away his child's opportunity for life, so do people who have dealt with taxpayers' money, with public money and behaved in the wrong way, they have broken the law, we simply have to take away the possibility of contact with that money for life. What's the story of this bill? This is a bill partly modelled on the so-called. legge anticorruzione, proposed in December ub. r. by the Italian rulers of the Five Star Movement. We, ladies and gentlemen, as Kukiz.15, will never agree to the adoption of laws at the command of another country, but we derive from the good experience of our foreign partners. And that's the kind of good experience. Corruption is still a huge problem in Poland. Just a little bit about statistics. In 2015, 18 thousand were registered. Corruption crimes, in 2016 - 26 thousand Corruption crimes, in 2017 - 36 thousand. Corruption crimes. In the Corruption Perception Index Transparency International fell from 29th to 36th place last year. We want this law and to permanently eliminate bribery from public life, and to counter corruption through mechanisms to ensure the transparency of the functioning of public institutions. The previous speaker from the Civic Platform or, I'm sorry, from Law and Justice said that this issue of rotating doors between the Sejm and Treasury companies is a matter that affects few people. Possibly, however, this does not exclude that such pathologies should be eliminated. Let me remind you that in the previous term, Mr Grad left - that was 2012 - the parliamentary mandate, he went to work in a company to build a nuclear power plant, and after 10 years of operation there is no place for this power plant, right? The Polish taxpayer spent 450 million. It's money completely thrown into the mud. During this term, Mr Jasiński or Mr Kraczkowski - one went to work in Orlena, the other went to work at PKO BP, right? We believe that we need to be honest with our own voters. If they vote for us, we must hold this mandate, not look for millions of earnings in the Treasury companies. Ladies and gentlemen! It's time to put an end to the corruption and theft arrangements. This bill is a test for all Sejm groups. I welcome the support that both the Civic Platform and the Law and Justice are in favour of referring this law to the committee. I hope we can get her settled very quickly, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because we owe it to the citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u258	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk presented his position on behalf of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats in writing, as did Mr Mirosław Pampuch on behalf of the Modern Club. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the list of people who would like to ask a question at this point? I can't see. I'm closing the list for that. I invite Mr Richard Wilczyński to ask a question on behalf of the Civic Platform - the Civic Coalition. Time - 1 minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u259	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Applicants! I understand that the fear of returning to the public life of Bartłomiej M. and other Pisiewicz is enormous. And rightly so, but the measure must be kept. I believe that the lack of the possibility of returning to the fullest public rights of a convicted person for crimes that were not a crime is at least debatable... [[They were a crime against taxpayers' money.]] ...not to say it's a terrible idea. I would point out that the Christian ethic involves forgiveness and forgiveness of sins, so that Saul could become Paul. The justice system provides for a penalty appropriate to the guilt and the possibility of failure to comply with the judgment. Even Leszek Kołakowski considered such a question as whether the devil could be saved. I believe that - what my colleague Myrch said - the separation of one [[♪ The bell ♪]] the case since the recidivism would be very, very important here. I'd ask you to think about it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u260	Thank you. I invite Mr Jarosław Goncier, the Law and Justice to ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u261	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law states that Members and Senators cannot work on the basis of the employment relationship in companies in which the Treasury has at least 10% shares, within 12 months of the expiry of the mandate. My question: What if the term of office of a Member or a Senator who was employed in such a company before his appointment and is currently on unpaid leave? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u262	Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u263	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I think I understand the designers' intentions. They are right, they require leaning over certain solutions. I believe that this project is still lacking such a restoration of true control of the Sejm over the government. That's not there. What we have right now is illusory control. I think we should think about hiring in ministries. Shouldn't some things be arranged here, too? That's the second thing. And third question: Did the designers consult the project with business environments or others, whether it was a project without consulting, just for discussion in Parliament? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u264	Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u265	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Before I begin, let me refer to the question by Mr Wilczyński. I believe that the person who has ever been convicted of corruption should not even be close to the room in which the decisions on tenders are made. That's what I think. They failed once, it's gone. We can't even tell people now whether they want to forgive or not because we don't have that right. On the other hand, about the questions. The first question is for the applicant. Mr President, if this law were already in force today, what scandals, which people who have committed such a crime, could we avoid? The point is that I, Members, but also the people who are watching this, should know what this law would give today. And the second question is to the Ministry. I know that the Act refers to a 30-day vacathio legis, but doesn't the Ministry, by chance, through its friends, plan any amendments by the governing party, so that this law will apply only after this term of office of the Sejm? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u266	Thank you. Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u267	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I, too, would like to address a fellow Member from the Civic Platform. It doesn't make any difference to me if someone stole 50 zlotys or 5 million. This one and this one have sticky hands and people like that shouldn't be allowed into public money, so there's nothing to delimit here, whether someone's a smaller or bigger briber. [[That wasn't the intention of the speech.]] Both are frauds and such a person has no social trust. Therefore, there is a question to your applicant: should anyone in this room who has no sticky hands be afraid of this bill? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u268	Mrs Elżbieta Stępień, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u269	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! My question is addressed to the Member of the applicant. Namely, I would like to ask you if you think it would be more appropriate to amend the law instead of the Penal Code. This is the Public Procurement Act in the case of persons having management functions... In the course of the legislative work, there will certainly be additional questions to be answered, whether it will be possible to be a procurator of the company, whether this penalty measure will apply only to offers submitted on its own behalf, whether this prohibition will apply to projects carried out in the framework of a public-private partnership. Therefore, if I may suggest, it would be appropriate to extend this not only to the Penal Code, but also to the Public Procurement Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u270	That was the last question. We will therefore begin with the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Michał Wójcik, because one of the questions was addressed to the Ministry. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u271	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I've got 15 minutes, right? But I'm gonna talk less. First of all, I would like to say this: This is a very important social project and I would like to thank the Members, the applicants for it. It is good that such a project has emerged, and it is good that the solutions you have presented will be the subject, as I hear, and this results from the club speeches, from further parliamentary work. We, as Law and Justice, in general as the United Right, have always fought to make public life public, to be transparent, transparent, and first of all to rebuild the position of parliamentarians and Parliament itself, Members and Senators, more generally: politicians. This is very important. And that's why this project is part of what we've always fought for as the United Right, as the Law and Justice. The fight against corruption, which has no boundaries, because corruption, you can say, is something that destroys political life, public life. This is something that we absolutely need to fight, and therefore we are very open to this proposal that you have made. Of course, you can refer to four blocks of issues, four areas of such issues, and I will, of course, address these issues in detail. On the other hand, I would like to say that there is no government position, but I am presenting the opinion of the Ministry of Justice in this regard. First of all, the case which applicants take relates to criminal measures. In principle, you are creating a new type of criminal measure, which is a kind of conglomerate, a set of different criminal measures, of course, in certain situations. These criminal measures are foreseen today by several laws, above all by the penal code of material, and are a matter of inter alia. one of the laws, where there is also a liability measure for collective entities, of course I will talk about it right away. In any case, in some cases, you're proposing a conviction for certain crimes, corruption or paid protection, or any crimes of an official nature... I'm thinking about art. 231, particularly severe, painful in the case of Article. 231 §2 is the qualified type of this crime, which I will speak about in a moment. The state accepts various types of bans, i.e. bans on work, the exercise of functions in state, local government, local government, prohibition of work, the exercise of functions in commercial companies of a certain kind, prohibition of applying for public contracts. Everything okay, but of course there's a first question: What does that mean, for example. A ban on work? Does that mean we're referring to what? Relation based on the Labour Code or e.g. Civil law relations? Because we need to clarify this in the course of further parliamentary work. That's pretty important. Case number two. This proposal can actually be part of the criminal measures that are already in place today. If we have, for example. the deprivation of public rights, the prohibition of office in the institution is precisely in this criminal measure. If we have an issue concerning the prohibition of the profession, occupation or business activity, today there is a criminal measure, then the prohibition of work or functions in companies is precisely in that regard. If we are talking about the issue of the prohibition of public procurement, then that is Today it's in this bill. Of course, this applies to collective entities, not individuals, but it always is. But I would like to say that it is worthwhile to proceed over your proposals, because it seems that these criminal measures should be extended. I have certain consequences behind my head when it comes to criminal measures. This is absolutely possible. It goes on for example. on the question of the deprivation of public rights and the prohibition of competition for public contracts. There's a matter of proceding this case. Of course, there are two threads that are very important. Namely, the court must have detailed instructions in the provision, what to do if it is to rule on this matter. Very precise indications and periods must be indicated. And here we see the flaw of these solutions, we see a loophole. The legal basis for the legislation is not fully in place. During the legislative work, we will show where. I am convinced that this is what we are able to respect, to heal during our parliamentary work. We will show exactly where we believe this legal gap exists. The issue of a mandatory life sentence for this criminal measure. There's some kind of doubt. Example of Article 231, this bag can be said, to which various types of crime are often added: over-the-counter, under-compliance. Sometimes such an act, which, once you have adopted your proposal, might result in a mandatory lifetime ban, does not have to have such a social impact in terms of social harm. It's worth thinking about. I am speaking here in the context of this article. Article 231 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013 shall We don't say "no." We say there's some kind of doubt. On the other hand, we agree on the direction when it comes to the issue of these criminal measures, but there has to be, for example, an issue. the basis for an optional judgment of a criminal measure, not just a mandatory measure. There's a gap in that, too. Perhaps something missed during the preparation of this project. The second point concerns the matter of the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator. It is a question of the incoherence of the exercise of a mandate and the performance of a specific job on the basis of the employment relationship in certain entities, institutions, companies of the Treasury during the exercise of the mandate and 12 months after that exercise. We're in. Let's discuss why not. This will also contribute to public disclosure. It's really just gonna increase transparency, transparency. It's based on the Constitution, on an article. 103, which, according to my knowledge, doesn't define boundaries. He says it's the legislator. This can even be very broad defined. We don't see the problem of discussing it. Another issue concerns political parties. As far as the second point is concerned, let's work. As far as point three is concerned, political parties, the issue of the register of contracts and payments, we are in favour, let's work. There's no problem for us. We are the formation that has always been for transparency, absolutely. We want to fight corruption, we've always fought. Law and Justice have always fought, and therefore supports discussion, debate and good practice. Let the public see that together we are trying to rebuild the position of the Polish Sejm, Senate, Polish parliamentarians, Members and Senators. We don't see any obstacles. In addition, the Council of Europe's recommendations on the fight against corruption, on the financing of parties can be found in this respect. We do not see an obstacle in this regard. Of course, it is a matter of protecting business secrets, protecting private interests or the interests of individuals. This is a matter for discussion, which we should certainly do in this regard. And the fourth issue, which raises the most serious doubts. We, let me remind you, have already discussed this in the case of the bill on the transparency of public life. There was a question of publicising certain civil law agreements. This debate must be wider. Your proposal is very broad: reveal everything. That's what we need to process. This must be the subject of separate government work. We need to think, also in committees, so as not to do more harm than good in terms of introducing such rules. In a few examples, I will show you what this kind of solution can do. Firstly, publicising agreements on state security, defence. The adoption of such a solution as you propose is dangerous from the point of view of state security itself. And that's the first thing. The second point concerns the lack of quota censorship. Even contracts concluded for very small amounts would have to be disclosed - all of them. The third issue concerns GDPR, and it is about maintaining proper security checks on the personal data set. There are administrators, ministers, general directors who are responsible for how these rules are applied. This is very important. Please note that if we accept such a solution, we will have to disclose all contracts, e.g. employee loans. That's the kind of solution. So we need to look a little wider at this. It is a matter of various kinds of secrets, ways of revealing different types of contracts, where the background is covered by attorney, counsel, bank secrecy, insurance secret. What about the IT guys? You have to be careful. In this respect, it seems that it would be appropriate to consider in the debate whether these rules should look that way, whether they should be refined or not. Or should we even expand it? We don't say no. Let's start with each other. Or maybe the parliamentary offices - because we're talking about the public finance sector - maybe the senators' offices? Why not? Let's start with each other, expose everything. Let's work on it. Finally, I would like to thank you very much for this proposal. We, as the Ministry of Justice, accept it with great kindness, we will work on it. However, let us try to work out in committees solutions that will not harm our state, the security of the state - I am talking about this fourth element - and will not harm the beneficiaries, among others. employees we would really have to disclose all contracts to. That could be against some of the rules. But thank you again, as I say, very kind to this. We have always fought, fought, and fought corruption. That's why we're gonna be working on these regulations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u272	The representative of the applicants, Mr Tomasz Romankowski, will take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u273	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank you very much for the questions and comments that appeared during the speeches of the representatives of the clubs. I have written down practically all the comments you have made. Some of them repeated, but they just looked at the same issue from a different point of view, and that's good. First line. What is the difference between this criminal measure and the criminal measures we have so far in the legal order that are set out in the Penal Code? It is, above all, one essential feature: its obligation. This has also occurred in many of your questions. It was, for example. The question is whether one offence of corruption should already be used as a criminal measure or whether it should be for two crimes. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if that's the kind of question you'd ask about the driver who killed a man under the influence of alcohol. Well, maybe it's only after two murders that we get rid of his driver's license for the rest of his life. Is it only then that a paedophile will be deprived of contact with children when he rapes a child for the second time? [[These are crimes.]] It's public money. If someone has once committed crimes on our common funds, he is to be deprived of the right to contact these funds for the rest of his life. [[Applause]] He has abused confidence in the citizens and towards the state and must be deprived of contact with these means for the rest of his life. I am a great advocate of Mr Myrcha's comments on the extension of the catalogue of persons in matters relating to public procurement. Let's expand this directory. This is indeed a very good point, and I hope that during the work in committee we will work together to take into account the members of individual commercial companies' bodies, as well as the procurators, not only the owners of one-man business activities, specific entrepreneurs. Of course, we're talking about public procurement. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm checking my notes. I've already answered that question. There was a question from the Member about the separation of the legislative authority and the executive authority. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we as Kukiz.15 are in favour of the separation of all authorities: the legislative power, the executive authority and the judicial authority. In fact, if Kukiz15 wins the next parliamentary elections, we will lead to such a situation that parliamentarians will not sit on government benches, with all due respect to the Minister. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there was also a question of what corruption issues we could avoid if these rules were in force. I am not a holy spirit, but, in theory, we could avoid all of us, because the fear of depriving a person of significant public rights who commits corruption crimes the first time and feels unpunished for this, maybe would have avoided everyone. But I say maybe. On the other hand, from the point of view of the State, prevention, i.e. awareness of the inevitability of the penalty, and the issue related to the consequences of sanctions, in this case compulsory deprivation of public rights, the possibility of operating very widely in public life, not only through employment relations or civil relations within public institutions, but also in the field of conducting business activities, very widely: from conducting individual business activities through in general employment relationships or civil relations within a commercial company or other private companies. This is, in my opinion, fundamental and important. Surely many people in this way of dishonesty could be eliminated from public life, which would benefit the state and society. As far as the ban on work is concerned, as I have already said, we are indeed in favour of an extended approach to this issue. Here, the Minister has made a good point, not only about the employment relationship, but also about a number of other civil relations between a person who provides specific services, whether for a work contract, where there is a question of the performance of a particular job, or for the proper operation of the order... In general, we would like to approach this issue in a very broad way. As far as contract matters are concerned, as I said in my speech, we do not want to violate trade secrets, we do not want to violate personal data issues, nor do we want to add - and I have not said this here before, and I agree with the Minister - to violate State security issues. Indeed, in the committee's work, we must address this issue, but in order to make it clear to you in a simple way, I would say that we want to create a register covering data, including those relating to contracts, relations between citizens and public institutions, to which citizens can already have access under the Act on access to public information today. Of course, information on the sensitive sphere of functioning of the state, i.e. the issue of state security, today citizens cannot obtain, cannot learn about issues which, from the point of view of our vital interests, are urgently guarded, while data on simple, even the smallest amounts, in my opinion, should be available. I am a strong advocate of putting particular emphasis on the issue of the sum that we, as parliamentarians, Members and Senators, spend in the framework of our parliamentary offices, so that, as far as this register is concerned, we really take the excellent first place. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u274	Thank you. And I invite Mr Richard Wilczyński, the Civic Platform - the Civic Coalition, who has tabled a request for correction. Mr President, one minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u275	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Applicants! We're no different about the crime of corruption. On the other hand, we differ in the assessment of the consequences of this crime. I maintain my statement that the prospect of not being able to return to society in the full extent of public rights is terrible from the point of view of the citizen. Therefore, this must be limited to a certain category of cases. You have rightly exchanged them, and I am not questioning them, but I have called for you to consider the radicality of your proposal in the article. Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Three, and that's it. If we are to have a parliamentary debate culturally, then I ask that, in a situation where someone is expressing his view, different from yours, do no insinuations against this background. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u276	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u277	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Poselski Club I am pleased to present the position of the club regarding the parliamentary draft law amending the Penal Code Act and some other laws, print no. 3288. The purpose of the proposed project is to introduce a mandatory criminal measure in the Penal Code for persons convicted of corruption offences in the form of a ban on employment and the exercise of functions in state institutions, local and professional authorities, and in companies governed by commercial law where the Treasury or local government units have at least 10% or more directly or indirectly by other entities. shares, including the loss of passive electoral right to perform the functions mentioned above, and the prohibition to apply for public contracts. Corruption is one of the greatest threats to citizens' prosperity and freedom. It is also a threat to the sovereignty of the state. Polish people and Poles suffered many times because of corruption in our country. Therefore, it must be fought decisively. The proposed solution is heading in the right direction. Those who offer and take bribes must fear the consequences of their actions. In addition, the exclusion of persons convicted of corruption offences from public life will prevent them from continuing to engage in this criminal activity. Unfortunately, in other points of the submitted project you can see the ignorance and inconsistencies of the designers. It is proposed not to combine the mandate of a Member or a Senator with the work of State Treasury companies or local government units, while the main corruption threat arises at the interface between the state and private business. However, the designer does not take any action in this respect. It is also important to consider whether we want to deal only with professional Members and indirectly with this proposal. The proposed obligation for political parties to keep and keep up to date a register of payments and a register of contracts is unnecessary due to the annual reports published by the State Election Commission. In addition, it completely ignores the present and important in Polish association policy. The designers of Kukiz'15 must be asked whether they deliberately forgot to impose such an obligation on themselves. It was reckless. Or hypocrisy? As you can see, the submitted project contains unhappily and unnecessary ideas from which to give up. However, they must not cross the concept of exclusion from public life of those convicted of corruption offences, and therefore Members and Modern Members will vote in favour of directing the project to further work in committee. We hope that there it will be subject to the necessary changes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u278	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats our position on the draft law amending the Penal Code Act and some other laws, print no. 3288. The proposed revision of the Penal Code is designed to strengthen criminal sanctions for corruption offences as well as to increase the transparency of public life and eliminate potential areas of conflict of interest for public persons. The authors of the project propose to introduce in the Code a criminal measure in the form of a ban on work and the exercise of functions in state institutions, local and professional authorities, as well as in companies governed by commercial law where the Treasury or local government units have at least 10% or more directly or indirectly by other entities shares, including the loss of passive electoral right to perform these functions, as well as the prohibition to apply for a public contract. It will be a criminal measure applied by courts in the event of conviction for the offences referred to in Article. 228.231. Except the so-called. minor accidents will be ruled for life, and in minor cases for a limited period of time: from one year to 15 years. The new measure is intended to completely eliminate those convicted of corruption from public life. The proposed solutions are largely modelled on the Italian anti-corruption law adopted last year by Parliament in this country. High Izbo! There is no doubt that transparency in public life and the elimination from public functions of those convicted of corruption is an important and necessary idea. However, the question needs to be asked what is the situation where we have politicised courts subject to a specific politician. Let us be clear that the situation in Poland is becoming more and more so. Will the changes proposed in this draft today not lead to a situation in which the opponents, the opposition, will eliminate themselves from public life with the help of obedient judges, condemning the opponents in falsified trials? Thus condemned inconvenient to the authorities politicians or self-governments under this law will be banned from performing public functions, perhaps even for life. This will create a very convenient tool for power to cut out political opponents. It's not about defending corrupt public officials today. We all agree that they should be punished and that we need transparency in public life. The idea is to understand that solutions such as those proposed in this project are possible and will properly fulfil their role in a country where courts are independent, where everyone can count on a fair, pressure-free process from politicians. Is Poland under the rule of the PiS such a country?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u279	Marshal of the Sejm, based on art. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, he directs the Parliamentary draft law amending the Penal Code and certain other laws, contained in print No. 3288, to the Extraordinary Commission - although, as you, Mr. Marshal, see, in these legal observations submitted to this project in connection with the Penal Code, my argument that it should be a codification committee is fully justified - to change the codifications for consideration. [[The sooner the better.]] We are returning to the examination of item 5 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on amending the Act on the Tax on the Extraction of Certain Copies. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Parliament's draft law amending the Act on the Tax on the Extraction of Certain Copies, contained in print No 3312, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - one-off payment to pensioners in 2019, - on the amendment of the Pharmaceutical Law Act and the Act on medicinal activities. The reports shall be in prints 3342 and 3348, respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in these cases the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items of the agenda listened to five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft Act on the ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of the Republic of Macedonia, signed in Brussels on 6 February 2019 (prints Nos 3299 and 3340). Mr Michał Jach will present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u280	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft Act on the ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of the Republic of North Macedonia, signed in Brussels on 6 February 2019, print No 3299. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The decision on the accession of the Republic of North Macedonia to NATO was taken at the NATO Summit in Brussels in 2018. It confirms the continuation of the policy of the Open Alliance Door. Poland is a great advocate of continuing the open door policy, because the expansion of NATO borders increases security throughout Europe and leads to the unification of the European continent in the field of common security. NATO members who have decided to join undertake to comply with NATO standards, which also make them more resilient to the influence of third countries. I am thinking, above all, of Russia, which is willing to work in different places, including Europe, seeking political instability. By adopting new members, NATO extends its security guarantees to further countries, thereby strengthening democratic structures, but at the same time requires compliance with binding standards in both internal and international policies. The accession of the Republic of North Macedonia to NATO will increase security especially in the Western Balkans region, the region which has been the last in Europe to suffer war. We are a country that supports very strongly the initiatives of the next countries that want to join our alliance. When we decided to accept Montenegro to NATO 2 years ago, Poland was in a group of countries that ratified the agreement as soon as possible. Now we would also like to ratify this agreement as soon as possible to continue this trend, but at the same time show that we want to accept another, already 30, NATO member. It is worth noting that in addition to issues relating to the security and unification of Europe, Poland, thanks to NATO's expansion to Northern Macedonia, can obtain an additional market for the production of our arms industry, as Macedonia, when joining NATO, committed itself to modernising and intensifying the financing of its own armed forces. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Joint Committees: National Defence and Foreign Affairs after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 3 April 2019 request the High Sejm to approve the draft law from print no. 3299 without amendments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u281	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Wojciech Buczak will speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u282	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the draft Act on the ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of the Republic of North Macedonia, signed in Brussels on 6 February 2019. High Izbo! The bill concerns the consent of the President of the Republic of Poland to ratify this protocol. The decision on the accession of the Republic of North Macedonia to NATO was taken at the NATO Summit on 11 July 2018. It confirms the continuation of the open door policy and demonstrates the strengthening and unification of the European continent. The entry into force of the protocol will not have negative social, economic, financial or legal consequences for the Republic of Poland. The text of the Protocol does not deviate from the text of the protocols used on the occasion of the previous NATO enlargements. The existing decision-making and cooperation mechanisms of the Member States within NATO are also unchanged. After the Republic of North Macedonia becomes a party to the North Atlantic Treaty, under the provisions of the Treaty, Poland will be obliged to provide military support to a new member of the Alliance if necessary. High Izbo! NATO enlargement policy is fundamental to the expansion of the security and stability zone in Europe and around its borders. It will bring tangible stability for the whole of the Western Balkans, which will benefit the safety environment around our country. High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the adoption of the Act on the ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of the Republic of North Macedonia. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u283	Thank you. I invite Mrs Bożena Kaminska to present the position of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u284	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Civic Platform-Citizen Coalition Club on the draft Act on the ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of the Republic of North Macedonia, signed in Brussels on 6 February 2019, print No 3299. Ladies and gentlemen! The decision on the accession of the Republic of North Macedonia to NATO was already taken at the NATO Summit on 11 July 2018. We know that Greece has blocked Macedonia's membership of NATO for many years due to the claim of the right to the name of Macedonia, because there is a region of the same name in the territory of that country. On 11 January 2019, the Macedonian government voted for an amendment to the Constitution, which provides for a change in the name of the State to the Republic of North Macedonia. The pursuit of NATO enlargement is crucial in shaping the security zone, in particular in the Western Balkans, and the stability of Europe with its borders. It is worth noting that a relatively politically stable yet economically prosperous region of the Western Balkans, by extending NATO to its territory, becomes a security guarantee within a united Europe. Poland actively supported security in the Balkans before entering the North Atlantic Alliance. It was the Polish army and Polish soldiers who participated in the Partnership for Peace programme in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The KFOR works to this day. He began his mission in the Balkans in 1999. Now there are about 230 Polish soldiers in Kosovo who are still carrying out this mission. I would also like to point out that the admission of new members to NATO is intended to extend the existing security zone to new countries. This phenomenon is accompanied by the strengthening of the existing democratic structures in those countries and the obligation for the new members of the North Atlantic Alliance to comply with relevant internal and external policy standards. The Republic of North Macedonia has also committed itself that it will be committed by 2024. [[♪ The bell ♪]] 2% GDP for defence and 20% for military modernisation. The accession of the Republic of North Macedonia to NATO represents a positive change in the security environment around our country, encouraging opportunities to expand political, economic and bilateral cooperation, as well as an important step on the path of the Republic of North Macedonia to European integration. The Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition is in favour of the adoption of the Act on the ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of the Republic of North Macedonia, print No 3299. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u285	Thank you. Mr Piotr Apel, Kukiz.15. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u286	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! This is indeed an important day, because one of those countries that have recently been in a difficult relationship with NATO is going to the North Atlantic Agreement. It is important that NATO, the North Atlantic Pact, is expanding. It is good that Poland actively participated in this project, including its activities. I hope that this will continue and that this will not end in the Republic of North Macedonia itself, but it will also cover other neighbouring countries. This, this situation, this moment, is important. not only because another country joins this peaceful yet military relationship. The important thing is that the conflict that lasted for at least a dozen years, the conflict for a name ended. It is important to note and congratulate the people of the Republic of North Macedonia on such decisions rather than on other decisions. All the best, Republic of North Macedonia, all the good, the people of North Macedonia. I am pleased that this law has passed unanimously in the committee, and I hope that it will also pass unanimously in the plenary room. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u287	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Marek Sawicki, a club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u288	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Speaking on behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I join the previous statements. Everyone here unanimously expresses their support for this law, for this ratification. The fact that NATO is strengthening in the Balkans is important not only for Europe's security but also for the entire North Atlantic zone. By expressing my support, I inform you that as a club, we will vote in favour. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u289	Mr Radosław Lubczyk will present his position on behalf of the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u290	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! 2019 may be for the Republic of North Macedonia our year 1999. 20 years ago, we joined the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, popularly known as NATO, founded 70 years ago. We parliamentarians, today agreeing to the ratification by President Andrzej Duda of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of the Republic of North Macedonia, signed in Brussels on 6 February 2019, can further stabilise the geopolitical and geomilitary situation in the Balkan region and strengthen the long-term cooperation of NATO members, demonstrating our commitment and serious treatment of international provisions. We recall ourselves 20 years ago when we were hoping to enter new international structures and build a position on the international stage. Let us be those who extend their hand and confirm the application of the open door rule. Let us remember our own experiences, benefits and feelings of security and stability of the military situation in Europe when Poland, the Czech Republic and Hungary joined the ranks of the post-Soviet bloc in 1999 and witnessed our place in a democratic, united and strong Europe. The adoption of the Republic of North Macedonia is another step to continue pro-European integration, which in the years to come will give us great opportunities to expand our contacts and experience through bilateral cooperation on different economic, scientific and military and cultural levels. The agreement to ratify this Protocol will not result in any additional expenditure, nor will any obligations be imposed on Poland other than those provided for by the Treaty on each member, nor will it impose any obligations on entities governed by national law. Since the Treaty concerns military agreements, this requires the application of the ratification procedure with the consent of the Act in accordance with Article. Article 89 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. I call on Members of Parliament to show the political class and unanimously support the bill approving the ratification of this protocol. Such an act of solidarity and seriousness will help to restore the international image of Poland and contribute to the expansion of NATO members, giving the Western Balkans a chance to further stabilise, deepen its relationship with Europe and build a sense of security, support and understanding on the part of the States Parties to the Treaty, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The words of former US President Barack Obama are: We will defend our allies in NATO, each ally. In this Alliance there are no old members and new members, less important and more important partners - there are just allies. Simple and obvious. And we will defend the territorial integrity of every single member of the Alliance. The Modern Posel Club will vote in favour of this law and I encourage everyone here to do so too. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u291	Thank you very much. Would Minister Piotr Wawrzyk like to speak? No. I understand that Mr Michał Jach will no longer speak as rapporteur for the committee either. I therefore close the discussion. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: Presentation by the President of the Council of Ministers of the document: The road safety status and the activities carried out in this regard in 2017 (print No 2595) together with the position of the Committee on Infrastructure (print No 2721). Minister Adamczyk will present the document, but unfortunately there is no Minister. I'm declaring a three-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 minutes 02 hours 17 min 03]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 9 of the agenda. I invite the Minister of Infrastructure Andrzej Adamczyk to present a document.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u292	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, please. I have the honour to present a document on road safety and the activities carried out in this area in 2017. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, please. Ladies and gentlemen! In accordance with the provisions of the Article. 140e paragraph. 3 and 4 of the Road Traffic Law Act I present to you the most important report on road safety monitoring and implementation of road safety improvement policy in Poland for 2017. The National Road Safety Council, which I chair, continues to take and take action in 2017 in every area of road safety, both in terms of education, supervision, engineering and medical rescue and post-accident care. Observing a number of positive developments in the context of safety on Polish roads in 2017, it should be stressed that progress made over the last decade cannot be a reason for full satisfaction. And we don't have that satisfaction. We don't have that satisfaction... [[Voice from the room: Unfortunately.]] ...because I think that at no time should anyone be satisfied in a situation like this when at least one person loses his life on the road. We will have full satisfaction then, the politicians in charge will have when there will be no accidents. I hope that this will happen as the European Commission imagines, and this has recently been said by Commissioner Bulc at the informal summit of transport ministers in Bucharest, that in 2050 we hope for a Europe without road accidents. Then, if so, you can talk about satisfaction. We have a feeling of a full task, because we are trying to carry out all the projects that reduce and may reduce the number of road accidents, but this feeling does not equal satisfaction. The best performing countries' experience in the area of road safety indicate that measurable results can only be achieved by combining dynamic development of safe road infrastructure with activities undertaken in parallel in other areas of road safety management, raising awareness of the risks of all road users, initiating new and enforcement regulations, improving the emergency and post-accident care system and long-term programming, implementation and monitoring of the actions undertaken. I believe that the conclusions of the 2017 report will help to further integrate the road safety environment in Poland and help the National Road Safety Council to coordinate the efforts of partners and allies to improve safety on Polish roads even more effectively. The 2017 National Road Safety Council report is a kind of thank-you to all partners and stakeholders working for road safety for their efforts and encouragement to continue their work - with humility and responsibility. Let me repeat once again the argument that the fight against road accidents and their consequences is jointly the responsibility of us, all citizens, road users. When presenting the 2017 report, I would also like to encourage the High House to continue its work to improve the situation on Polish roads. Success or failure will affect all of us, because road safety is an area that affects absolutely each of us. The report we are talking about today contains, above all, a general picture of road safety in 2017. It takes into account the most important characteristics of road events, assessment of the situation at country and voivodship level. Of course, in any case, it is equipped with proposals and information on actions affecting road safety implemented in 2017 by the members of the national council and other bodies operating in this area, finally the state of implementation of the recommendations for the future identified in the 2015 report and the conclusions of the 2017 National Council Secretariat's evaluation study on the actions undertaken so far in implementing the 2013-2020 National Road Safety Programme. And now to tell you what we look like in front of other countries of the European Union. The number of deaths in the European Union decreased by around 2% in 2017. According to data from the European Commission, 25 300 people were killed on EU roads in 2017. 2831 people were killed in Poland during this period. Poland continued to be among the countries with the highest risk of life and health in road traffic in 2017. Croatia, Bulgaria and Romania were in a similar situation. The average level of risk on the European Union's roads is without a small five killed out of 100,000. Inhabitants, this is 4.9. In Poland, this indicator was more than 7.5 killed in 2017 - I am sorry that we give it in absolute numbers - at 100,000. residents. However, it should be pointed out that since 2008 the risk of death in road accidents has decreased by 48% in our country. And finally, the data that is the saddest. In 2017, there were 32 760 road accidents and there were 904 fewer than in 2016 2831 people killed on the road, 195 fewer than in 2016. 39 466 people were injured, 1300 fewer than in 2016. 11 103 people were seriously injured at 1006 less than in 2016. And if we talk about satisfaction, go back to it - I heard the word from the Parliament hall of one of the Members - even though these are obvious declines, I think that no one in Poland has a sense of satisfaction, because it is 32 760 road accidents too many, because 2831 deaths too many, because without a small 40 thousand. wounded in road accidents too much and by more than 11 thousand. seriously injured in traffic accidents too much. The report further mentions pedestrian accidents. They accounted for 25% all accidents. Their number decreased by 3%. Side collisions, frontal collisions and issues... The year 2017 was more safe for drivers compared to 2016. In this category, 86 people were killed by road users. The main causes of accidents which were the drivers of which in 2017 were primarily the failure to give priority to the journey, the lack of adjustment of speed to traffic conditions, incorrect behaviour towards pedestrians, the absence of safe distance between vehicles, incorrect overtaking. The main causes of accidents caused by pedestrians in 2017 are: careless access to the roadway directly in front of the driving car, crossing the road in an unauthorised place, access to the road from behind the vehicle, obstacles, entry to the roadway on a red light. In 2017, intoxicated road users: drivers, pedestrians and passengers participated in almost 2800 road accidents. 341 people were killed and 3,150 were injured. In 2017, there was a reduction in the number of accidents on all types of roads with the exception of expressways and motorways. On motorways the number of accidents increased by 15% , and on express roads by 34% compared to 2016. In some ways, this undermines the theory that we have coined over the past few years, that the more expressways and motorways there are, the less accidents there are. Unfortunately, it turns out that the increase in the number of accidents on roads of this kind is not enough that it is noticeable, it can be said that very large. Someone's gonna say it's intimidating and there's not gonna be a polemic area here. In 2017, there was a reduction in the number of accidents on all road types. I've told you this before. As in previous years, most accidents occurred on district roads, although they represent less than 30% of the length of all roads in Poland. Therefore, our actions, the actions of the Government of Law and Justice in terms of financing investments on district roads are of the utmost importance and need. We hope that they will also be effective. The report provides detailed information, together with the results achieved, on the 38 main actions taken by the members of the National Road Safety Council in 2017. In short, I would like to point out some of them. The first one is the evaluation of the national BRD programme for the 2013-2020 period. An evaluation study was carried out on behalf of the secretariat of the National Council in 2017 to gather all relevant information on the effectiveness of the actions undertaken under the National Road Safety Programme. It was also assumed that the document would be a monitoring tool for this programme. On the basis of the conclusions drawn from the survey, the secretariat of the National Council made the necessary modifications to the implementation programmes in April 2018. This resulted in the adoption of a new implementation programme for the years 2018 to 2019. The results of the evaluation study of the national programme together with the new implementation programme for the years 2018 to 2019 shall be publicly available on the website of the National Council. The aim of the study was to increase the efficiency of the project actions to improve road safety. Another action I would like to mention is the introduction of provisions on communication education in the new curriculum basis for teaching pupils in kindergartens, primary and secondary schools. For the first time in the general education system, the content of communication education was included in the various types of schools. Their scope has been extended to the basis of pre-school and primary education. For the first time, the content of communication education will also be communicated to pupils in secondary schools. The next issue is the nationwide campaign for unprotected road users: let's be safe on the road - pedestrian vs. driver, driver vs. pedestrian. The campaign was addressed to the general public, in particular those aged 18 and over 40. Its direct aim was to raise awareness of vulnerable road users and drivers. There was also a campaign addressed to young drivers regarding excessive speed: Kierowiecco, slow down! You're leading a life! The campaign was carried out on the Internet, especially in social media, due to the high activity of the target group in social media. Its aim was to raise awareness of young drivers and call for changes in their attitudes and behaviour to reduce the number of accidents involving them and the number of deaths and injuries. An educational project was also prepared and carried out for cyclists and drivers over the age of 60: 60+ safe in road traffic. I have participated in many events related to this project myself. Participated in them [[♪ The bell ♪]] many people over the age of 60 and many cyclists. From year to year... Your marshal, given the gravity of the problem, I'm asking for two more minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u293	Okay, I'm extending the time by two minutes, but no more.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u294	Thank you very much, Marshal. Running an educational project dedicated to cyclists after 60 years of age is effective. The National Council will continue to implement this project consistently. A common timetable for road safety activities can be found on the website of the National Road Safety Council. It was established as a result of the findings of the National Council on 21 December 2016. Developing guidelines for correct lighting of pedestrian transitions. Please note, ladies and gentlemen, that there is a change here. Finally, parameters have been developed, which should correspond to the installation illuminating pedestrian crossings. This will certainly contribute - I am convinced - to increasing the safety of pedestrians on the road, especially in this most difficult period of November-December. This is a time when unfortunately the most pedestrians on our roads die. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Finally, I ask the High House to refer to the report submitted and, I hope, its adoption. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u295	Thank you very much. I would also like to ask the floor of Mr Jerzy Polak, who will present the opinion of the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u296	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! As rapporteur for the committee, I would like to refer to this report on road safety and the activities carried out in this area in 2017. It was considered in July 2018. It was established at the Secretariat of the National Road Safety Council, which is an institution established within the infrastructure department, and is primarily the implementation of the statutory obligation imposed by the Road Traffic Law. In accordance with the provisions of the Act cited above, the President of the National Road Safety Council, the Minister responsible for Transport, shall report annually to the Council of Ministers, then the Prime Minister shall report to the Sejm and the Senate by the end of April on the state of road safety and the activities carried out in this regard in the given year. I would like to refer to the key issues that are included in this report, referring to some of its essential systemic elements, as well as to the discussion that took place at the meeting. Firstly, the authors of the report point out that improving road safety largely depends on very good and correlated cooperation between the various units and institutions at both central and regional level, which deal with or have to deal with the issue of road safety in terms of their responsibilities. The National Road Safety Council, as can be seen clearly from this report, is taking very concrete actions which, as a rule, combine these joint efforts of different actors in order to increase the efficiency of the impact on road safety in a given issue of the causes of accidents. It goes on for example. decisions to strengthen cooperation between the National Road Safety Council and this regional level or to exchange information. Secondly, the National Road Safety Council, in addition to taking action on a large scale every year, and many emergency measures, also assumes a greater share of the responsibility for the state of road safety. This report also signals some new threats and challenges that arise in the demographic and statistical trends of the BRD, i.e. increasing issues of increased safety risk of road users 60+, while reporting on projects and actions already undertaken on this issue in the most vulnerable voivodships or regions. An important element mentioned in the report is the improvement of road infrastructure or information about additional efforts made, so that through Polish works e.g. Scientific research indicates new directions for the development of road engineering to improve road safety for vulnerable road users, like pedestrians, like cyclists. Here we would have to refer to the substantively very good recommendations of the National Council on guidelines on correct lighting for pedestrian transitions, start working on guidelines on safe cycling infrastructure. The document submitted shows that the main objective of the action is to significantly reduce the number of accidents and their victims in the implementation of large-scale educational activities focused on the main causes of accidents according to data. It goes on for example. o campaigns concerning excessive speed for traffic participants in the group from 18 to 24 years or improvement of pedestrian relations - driver - pedestrian. The state of road safety in voivodships is presented in this report in the form of so-called. voivodship cards identifying the main problems in the criminalised area and drawing conclusions. These voivodship cards were prepared according to the models used in the reports of several previous years, which allows to compare the current situation of individual voivodships, as well as to observe changes over several years. In response to the requests for similar reports from previous years, the National Road Safety Council document contains much more information on the actions undertaken in 2017, which had an impact on road safety, as well as on the activities of those entities which are not part of the statutory composition of the National Road Safety Council. I would like to refer here to some statistics. Minister Andrzej Adamczyk has already mentioned this. I would like to complete these very much speaking figures of the Minister. Firstly, the report shows that the structure of the share of accidents has not changed significantly compared to 2016, but there is a slight downward trend in each group. The exception is stagnation in a group of accidents involving motorcyclists. The very high risk for vulnerable road users, especially pedestrians, is still a very characteristic problem of road safety in Poland. The year 2017 was another year in which unfortunately the number of accidents caused by pedestrians entering the road in red light increased significantly. Also, which is worth noting, in 2017 by 2% The proportion of fatalities in accidents that were classified as so-called has increased. hiking while reducing the proportion of fatalities in most other major types of accidents. This indicates the need for new preventive action to improve the safety of this least protected group of road users. A slight increase in the share of rear collisions, which may indicate that the distance between vehicles is too low while driving too fast, and that the attention of the drivers is dispersed. Here they bow down, in quotes, those participants of the movement who use a mobile phone or other devices that distract attention on the road. Since the data of the Central Statistical Office also indicates that in Poland the number of people over the age of 60 is increasing, the report deals very well, and a little more attention than in previous years on issues related to road accidents of this age group, as well as appropriate preventive measures. This is a very good direction of work, which results even from these demographic conditions. The Secretariat of the National Road Safety Council has carried out a lot of activities. I have here a large number of different types of activities. I would like to make more reference to some of the issues that were presented at the committee meeting, where a very interesting discussion took place. I would rather focus on the issues raised by Members in this debate. First of all, the implementation of the recommendations of the Supreme Audit Chamber in the 2016 reports entitled: The safety of pedestrians and cyclists on public roads. Secondly, the quality of the reflective elements available on the market for pedestrians. Thirdly, the technical condition of the vehicles, in particular the condition of the tyre and its impact on road safety. Technical status control system. Accidents involving persons over 60 years of age. Remedies. Accidents involving pedestrian participants in the movement. Verification of the examination system for applicants for drivers, in particular in the field of tests on driving certificates for heavy goods vehicles and motorcycles. Construction and modernisation of road infrastructure that takes into account the needs of all groups of road users. It is also a matter of action within the framework of the "Programme for the Elimination of Dangerous Places'. From what I remember, it was very strongly stressed here that guidelines were needed to improve the lighting of pedestrian transitions and the organisation of safe road traffic. Moreover, this element, which is the construction by local authorities, of course in the form of local investments, cycling paths, will be very strongly imposed in the coming years on these unprecedented expenditures of the National Self-Government Road Fund in terms of raising the standard of local roads, their construction, reconstruction or modernisation. Even if yesterday, Minister, these issues were raised in the context of the NIK report on the implementation of local road construction tasks in the years 2016 and 2019. It is also part of road safety with multiple higher investment costs for local roads. In conclusion, I would like to say that the Members of the Committee on Infrastructure and invited guests welcomed the 2017 document presented by the Secretary of the National Road Safety Council, which is discussed here. As in previous years, it has been stressed that it has been carefully prepared and provides a very reliable basis for analysing various information on actions taken to improve safety on Polish roads. This document allows you to see what is the scale of the problem of road safety in Poland also against the background of other countries. In the absence of time, I do not duplicate some information here as regards the example of Poland against other European countries. Minister Adamczyk has already mentioned this. Good decisions, which are made on the basis of qualitative, good road events data, systematic research on the behaviour and behaviour of traffic participants, as well as the smooth functioning of the RTD system, should translate into the effectiveness of measures aimed at saving human life and health, which are the overarching objective of the functioning not only of the National Road Safety Council and the Ministry of Infrastructure, but also of many other actors cooperating on these issues also at regional level, at local level. The Committee on Infrastructure, which I would like to stress, welcomes and welcomes the report submitted by the National Road Safety Council. The road safety status and the activities carried out in this area in 2017, presented by the Minister of Infrastructure Andrzej Adamczyk, therefore I recommend that he be adopted by the High House. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u297	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Bogdan Rzoniec will speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u298	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Membership! Ladies and gentlemen! We are debating very important information on a case that costs us all very dearly. Let's look at the cost of collisions, accidents, events, human dramas. Unfortunately, we drive better cars, more expensive cars. [[How sad is that?]] Unfortunately, because it causes later that the cost of road events is very high. Compared to GDP, this is a very fast-growing sum. Well, first it was 1.2 GDP in Poland, later 1.6, and the cost of road events for 2017 is expected to be about PLN 50 billion and it will already be 3% GDP. We have better roads, better cars, and we still have a problem with drivers who make mistakes, with people who make mistakes. As this report shows, there are still a lot of pedestrian accidents, and there are still many accidents involving young drivers. It's all very expensive for Poland. If we could save even a few billion zlotys from the amount of these losses, we would be richer, there would be fewer human dramas. Road investments, which are coming, and a very appropriate decision to support local governments through investments in municipal roads, in district roads, good bridge solutions - all of this, of course, is most desirable by the local government side. Nevertheless, we continue to see this trend with regard to the countries of the European Union. That number's 3,000. Killed on Polish roads, we are situated in the end of the countries of the European Union. Unfortunately, there are also dramas related to children among these dramas. I hope that the Self-Government Road Fund will also help to address the burning problem of children's access to schools, churches, public places, because we have not dealt with this yet. Among these events, which cost very dearly to Poland and Poles, are precisely those related to side collisions, are those resulting from excessive speed, from what was said yesterday at the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, and presented this material by one of the Supreme Audit Chamber's inspectors, that good transport plans are missing in many local authorities or that there are very illegible road markings. There are even certain self-wills in this matter, as this was presented yesterday at the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee, when it was said that there are situations where there are just too many road signs and they are simply illegible to the ordinary road user. I think that all the investments in public transport - rail, road, all the resources we have to dispose of - after using them will improve the safety of road traffic, because investment in rail It's like uncorking road users' problems. And, as is clearly highlighted in the information we are talking about today, we should draw attention to the fact that unfortunately there are many accidents, road accidents, more than ever, involving truck drivers. This is also some information for all of us about the fact that this road transport, which is very well functioning in Poland - we are in a sense the leader in this area in Europe - also requires some solutions, i.e., in short, the transfer of freight transport to rails. We have to deal with this, because we'll never get to it otherwise, we'll build more roads, expand more roads, and destroy these roads at the same time. [[♪ The bell ♪]] High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I request that information be accepted, very reliable, very insightful, very informative, with good conclusions which I hope will be implemented as a parliament, as a Polish government for the benefit of road users. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u299	Mr Stanisław Żmijan will present his position on behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u300	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Minister! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, I present my position on the document of the President of the Council of Ministers, the Road Safety State and the activities carried out in this regard in 2017. High Seym! The document from Seym Printing No. 2595 is a report on the state of safety in road traffic in Poland in 2017. Unfortunately, indicators reflecting the state of safety on Polish roads differ far from the assumptions of the National Road Safety Programme 2013-2020, which assumed a halve of the number of fatalities and 40% of the number of seriously injured by 2020, which means no more than 2 000. fatalities and no more than 6900 seriously injured in 2020 following road accidents. The deviation of indicators in this respect for 2017 is 16% respectively and as much as 38% to the detriment. The data available today for 2018 are also worrying. According to the national road safety programme, no more than 2286 people should be killed in 2018. Meanwhile, it is already known that 2838 people were killed, seven more than in 2017. However, the Marshal of the Sejm unfortunately did not find a place in the agenda of the Sejm's meetings to hold a debate on this issue, a very important issue, throughout 2018. Effectively implemented the road safety improvement programme in 2008-2015 by the infrastructure department in the Civic Platform and PSL government was encouraging. During this time, the number of road accidents decreased by half. In a similar way, there has been a decrease in the number of deaths and serious injuries. It is enough to say that 5437 people were killed in 2008 and 2953 were killed in 2015. It's still too much, but it's half as low. In 2016, the optimistic trend collapsed. Unfortunately, the report does not answer the question: why. Nor does it provide convincing recommendations and actions in this regard. Admittedly, the report which is the subject of today's debate by the Secretariat of the National Road Safety Council contains detailed analysis of road accidents in terms of territorial location, characteristics of these events, perpetrators and victims of accidents. This approach has made major road safety problems visible, which should facilitate the development of a strategy for improvement. But is that really the case? No. It seems that there is a tendency to decrease the number of accidents - despite the increasing traffic, because over 1 million trucks arrived between 2006 and 2015 - that this trend put the infrastructure resort down, and the facts show that such a trend did not have to be and is not permanent. It is necessary to be full mobilising all of us as road users, as road users every day, but also as those who take decisions in this area, including here in this House, in particular as regards finance for this purpose. So, Minister, I agree with you that we have no reason to be satisfied, and indeed, I am showing such dissatisfaction on behalf of the club. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[We didn't have a year...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u301	Thank you very much, sir. And Mr Paweł Szramka will present the position of the Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u302	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Thank you for presenting this report. In this discussion, first of all speaking about all these statistics, analyses, we should remember that each of these posts concerns life and human health. And the very fact that these posts appear should be a reason for us to take the subject more seriously, and I believe that this is, of course, serious thinking about it. On the other hand, we may still struggle with not thinking that would give us tangible results. And here during the discussion I thought about a few things that make it dangerous every day. And from the looks of it, the fact that we have highways, of course we have better roads, should help to make the ride work, which should be safer. But what happens when we get off this highway? We have gates that block us, we have gates that slow our ride, and the time we made up on the highway, we often lose in queues at the gate. This makes the drivers nervous, emotional, and even further away, off the highway they drive faster, they drive irregularly and can cause accidents. Then what President Rzońc was talking about here is a multitude of markings. We often have so much of this, especially in cities, that the driver is not really able to focus on the driving, because he has to have eyes around his head to just pick up these signs. In addition, I think it is also worth thinking about changing the driver training system, because someone who had no contact with the vehicle after 30 hours of driving is not a person who is prepared to join the city traffic, to the car traffic, and we cannot be sure that such a person is not a danger. Furthermore, we should think first of all about practice, not only driving in traffic, but also about critical situations such as skids, sudden braking. Unfortunately, there is not much of this during driving lessons. And here it is worth thinking first of all about education at this lowest level, at school level, already young children and maybe it is worth changing the training system a little bit, but not so as to tell the kids that this is not right, so you can't go, now you can't go, because you can't get to the children what you're saying to them. It should be according to the rules: tell me, and I'll forget, show me, and I'll remember, let me do it, and I'll understand. And that, I think, is the direction we should practice with the kids. They should even participate in this urban movement, we should show them that it is tangible so that they know how it all happens. There was also talk of pedestrians. Very often it is alleged that pedestrians pass through the red light. I even submitted an interview to the Minister of Infrastructure on this issue to consider whether it is worth introducing in Poland a system such as the one that operates. in England, where there is the possibility of crossing the lanes despite the red light, when a man makes sure he doesn't cause any danger. I think it would be worth checking the statistics here, how many Poles in Poland, passing the red light, cause such collisions, cause dangerous events, and how many Poles who went to England have been injured in such events. I think paradoxically for those who think... Changing the rules to the fact that we could go through the red light after making sure it's safe would be surprising, because there are virtually no such events in England. This is because the drivers and pedestrians think when they're at the pedestrian crossing. At present it is often the case that pedestrians, without looking at anything, because they have green, pass, and in any situation the driver can stare and even at this red light through the lanes. I also draw attention to the issue that we have in several European countries, namely the flashing green light before switching to orange... yellow, sorry. We know that this yellow light shines very briefly, and if braking a passenger vehicle does not cause any difficulty here, it is quite difficult already for the truck and if this light flashed several times before yellow inflammation, I think the truck driver could slow down at the right time. Plus, a case that hasn't been raised is a case of drunk drivers. I think that in this case too we should approach the issue a little differently, because most often we catch a drunk driver when he causes a tragedy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We're playing catch-up on drunk drivers when we get to work in the morning when we catch, say, a few thousand people, out of which we're gonna catch two people who had 0.21, and we're doing statistics on getting drunk drivers. They're not drunk drivers, they're people who just haven't gotten sober, and they probably don't pose any big threat, and unfortunately we don't do catching actually drunk drivers who, for example. They leave the discos, they leave the liquor stores or the bars on double gas. That is why I think that we should approach this issue in a completely different way as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u303	Thank you. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski presented his speech on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - the European Union of Democrats in writing. I would ask Mr Mirosław Suchon to speak on behalf of the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u304	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the report on the state of road safety and the activities carried out in this area in 2017. High Izbo! From the moment the committee examined this report, it'll be a year in a few months. I have to say, on the one hand, of course, it is in some way of wondering why there is such a gap between the examination of this report at the committee meeting and the consideration at the plenary meeting. Perhaps this should be done efficiently to make these proposals useful in some way. On the other hand, it has this undoubted advantage that almost a year after the discussion we can answer the question whether this report has somehow shaken the ministry. As a result of the adoption, formulation, presentation of this report, the Ministry took some action that made this road safety improved. I must say that there are quite a number of aspects that help us assess whether these measures have been taken. This discussion that we had at the committee meeting was very substantive, and I would say that it affected the essence of many issues, many factors that affect the level of road safety. In view of the very limited time, I will focus solely on the few that are actually important to me in some way. Firstly, during the committee meeting we discussed the technical condition of vehicles, especially those imported from abroad. We agreed on the opinion - I went back to the transcript of the meeting - and all of us, like one husband at the meeting, said that the technical condition of many vehicles endangers road safety and that something has to be done about it. I must say that during this almost one year the government has not come up with any initiative that would cause the wrecks that flow to Poland every day, which cause air pollution, but also because of the bad technical condition, to cause a risk in road safety, to stop sailing through our western border. I must say, Minister, that the only action in this area was to try to finance Transport Technical Supervision with PLN 0.5 billion under the pretext of improving the quality of technical research. Of course it was. only in the interest of the TDT, this could not in any way affect the improvement of the safety level, the improvement of the technical condition of vehicles. In this respect, however, you have not taken any action, but this is no action. I'm sorry to say this, because it really is such a very simple impulse that would make the level of security grow. The second thing is related to who causes accidents or accident victims. Well, I said then that there is a noticeable trend that a lot of young people are victims of accidents, then somewhere after the age of 24, this share falls and again grows rapidly at the very end, in the fall of life, among seniors. That, of course, has several reasons. The first thing that could be done is to teach children the principles of road safety, as well as to change the training programme of candidates for drivers or to reform training at all. I'm not talking about testing because it's a completely different factor. Everyone is focused on testing, but we are not talking about training at all, about the fact that children should be taught from an early age, about what the shell will soak up in their old age. I must say again that this is an area that, unfortunately, Minister, has not been developed in any way. I'm really sorry to say this, because any such initiative we'd be rooting for without blinking an eye. I hope that, as part of the initiative that I have announced or put forward, a special committee meeting [[♪ The bell ♪]] on the date of May, on which the committee was about to address the subject of the training of candidates for drivers, this subject will be addressed. I appeal to the chairman of the committee to announce this to the social side, because I know that there is a very strong need to talk about how to shape these conditions. And one last thing, if your marshal will permit, literally half a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u305	Well, that's too long, sir. Please be brief.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u306	15 seconds.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u307	Oh, and it's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u308	15 seconds, the last three words: road construction. I was talking about the Beskydy Integration Road, which seems to have no sidewalks at all. She's out there somewhere on the investment list, but once again there are investments from a lower level, from further places on the list in terms of order, while the Beskidzska Integration Road is not being implemented, which would greatly improve security. And here, unfortunately, I must make such a sad complaint to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u309	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u310	Thank you very much. I hope that we can work on all these aspects at committee meetings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u311	We're going to ask questions. Would any of your fellow Members like to join the list? You're welcome. If not, I'm closing the list. We begin with the question of Mr Michael Szczerby, the Civic Platform - the Civic Coalition. I don't see your MP. In that case, Mr Marek Rząsa, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, will ask a question at this point. You're welcome. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u312	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! In the document presented, I did not find information on accidents involving wild animals. Meanwhile, the police chief's records show that the number of such accidents is increasing. The number of people killed and badly injured as a result of such accidents is also increasing. Unfortunately, the existing legislation relating to this type of accident completely confuses liability, starting with the so-called. responsibilities of the State Treasury, through local governments, through road managers, ending up on hunting wheels. Attention, wild animals stand practically everywhere on Polish roads, even on expressways and motorways. Why? The explanation is simple: a road event involving a wild animal behind such a mark practically prevents any compensation for the damage caused by the accident or requires a very long and expensive judicial route, but the perpetrators, or wild animals, do not see signs and often flee the scene of the accident. Every driver who has experienced such an event knows that even at a speed of 5 km/h, he is unable to react. I have a question. On Polish roads there are several hundred devices, the so-called. Wolf eyes. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's a device that scares the animals away and prevents them from getting on the road. I would like to ask the Minister: Are you considering introducing similar solutions with more roads in Poland and in the future on all road posts? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u313	Thank you. Mr Marek Wójcik, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u314	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u315	Mr President, you did not have one minute, but much more, and therefore you had time to fully express your position in the question. I'm talking to Mr Rozza.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u316	Yes, sir. Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! When it comes to vehicles with slightly smaller dimensions than those we usually talk about in this Chamber, I would like to ask the Minister about a market that is developing very dynamically in Poland and everywhere in the world. It is about electric scooters and other electric vehicles, which people are more and more eager to move around the streets of Polish cities and more. Such vehicles often reach a speed of 25 and 30 km/h, while today in Poland there are no regulations that would apply to such vehicles. People who move, for example. on an electric scooter, they are treated as pedestrians, so that when they get on the road or on the bike, they can simply get a ticket. And the question is, are you considering any regulation in the Ministry regarding the rules of movement of such vehicles? This is so important that today it is not just a question of individual purchases and individual movement. Cities are also increasingly considering investments in car rentals, and such regulations should certainly be created. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u317	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Jarosław Goncier, the Law and Justice to ask another question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u318	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Thank you very much for your thorough, detailed report. There's only one thing I'm missing, unless I'm missing something. This is a summary of the age, possibly course, of the technical condition of vehicles that participated in collisions, accidents. Until recently, many cars, often in questionable technical condition, were imported to Poland from the West. However, due to the improvement of the situation of Poles, now compatriots buy more and more new cars, their sales increase record. I think this is a report for 2017, and I am sure that such data will be important in the reports of the following years. I would very much ask you to take this into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u319	Thank you. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. Here's another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u320	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! You said you'd do anything to make the roads safer, so I'm hoping you'll listen to me very carefully right now. Everyone knows that accidents in the fog are among the most serious and sometimes dozens of vehicles are involved. I wanted to ask you a question, and I asked it two years ago, maybe three years ago. I was talking about this, about the horizontal warning sign against the mist of painting the semicircles, the white semicircles by the sideline. Visibility of one means the need to reduce speed to 40 km, two - 60, three - 80. This is a very popular solution in countries south of us, starting with Hungary. Why don't we have a solution like this? I have not seen anything like this anywhere in the country, and the solutions that have been applied on the A4 motorway, where there are very many such accidents, unfortunately do not solve the problem, do not even bring us closer to solving the problem. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You yourself stressed, Minister, that you are concerned about the state of security on expressways and motorways. So you're welcome to lean on this solution.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u321	Thank you, sir. I invite Mrs Elżbieta Stępień, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, to ask the next question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u322	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm directing my inquiry to you. Well, I've tried to listen to your report before, and I haven't heard for a moment about drunk drivers. And I think all the people in this room are gonna agree that every drunk driver is a potential killer. So why don't you step up the law, even at the level of the prosecutor's office? Why do prosecutors often stop dealing with a drunk driver? This is a serious problem, and I think we should lean harder and deeper on this problem. First of all, because if a drunk driver kills a host father or a mother, but also a child, whether this child is on the side of the road, on the lanes or in the car, the reason is simply a drunk driver. I think drunk drivers should [[♪ The bell ♪]] Punish harshly, stigmatize. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u323	Thank you. And I invite Mr Raimund Miller to ask you another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u324	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I would like to raise the issue of the safety of cyclists and pedestrians in pedestrian crossings. I know that everywhere in the European Union, on a passage marked also as a road for cyclists, the biker has the absolute priority, but I do not think that this solution is good. On regular pedestrian lanes, the rider must carry a bike, while cyclists drive at such speeds that many of us and many drivers report the situation in which the biker, driving 20, 30 km/h, has priority... It's just trespassing. A cyclist dies or is injured, while the driver is really unable to react to the entry of the cyclist. Perhaps we would be the first country to introduce an obligation to stop a pedestrian before crossing the lanes on which a cyclists can pass. And the other thing. Referring to what you have said, I think it might be necessary to stigmatise those who drink because for some who drink caught [[♪ The bell ♪]] on alcohol-driving, a fine or other penalty is not as important as e.g. Force them to do community service in specially marked vests. Many people who do this, maybe taking part in this work with the vest, I drank in the city where you are known, in the place where you live, doing public work, ten times would have thought about it before the next time you drank before you got in the car. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u325	Thank you. And Mr Stanisław Żmijan, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u326	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! When in 2017 we discussed the report on the state of safety on Polish roads for 2016, when this favourable trend in the number of accidents and casualties was broken, we were looking for additional tools in this respect. Among other things, we talked about considering the possibility of having the National Road Safety Council budgeted. It is known that today and then, and in the future without money, it is difficult to achieve anything, especially in such an important extent as road safety. The question, Minister: Is there a chance that the National Road Safety Council will also be able to support financial issues? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u327	Thank you. Mr Stanisław Lamczyk, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, please ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u328	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We still can't handle the walkway. We have data for 2018, i.e. Every year for 3 years we have an increase in accidents, and this is fatal, on the lanes, on the crossings. Other countries have dealt with it. And I would like to remind you that the Venice Convention is in force, which clearly sets out how to behave. And coming into the passageway will be on the zebras right now. Minister, I would also like you to look at the World Bank report in these analyses, which talks about the blurring, let us assume here, the possibilities, the responsibility of all the various ministries. This is also very important. I have another question: What goals have just been... This year, the European Commission joined the so-called "European Commission." a trilogue, i.e. regulations governing the safety of vehicles, [[♪ The bell ♪]] You go into the autonomy of cars. And I just have a question: What are the goals we set out there? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u329	Thank you very much. And I invite Mr Rafał Weber, the Law and Justice, to ask you another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u330	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! If we are talking about road safety, we need to realise that there are areas that the Minister of Infrastructure has no direct influence on. Because does the Minister of Infrastructure have an impact on the weather, which is causing the accident to increase? Does the Minister of Infrastructure influence decisions made by drivers? Does the Minister of Infrastructure influence decisions made by pedestrians who take them on the right or wrong side of the road? No, it's not. This is life, this is the decision of each of the millions of road users and these decisions later have an impact on whether accidents in Poland are bigger or smaller. On the other hand, I would like to appreciate the Ministry of Infrastructure's efforts in this area which it has an impact on. Minister, thank you very much for the smooth implementation of the construction of sidewalks on national roads, but thank you very much for the regulation, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which you released in 2017, which allows you to install time displays at traffic intersections. On the example of Stalowa Wola: at one crossroads there were several accidents each year, and after installation of such displays there are no such accidents. During 250 days of 2018, there was not a single accident at such an intersection. And that's because of the decisions that are made at the Ministry of Infrastructure. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u331	Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz.15, will ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u332	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You were talking about county roads, among others. that they will be co-financed, and of course it is right, because it will improve security, but however much money we would have had They've put it in, there's always not enough infrastructure to be as well as we'd like. And maybe it's worth thinking about where that money's coming from. And if we're talking about county roads, there's institutions like county labour offices in the county. I think that they are not needed for anything now, and they cost very much, many millions of us all, all Poles. I think if we took out these institutions, I'm sure there'd be more money for the roads. And I am convinced that no one will convince me that these institutions at the moment, when we have the Internet, we have a completely different approach to hiring people than a few years ago, are needed. So, of course, the Minister is not responsible for these issues, but I urge that such a voice from the Ministry of Infrastructure be received by the responsible authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u333	Thank you. And the last question in this point will be asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u334	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have two more questions, including those relating to the discussion that took place at the committee meeting. There are two problems that I think are important. Well, in general, in Poland a lot is done, local governments and foundations are doing, for marking pedestrians. So they give out all kinds of reflections, etc. However, during the committee meeting there was such information that, after examining all these reflections, it turned out that the majority did not meet any standards and in principle were not useful in road traffic, so the question was whether the ministry had taken any action. And then there's the question about the zipper ride. Is there something going on about this? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u335	Thank you very much. The Minister of Infrastructure Mr Andrzej Adamczyk will answer this question and the previous questions will be answered by Mr Andrzej Adamczyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u336	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for this substantive discussion. Thank you very much for the questions, but also for the proposals that have been made here and for the reflections. This is what I imagined and this is how I imagined the most important debate, the debate about the life and safety of Poles, and this is what we are doing today. And I'm glad she's free of political tours. Allow me to comment on the criticisms of the report. Mr Stanisław Żmijan spoke about a trend that had been set and collapsed in 2016. Mr President, the charts don't lie. In 2011, it was adopted too, it turned out to be an ambitious and unlivable plan for the coming years. That's the line. This bold line, on the other hand, is life, that's what brought the years to come. Already in 2013, life shifted this curve very strongly from its assumptions. So not in 2016, but it happened almost immediately next year. And that's why when you look at 2016, it's actually a curve from this plan... The number of these accidents should have fallen and it was far from reality but deviated in 2015, 2013 and the year before. I do not identify in the areas of power, so that the matter is clear, because I have just expressed my satisfaction that we are not discoloured by this current or historical policy. The report doesn't say anything about animal issues, about the technical state of the vehicles. Well, police statistics, which are also available, are full of these data. There you should look for them and we use these data generally available on the Internet. Mr Stanisław Żmijan spoke about trucks that put the resort to sleep. [[...not cars, no.]] In 2016, the total number of accidents involving heavy goods vehicles, i.e. a thought shortcut, put the resort to sleep. [[Yes, sir.]] I assure you, Mr President, this is a misdiagnosis, because the share of heavy goods vehicles in all cases involving cars in 2016 was 10%. all those events. The figures are: 21 733 road accidents involving passenger cars and 962 accidents involving heavy goods vehicles. A year earlier, 50 trucks were involved in accidents less. So it's not a huge, even immeasurable size, it's an increase, but it's not an increase that tells us to alarm everyone. Of course, we should weigh and see what's causing this... [[Oh, that's right.]] ...but you know perfectly well, because you just said that a million more cars appeared on Polish roads. If you take the statistics into account, this is the natural result of the increase in the number of vehicles. Mr President, I have mentioned you by name, and you are an experienced parliamentarians, and you will benefit from this, you will come to the Parliamentary Speaker, and you will probably ask the marshal to correct it. [[Yes.]] Before you do, I would like to repeat very clearly that I did not say that we were dissatisfied. I said that we are not satisfied because no one should be satisfied with what happened in 2016, 2017, 2018, 2010 or 2008. There's a difference in these terms, and we really don't feel satisfied. I hope that no one has satisfaction, because full satisfaction - I will repeat again - we will have when the accounts, i.e. the account of road accidents, the account of fatal accidents, the account of the injured will be equal to zero. Then we'll have satisfaction. As regards the proposals - another speaker said so - the conclusions of this report appear in the evaluation of the programme referred to in this report. You said here that it was a very bad year, that it was worse by comparing year to year. The year 2017 was the safest year for 28 years. Of course, we remember the death tolls, the wounded, the events, the collisions, the human misery, but if we compare and compare only numbers, it was the safest. As far as the indicators are concerned, I have already referred to this allegation. The Ministry did not take action in relation to cars whose technical condition was not used here, but this is how it sounded - it calls for revenge to heaven. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to quote - and I have in mind - the debate that took place at the Sejm's meeting when we examined the regulations on technical testing of vehicles. In such a situation, each speaker should remember what he said at the Seym Hall. In any situation. I remember, I remember perfectly, and please, gentlemen and Members... [[The Minister who spoke of it is gone.]] Mr Chodkiewicz, I would like to ask you to respectfully speak of Minister Mark Chodkiewicz, because only the state of health did not allow him to continue to work - I have already talked about this many times and I am talking about it from the Parliamentary Speaker - not other reasons. I hope that Minister Marek Chodkiewicz will continue to support us, we hope, in the area of road safety too. It is important to remember that the so-called. Retreating counters in cars, which makes their good technical condition in the eyes of the buyer, in the eyes of the customer, becomes a crime, and it is thanks to the initiative of the Law and Justice Government, I will remind you and I will draw attention to that. Anyway, whatever happens, the second life of the VIN, Mr. President, will be history, we will. VIN's second life will be history. We'll do it. [[Applause]] [[Interesting.]] With regard to education, education, I would like to point out that the report contains provisions on the basis of the programmes that have been introduced that have been modified, which take into account education or training in road safety, road safety education. And here the achievements of Minister Zalewska - thank you very much from this point of view for the opportunity to cooperate in this area - are truly immeasurable in relation to what has not happened in previous years. Accidents involving wild animals are a problem that needs to be addressed in one way or another. I think that what Mr Wolf's eyes were talking about, which is something that is installed on the posts, is another proposal that can help reduce the number of accidents. This project is worth supporting. [[It's a matter of responsibility.]] If we are talking about the UTO, when we are asking about these modern devices and technologies, about scooters, then, ladies and gentlemen, let us not commit ourselves to self-pity again, let us not push ourselves into the periphery of Europe and the European Union. Only two countries, Denmark and the Netherlands have introduced regulations in this regard. In all other countries of the European Union, studies are being carried out on how to deal with the legal environment, the problem of these urban vehicles, vehicles used in urban traffic, such as electric scooters. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Yes. That is why we are conducting, the National Road Safety Council - and we are here with the Secretary of the National Council - is conducting analyses and studies. We will be at the forefront of Europe, and we will soon have lessons from these studies, from these analyses. We've declared, we've channeled funds to these researches. Drunk drivers. Let me remind you: tightening the law, implementing the assumptions that the Ministry of Justice has notified to the National Road Safety Council programme. The Ministry of Justice is carrying out the tasks that it has set before it. We're talking about tightening the penalties for driving under the influence of alcohol, especially for causing an accident under the influence of alcohol. National Road Safety Council budget. Mr. President, we're using the resources of the ICU. It is tens of millions of zlotys dedicated to all kinds of promotional and educational activities. You remember, you have in your memory television spots that we broadcast, especially during the time of traffic accidents. We are currently preparing guidelines on road traffic, which will include cyclists, because we want to unify, just as the rules on pedestrian crossings have been unified, revise and analyse the rules on cyclists, on pedestrian lanes, etc. We will have comprehensive rules that, I think, will regulate this problem. As for reflections, it is true that there are many elements that do not meet all expectations. The question is, can we prohibit such production, or can we prohibit distribution, or can we stop it somehow? If you look in the context of a debate that passed through the High House a few years ago, I remember when legislation was introduced requiring the use of retro-reflective elements of pedestrians moving on public roads outside built-up areas, then you can see that there was no obligation, there was no, sorry, fashion for reflections. Today she is. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let us hope that production levels and technologies will allow all pedestrians to be supplied with highly effective reflections. Thank you all very much for the debate, for the discussion, for taking part in this part of the session of the Sejm. I request once again that the 2017 National Road Safety Council report be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Your Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u337	On the corrigendum by Mr Stanisław Żmijan, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. One minute. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u338	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! Well, it's probably emotional, we don't understand each other. I've expressed what you probably share. Well, I said that together we have overthrown the myth that the number of accidents is associated with increasing traffic. I said she's falling in spite of the increasing movement. The fact that there's more or less... This huge number of trucks makes it really dangerous on the roads, and you know it. We didn't understand each other. It started out very nicely, but then the Minister tried to thank us for this debate. Well, Minister, if I wanted to politicize this debate... I didn't say anything wrong about the report. The report is good, the report is very broad. That's what I'm talking about. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, if I wanted to be mean about that part of the report where you put it, you confirmed it, spending for the media, now I'll tell you this: party media. That's what's wrong, because a lot of Poles don't watch PiS TV. It's too much money. [[There's no PiS TV.]] It is what you want, and I will say more: the regime, the television. [[Applause]] Marshal, thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Obsessions are healing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u339	Thank you. The discussion is closed...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u340	Minister! One question... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u341	No. Thank you very much, sir. Time's up. You've made a corrigendum, and that's enough.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u342	There was a correction.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u343	The discussion is closed...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u344	Minister! You also declared yourself on the hallway of life. Why don't you say something about it?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u345	Mr... [[I ask you to be able to comment on one sentence.]] No. I no longer give the floor to the Minister. [[In one sentence.]] Please, one sentence, Minister. Otherwise, I'll turn your mike off. [[The hallway of life, Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u346	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It is very bad that such an important debate, such an important discussion concerning the safety of Poles on the roads, is nevertheless filled with political threads, statements which are nothing to do with reality. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u347	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u348	Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the European Union of Democrats, I will present my position on the document: the state of road safety and the activities carried out in this area in 2017. According to the document, 2017 was the year in which a significant improvement in safety was recorded on Polish roads compared to 2016. The country-wide figures indicate a decrease in the number of accidents and fatalities and injuries. At the same time, the number of collisions on the roads has again increased, which suggests that the quality of cars and their safety have improved, but not the measurable actions taken by the Ministry. Accidents are far too much, which results from the mistakes of people travelling on the roads, but also from bad markings in certain places or incomprehensible road restrictions. It should be indicated that there is a separate category of pedestrian accidents, in particular those involving hiking. The threat of this group of vulnerable road users has been one of the biggest problems of road safety in Poland for many years. It is good that 2017 brought a 4.2% reduction in the number of accidents of this kind. Similarly, bikers are an important category, but also an increasingly common group of people moving on electronic scooters. The problem is particularly big cities. This group has not yet been sanctioned in any way. It is not known whether to treat such a person as a pedestrian or as a cyclist. This problem needs to be resolved quickly. The document presented by the Minister contains many charts, many sets of levels of dangerous events, which is understandable. The most important thing in my opinion is to identify solutions for the future, to identify actions that will improve safety. Unfortunately, there aren't enough of these. The level of road safety needs to be improved. This applies especially to local, municipal and district roads. There are a large number of pedestrian accidents on these roads. There are several reasons. The main and unchangeable over the years is bad visibility. Often people walking by the side of the road are invisible to approaching cars. Intensive information activities should be carried out, the basic principles of road traffic should be promoted in the information programmes. That's still not enough. I would add, by the way, that I consider the photographs of the Minister in the official document of the Council of Ministers to be a grave exaggeration.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u349	Member, please... The Committee on Infrastructure requests the adoption of print document No 2595. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the Government's draft law on one-off provision of money to pensioners in 2019 (Prints No. 3311 and 3342). Mrs Bożena Boris-Szopa will present a report to the committee. You're welcome. [[Stay with us, Marshal. That's the point.]] Thank you very much, but unfortunately, my driving time is over. [[That's too bad.]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u350	Dear Marshals! High Seym! Minister! On behalf of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, I present to the High House a report on the Government's draft law on one-off provision of money to pensioners in 2019; print 3311. This project provides for the provision of services, so-called. The 13th pension, which will be granted to all persons who collect pensions from both KRUS, ZUS, and uniform pensions, pensions, benefits and pre-retirement benefits and teacher compensation benefits. With these benefits, the government wants to give pensioners a sense of security, appreciate the work they have done throughout their professional lives, as well as their life experience and a huge contribution to every family's life. The bill entered the Sejm on 26 March this year. Sejm at its 79th meeting, 3 April, in accordance with Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred him to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for consideration. On 3 April, the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, following a very substantive and calm discussion, for which I thank all the members of the committee very warmly, with 2 abstentions and all the other votes in favour, adopted the draft law, rejecting the amendments previously tabled during the examination of the draft. According to Art. Article 43 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I present two minority proposals to delete Article. 14 and Article 14 15, tabled on behalf of the PO-KO club by Mrs Magdalena Kochan. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy requests the High House to adopt a draft law in accordance with the Government's submission, print No 3311, and the report, print No 3342. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u351	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Urszula Rusecka, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u352	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the Government's draft one-off money provision law for pensioners in 2019 and print no. 3311. The contested bill met with the huge support of our society, because as much as 84% the persons asked expressed their acceptance of the payment of the 13th pension. It is worth noting that this is a universal benefit and its payment will cover almost 10 million Poles. Let the opposition, especially the total one, who had the chance to prove herself in power, not the spell of reality. You're the ones who wanted the seniors to work till the day they died. You lied during the election campaign that you wouldn't raise your retirement age. And what did you do? You've raised your retirement age. You took over 150 billion PLN from OFE. You moved funds from the Demographic Reserve Fund, and the benefit of pensions and pensions during the PO-PSL regime was embarrassingly low. It is the Government of Law and Justice that wants to give pensioners a sense of security in all dimensions. It carries out many programs aimed at people in the third century. As a result of the actions undertaken in 2017 to around 1 million of the poorest recipients meeting the conditions of internship, the pension for total incapacity for work and the survivor's pension increased by 13.3% and the pension for partial incapacity for work increased by 10.8%. In the same year, pension benefits were increased to a greater extent in the context of the valorisation of pension benefits than if a valorisation had been carried out under the existing rules. In 2018, the valorisation rate was 102.98%. which meant the highest increase in benefits over the last 5 years. Since 1 June 2018, the amount of the social pension has also increased. It has increased to 100% the amount of the lowest pension for total incapacity for work. Since 1 March 2019 pension benefits have increased by a statutory valorisation rate of 102,86% but not less than 70 PLN. The principle of percentage-quota valorisation has been applied. The lowest pensions since 2016 have increased by around 25%. The project under investigation is real and concrete support for equality and fairness for pensioners. Therefore, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u353	Thank you. Magdalena Kochan, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u354	High Izbo! During the first reading, the Prime Minister was kind to insult the opposition, to miss the truth a little bit, saying, among other things. That the only raise he's ever paid to the seniors was tax increases. Let me remind the Prime Minister that the only increase in tax was a 1% increase in VAT for 3 years and then again for 3 years. As far as I can remember, you haven't changed the amount of that tax. What's more, when it comes to fees and taxes, you've raised them 32 times. It's so precisely that the Prime Minister will remember what the reality is. Minister Rafalska, in turn, was kind to miss the truth, saying that it was only the PiS government that noticed the problems of seniors, because among others. This is a one-off benefit. I will remind Minister Rafalski of the first law, which was called the Older Persons Act, to remind him of the senior council, the national geriatric institute, the Civic Senior Parliament, which was sitting in this House and only the Government of Law and Justice threw him out of this House permanently, because so far seniors from this parliament cannot ask for the opportunity to hold a meeting here, in this plenary room, the Senior - WIGOR, a program that you have switched to I must also say that a real programme of equal opportunities and disparities between the income of individual seniors is not about giving everything equally. The aim is to reduce these disparities, to reduce disparities between the highest and the lowest benefits. If you give them to everyone equally, it means that these divisions and these inequalities are fixed. The programme to reduce this was the bill submitted by the government in autumn 2015 by Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz, where the highest pension was the smallest and the lowest. With a similar program, with a similar bill, PiS presented it in the marshal's staff. In June 2017, we discussed this issue and heard from the representative of the Polish People's Party: Of course, for political reasons, as the Polish People's Party does, various projects may be submitted to the High House, which are not provided with funding from the state budget. I would like to stress that this is pure populism. Of course, the PiS did not support this solution. Moreover, the same representative of the PiS also said: the Constitutional Tribunal has formulated specific principles of law-making, which he included among others. an order to maintain an appropriate adjustment period for the introduction of new legal standards, i.e. vacathio legis. When does this bill we're talking about enter into force right now? From the day following the day of the announcement. You are in such a hurry to make this bill before the elections to the European Parliament that you exclude it from the rules of the Public Finance Act. It cannot be that nearly PLN 11 billion is not reflected in Parliament's control. Parliament, Members and the public informed by them must know how we will finance this expenditure from the state budget. We have therefore tabled an amendment so that the Public Finance Act is respected during the adoption of this law. We don't think it's right that the speed associated with the election deadline is the reason for the deviation from the norm. I would like to stress with all my power, and we have made this clear during the committee's deliberations, that we support this witness. Our seniors are simply entitled to this money, as are all the previous laws. It's not true that we want to take anything. We support this bill, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But we believe that public finances must be under proper control. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u355	Thank you, Member. I invite Mrs Agnieszka Chasing, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u356	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz club again today15 in relation to the one-off cash provision law for pensioners in 2019. Once again, money that goes to the poorest social group, which is undoubtedly pensioners and pensioners, is simply what they need. I agree with the fact that what they have worked for 30 and 40 years, and at the moment they are getting under the system, is mostly just humiliating, inadequate for basic life needs and should be taken care of. The accusations here against the opposition, the total opposition, that there was nothing left. done, you can not go to the Kukiz club15, which systematically for 3 years has nothing against transfers of money to people, on the contrary, came here to make this money in the pockets of Poles more. But, on the other hand, it shows and points out that after 30 years of transformation many areas, many institutions need to be reformed, reformed so as not to indebt states in order to reduce administrative and bureaucracy in order to allow for better and independent management of Poles' financial resources. And that is why we offer good solutions every time, we point out the substantive solutions, we show the way, how it can be done, without dividing Poles, without dividing pensioners, without dividing the recipients. Today I mentioned three: either raising the tax-free amount or reducing PIT to 10% - there will be a similar effect, and this can be done gradually - at the same time showing where money can be found - by reforming the system of disability ruling, reforming inefficient labour offices, showing how much we are running away by institutions that we are multiplying, while not eliminating those that are old and inefficient. Therefore, we will not give up on this and we will gradually say that the social security system in Poland should also be reformed, it is necessary to reduce the costs of the operation of the Social Security Office, which is really inefficient. And let me just remind you that 400 million were spent on computerization itself. It's really money that you can count, see if they're being thrown into the mud. These are all confirmed items by the NIK control. That is why we point to the same effect, only by reducing the cost of the State, while not burdening other taxpayers with these transfers. Of course, we tabled two amendments to this bill at the committee meeting, because it is humiliating for us, too, that pensioners will have to look forward to this money every year and wonder, without knowing what the effects of democratic elections will be, whether this or the next government or another government will simply not give it to them. It's actually humiliating. Therefore, we ask the government to accept this as a permanent act - this is how it has been done - for this benefit to be paid each year. If we give them once, let them get it every year. I have tabled a number of amendments, the Kukiz15 has tabled a number of amendments, which aim to make the provision that this is only a one-off benefit paid in 2019 disappear under this law, but it has emerged that this is a law that will apply every year. And then, ladies and gentlemen, the charge that you want this bill to be introduced is gone because you want to win the election, because somehow you're trying to manipulate politically democratic elections. It's just gonna go away. It's gonna be a bill that permanently gives you a sense of security. That's what we're talking about. I am glad that you spoke of this. A sense of security for pensioners is important. Continuity of witnessing is a sense of security, therefore I ask you to accept these amendments. The second amendment is also important. I think it's an oversight. We are once again asking for a group of guardians of adults with disabilities who are waiting for the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal to be enforced. It has a benefit of PLN 520 per hand. This group was not included in the record of this witnessing, so it may be worth considering whether this group, which is not so big, should not also be included in the record of this witnessing, all the more so because we ban these people from working opportunities and very often it is their only income, so they also expect this money. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u357	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u358	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The committee's work has practically changed nothing about our approach. We continue to believe that this is simply a bill to encourage pensioners to vote for Law and Justice. You don't care about seniors, you don't care about any system solutions, because this law doesn't introduce any system solutions. We will continue to have unresolved problems with starving pensions, which become a serious issue in Poland. Like I said this morning, it's already 300,000. The pensioner lives on the border of existence, and the minimum pension in Poland is 200 PLN lower than the minimum social pension for a single pensioner in Poland. And that bill won't change that. We will still have long queues to doctors, pensioners will die waiting for surgery, because 888 zlotys intended for the pensioner will not save the health system, will not make us have more doctors, shorter deadlines, faster treatments. 888 PLN is two, three private visits, and after the money. It's a one-off bill. The committee's work has only shown that you do not want to implement any system solutions. But what worries me most is that we have been talking since this morning about the fact that we want to spend PLN 11 billion more from the budget, and the Minister of Finance doesn't have it. And this shows best how problematic Kaczyński's five is. The Minister does not exist, and further reports say that he intends to leave the Ministry because he does not accept this financial policy of the PiS, as it has been put against the wall, because you are making significant changes to the expenditure of public finances over the course of the year, without indicating an additional source of funding. And really the biggest... [[Voice from the room: "Do not give"?]] No. Show off the savings, sir, instead of giving 1.5 billion to public television, give to pensioners. Permanently, every year public television e.g. He gets $1.5 billion every year... [[Voice from the hall: Then vote against it.]] I wasn't interrupting. Personal culture...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u359	And I don't know if I'm in the market or if I'm in the Seym, so I'd like to have a quiet discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u360	And did you speak to me or to the Members who are screaming?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u361	And you, too, because you answer. Proceed calmly.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u362	But I present my position, and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u363	Please take it easy...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u364	...mrs. and mrs. and mrs. are bothering you. [[Something unbelievable.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u365	Continue calmly, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u366	The most worried is one fact. I don't believe in the randomness of events that PiS suddenly returns to the idea of a second cut of OFE. Prime Minister Morawiecki just all the time He's looking for money for five Kaczyńskis, so he suddenly remembered that there are still 160 billion in OFE, 40 of which can just be stolen. The promises made will be a huge burden next year, which is why you introduce this law once, which is why you don't show any systemic solutions because you don't have any money. This is what Prime Minister Morawiecki said, and it can reach the deficit next year. Today we read in the explanatory memorandum to the bill that the FUS deficit may increase, but no one has actually even counted, if so. No one has indicated how this increased deficit will be completed. I'm telling you straight away: stay away from our money. If you file a bill here that will eliminate OFE, it will be the second dissection of OFE. If you want to steal 40 billion Poles under this law by handing over to the Demographic Reserve Fund, from which you will then make promises, we will not allow you to do so. The Poles will go out into the streets and won't let you do it. It's gonna be a citizen's money heist. It can't be that the savings of hard-working Poles will want to eat in one year. That's what our consent will never be. Unfortunately, we will not support this because you still have not shown systemic solutions or sources of funding. The modern one is considering whether to abstain in this vote because we want to support pensioners. Show me your savings because you're throwing money in the government to the left and the right. Show real savings that we will implement in times of economic prosperity, sensible, systemic solutions. Count what you spend. Let's see the sources of funding. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u367	Thank you. Ms Urszula Pasławska, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u368	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are looking at a law that could be a law that will have universal support, could also be widely assessed, would be appreciated if it were not for the fact that it contains certain errors in this version, it is incomplete and non-systemic. I appreciate the fact that after almost four years of government, you have noticed the problem of senior poverty. Although you pride yourselves on the fact that poverty in Poland is decreasing, that you are fighting poverty, the CSO calculated that more than 4.5% Poles live below the minimum existence, i.e. for less than PLN 582 a month. The poorest social group are seniors today. Do you know that in the last three years the number of pensioners living in extreme poverty has increased by 13% ? Do you know that 80% Retired people complain about too high living costs compared to previous years? Seniors in your rule must be more indebted to survive. Since 2013, the total debt of pensioners has increased five times. These are facts. Therefore, we folks need not be persuaded to support socially beneficial projects, supporting seniors, senior policy. Social policy in general requires consequences and time. We've made some adjustments. We look forward to a meaningful and concrete discussion. It's about three blocks of amendments to this benefit, this supplement, because it's not thirteen. We know very well that 13 in the general sense is a reflection of retirement. This, however, is, of course, a much lower standard benefit. It's just that this supplement isn't disposable, so it's a permanent addition. If you have the conviction that you will rule in the coming years, you will pursue your programme. If you don't, it's our duty. Let's not put pensioners in such a situation that this is a one-time situation, here and now, that maybe it won't happen again. Why should pensioners pay for the fact that there are no parliamentary elections next year? Will the cost of living be lower next year? Will the pensioner pay less for the drugs, for the food, for the apartment? I don't think so. The second amendment concerns the valorisation of this benefit. The third amendment, perhaps most important, concerns a certain way of thinking about benefits for pensioners and pensioners. The third amendment states that this should be an untaxed supplement. You are talking about PLN 1100 on the one hand, but on the other hand the government is already counting the money that will return to the state budget. It is unfair, such a false assumption that pensioners receive 1100 PLN because they will receive 880 PLN. We support this bill, but we ask for our amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u369	Thank you. I invite Mrs. Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, now!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u370	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Retired people don't deserve to be treated as you treat them before the Europarlia elections. You treat them like the people you want to use in your campaign. It's very unfair. You treat retired people very badly, you treat them as a matter of fact. [[Game in the O.R.]] If this is funny to you, I congratulate you, Madame. Why do you treat them like this? If you really wanted to help pensioners, you'd be thinking about it for the last three and a half years. You haven't once leaned over the fate of the retirees. If you really wanted to help the retirees, you'd be working on this system and you'd tell us all how you got the money for all the extra things you call "A" plus, which really should be called "A" plus. Richard Petru and I filed an interview with the Ministry of Finance right after you announced your ridiculous election program, asking what you want to finance five plus. On March 28, we received an answer from the Ministry of Finance, in which every question about every point of your election program we received information that there is no answer to this, that at the moment we are working on it, that you do not know where to get the money. On the question we have asked about the deficit and the public debt, you say exactly the same thing: at the moment we are working on it, we do not know where to get the money for it. You are summing up the whole response to the interpellation: it is far too early at the moment to tell us, the Members and the pensioners, as well as where you will get the money for it. That's why this program you're presenting is a strict electoral program and only to buy retired votes. What I said before: you just want to use them for it. Another thing that is actually disgraceful and terrible: Prime Minister Morawiecki, Mrs Rafalska a year ago here in the Seym, promised to help people with disabilities. At the moment when we were talking about extra money, or 500 PLN for each adult disabled person, or 270 thousand. people in Poland, heard from the Prime Minister, from Mrs Rafalska, that the budget is not made of rubber, that the budget will fall apart, that one can not give and the other can be taken away, that there is simply no money. If you really had the money for it, if you'd actually saved it somehow, then in the last budget, 1.5 months ago, we'd have decided it. You didn't do it because the A+ you offered not so long ago is just to cover two towers of Jarosław Kaczyński. [[The voice from the hall: Oh, my...]] But so that it is not so easy for you and if you really want to prove that you care about the fate of pensioners and that you really want to improve their fate and that you really want them to have more money, we are now making an amendment that says that this agreement should not be a one-off service, but an increase in pensions and pensions by 92 zł each month. You will have the opportunity to show whether you are really interested in the welfare of pensioners or merely voters. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u371	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. Question time - 1.5 minutes. Mr Szczerba has the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u372	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Beata Szydło at the PiS convention said that the 13th pension was a gift to Jarosław Kaczyński for all pensioners. It is not 13th retirement or no present, but today I pay attention to what Prime Minister Morawiecki said: that Polish pensioners dream of pilgrimages to Medjugorje. Prime Minister Morawiecki, I would ask you to come down to earth and see what real problems Polish pensioners, Polish pensioners and Polish senior citizens have. Polish pensioners die very often in SORs, Polish pensioners wait six months to get to specialist doctors, Polish pensioners wait six months, one year for rehabilitation, Polish pensioners do not have any support, because you have rejected the law on help for independent people, Polish pensioners have taxed benefits because you have rejected the pension law without tax, Polish pensioners are also independent and in this group there are people with Alzheimer's disease. I've been making an amendment for this group of patients for three years, and you're rejecting it with a great deal of consequence. Older people are also disabled people and their carers. You haven't executed the Constitutional Court's judgment in four years. These resources belong, this support belongs, this is not a gift. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is your duty, which you are running from today, to present a project that is unsatisfying, but, of course, supported by us and will be supported by us in the vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u373	Thank you. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, PSL - UED.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u374	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question for the Minister: Will you support the pension project without tax? Because the government hasn't put forward a position on this at the moment. I think that the current argument that there is no financial means has been overturned, because these funds are, just money and it would be much cheaper to do so if we started to process this project. Why, if this is such a good solution, do you want to use it only for one year? Why not apply it every year? Make a gift to the pensioners and the rencissists, let them get the so-called. Thirteen every year. Because someone calculated that if we divide it into four years, it would be PLN 8.80 a month. What is the blessing? It's praise... Once again, can you as a government support a citizens' pension project without tax? Regardless of the answer, because pensioners are waiting for this solution, I would like to say that the discussion in this Chamber shows that after the autumn elections this project will be carried out - a project submitted by the citizens' committee and previously submitted by the Polish People's Party, which you rejected. We're gonna make it happen because today these voices confirm that there's a will. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And that's a system and a good solution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u375	Thank you. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u376	Dear Minister, High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club, 15 I make an amendment with the following wording: One-off cash benefits are not payable to Members and Senators who are currently carrying out a parliamentary or senator mandate accordingly. I myself am a retired man, and I believe that Members and Senators should not receive this 13th pension. There are really people in Poland who are more in need of such support and I expect that we will lean on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u377	Thank you very much. And Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u378	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! From this discussion it is clear that this is actually done Only in connection with the election. You don't vote, you don't report the possibility of taking over the next years of this service, with the addition of the thirteenth pension. Why? 'Cause if the retirees get word that they're gonna have that money in the years to come, what's gonna get them to go to the polls? If you say that all these benefits will be granted, the opposition will take back, how it wins the election, then this is a clear example of what your cleverness is all about. You're going to force them to go to the election to vote for this solution. It's just not fair, you're cheating these people. I'm surprised you guys haven't come up with an idea to just pay that money off on the election boards yet. Whoever comes and votes for the PiS gets 888 zlotys. That's your approach. It's really embarrassing that you come up with these ideas and take advantage of poor pensioners. Modern will not support this project. We're in favour of a system solution. We believe that the best way to really improve the financial situation of pensioners and pensioners is to increase the tax-free amount. This is the best solution because it will actually take care of the least earners and those who receive the lowest pension and pension. Therefore, such solutions will be supported by us, while what you do is smart. Unacceptable. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u379	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Rzoniec. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u380	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The opposition, part of the opposition, is wrong and doesn't want to leave. And that's a good thing. Stay out of it. You will not scare Poles, especially pensioners, that they will get the money. You won't scare them with that. Your arguments are nothing, because... There were such voices from the opposition that there is no coverage, there are no sources of funding for these 10 billion PLN, because that is about what we will need to spend on a one-off financial injection for pensioners. So just stick to your mistakes, and that's your business. We want to improve the decent life of pensioners. After 3.5 years of government, there is money in the state budget for things and things that have been unfinished over the years. That money came out, so the conclusion is one: we can rule, we can rule. There's money, we see social problems, we're going to touch every social sphere that requires a solution and state interference. It's not gonna be like the state's rocks and shit. If we see a problem and there is a problem in the form of a very difficult situation for pensioners, then we just want to solve this problem. And we're starting with this kind of financial dedication. Poland can afford it. The state budget can afford it. Retired people are happy, and you guys criticize. Thank you very much. [[And for teachers, where's your money?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u381	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Tomczak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u382	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If you really see the problems of Polish pensioners, if you really respect them, first of all this should not be a one-off benefit during the election period. It's not a sign of respect or goodwill, it's just a certain carrot, even the election sausage that was shown to pensioners this year. If you really respect them, show them the funding for the coming years. First of all, this is not a one-off benefit during the electoral period, because it is not a serious treatment of Polish pensioners.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u383	Thank you very much. Mrs Urszula Rusecka. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u384	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question, but before I come to the question, it is difficult for me not to address the statement of the total opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an expression of your powerlessness. How can we say that we have never once bowed down to the fate of pensioners? What else did we do at the beginning of our term of office? We've reduced the retirement age you've extended. We have taken various actions over this 3.5 year. Minister! Is it true that we have spent more than 600 million dollars on free medicines for 75+ seniors and that we have introduced the "Availability"+ programme with funds of about PLN 23 billion? We allocate funds for care services at home, support for local governments - it's also for people of 75+. I'll just give you the difference in management. In 2015, there were 99 institutions, which included 2072 people in respect of the houses of.Senior+. At the end of 2019 there will be 741 houses and they will take care of more than 18 thousand. Seniors. So how can you say -- this is the height of your hypocrisy -- that we don't deal with pensioners, we don't care about pensioners? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u385	Thank you, too. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u386	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law on one-off cash delivery was analysed by many opinion makers. Many of them have pointed out that improving the conditions of pensioners and pensioners should be done on the basis of other solutions, not incidentally, as they claim, by the thirteenth salary, retirement, pension. I ask the question of how many of these opinion-makers, apart from their monthly salary, do not receive an annual prize, 13, 14 and other additional benefits. I'm sure there's no such person. Then why can't they get a 13th pensioner's salary? And second question: How much has the lowest benefits increased in recent years? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u387	Thank you very much, sir. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Marcin Zielenecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u388	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank you very warmly for the discussion that took place at the first reading in plenary today, for the substantive discussion that took place at the social policy committee today. I took part in the debate at the committee meeting. It can be said that a number of comments - and here too these comments appeared in the course of the discussion - concerned the financing of one-off benefits to pensioners in 2019. Firstly, I tried to overthrow the myth that appeared during the first reading in this House that these would be benefits that would be financed by the Labour Fund. Such a thesis also appeared in the media. I encourage you to analyze the impact assessment of the regulation, analyze the provisions of the bill. It can be said that the project clearly indicates that one-off benefits to pensioners in 2019 will be financed from those sources from which pensions, pensions, social pensions, pre-retirement benefits are financed, i.e. those benefits to which the beneficiaries of this bill are entitled on a daily basis. Of course, one such source of funding is the Labour Fund, but this only applies to people receiving pre-retirement benefits, which are also financed by the Labour Fund. As regards the establishment of a draft law on the financing of benefits, I tried to draw attention in the committee's discussion to the fact that the social security system and the labour market are two elements of the combined vessel system. The better the situation on the labour market, the less unemployment is, the higher the activity rates, the higher the remuneration, the better the situation of the Social Insurance Fund and this fund can be said to be able to finance pension benefits or such accessories. This is the nature of the benefit that we are discussing today, and this is the assumption of this bill. Mrs Kochan has tabled amendments to this draft during the meeting, amendments which, in her opinion, are an expression of some concern about two provisions of the law: Article. 14 and Article 14 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 15. Art. 14 is a provision which in 2019 excludes the application to pension benefits of two articles of the Public Finance Act: Article. Article 29 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 10 and 12 and Articles. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 point (4) (a) b. After the committee meeting, we examined the origin of this provision as well as the article. 15 laws. And what do you find out, ladies and gentlemen? It turns out that this is a provision, which is accompanied by the various remedies contained in the pension law in relation to the amount of pension benefits accepted in previous years. And here I would like to reassure you that also the provisions that were adopted in 2012 - I mean the Law on the amendment of the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund, which introduced an accidental, one-off, amount valorization at the level of 71 PLN - contained exactly the same provisions: Article. 9, which excluded the application of Article in 2012. Article 29 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 10 Public Finance Act, and Art. 10, which authorised the Minister responsible for public finances to carry out transfers between parts, divisions, chapters, paragraphs of planned grants of expenditure related to the financing of the valorisation provided for in the Budget Act for 2012. It can be said that these are solutions which accompany such mechanisms to correct the principle of determining pension benefits. During this discussion several times, I find it deeply unfair that the government has done nothing in the last 3.5 years to improve the situation of pensioners and pensioners. I do not know, I have the impression that you have not followed for 3.5 years what has been happening in this House, the solutions that have been put in place to improve the material situation of pensioners and pensioners. I would like to remind you: 2016 - supplementing the low rate of valorisation with a solution consisting in the payment of one-off pension allowances; 2017 - also a low rate of pension benefit valorisation and a decision to increase the lowest pension benefit to 1 000. PLN with actually no record of 13.3%; 2018 - relatively higher valorisation, because at the level of almost 3%; 2019 - guaranteeing pensioners and pensioners - I think that pensioners on 1 March of this year during the valorization of pension benefits, however, felt the introduction of this solution - the amount increasing pension benefits by at least 70 PLN. These are also expensive solutions. It's worth paying attention here. The cost of this year's valorization, complemented by this mechanism of guaranteed amount of valorization, is almost PLN 8 billion. We can say that this solution, which we propose in this bill, is part of the actions that we have taken and are taking to improve the material situation of pensioners and pensioners. Each of these actions, notice you, I also mean those decisions on payment of one-off allowances, was one-off, right. These were instruments of such single support, and this is also the assumption of this benefit, which we call the thirteenth pension. Let me put it this way that during the discussion here, Mr Kasprzak intrigued me and asked me a question about the concept of a non-tax pension scheme. During the discussion at first reading, this thread also appeared several times. I think that this discussion is also an opportunity to overthrow a myth that operates in public space and is repeated by many Members of the opposition. Namely the myth that in the case of pensions we are dealing with double taxation. Ladies and gentlemen! Anyone who has completed, I think, at least once in his life, the tax return of PIT, knows that pension contributions are deducted from the tax base of personal income tax. Everyone, you can say, is aware that we do not pay tax on pension insurance contributions. We're dealing with a tax deferral. Since we do not pay during the period of insurance, the benefit that we obtain as a result of the right to a pension is subject to taxation. The Member asked me when he would get an answer for this project here. That's how I answer. I look forward to the fact that you will begin to provide correct, lawful information on the rules for the taxation of pension contributions. It is also worth mentioning here, I think, the cost of this idea of a pension without tax. In total, this is a yearly cost of about 35 billion PLN. This is not only the cost of income tax on individuals, but it is also the cost of health insurance, i.e. health insurance contributions paid by pensioners and pensioners. I think these are the most important remarks. We will have another committee meeting and I will be able to answer the specific questions that have been asked here during this discussion, also during the committee meeting. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u389	Thank you. The rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Bożena Borys-Raccoon, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u390	Dear Marshal, Thank you very much. I wanted to be brief because we're after a very turbulent debate this morning, which took place in a full room. Then there was a difficult, but very substantive work on the committee. I thanked her in the report. The current discussion has nothing to do with the two previous ones. I'm really wondering who's playing for the election campaign here. Some of the amendments tabled now, at the time of reading, are amendments which the committee rejected after examination and a very thorough explanation by the Minister. It seemed understandable by now. It is only from this point that I can recommend that everyone present listen to themselves and thank the Minister for his patience and invite him to the committee meeting. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u391	Thank you, Madam President. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 19 mins 27 hrs. 19 min 34]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Health Commission on the draft law amending the pharmaceutical law and the law on medicinal activities (prints 3303 and 3348). I ask Mrs Bernadet Krynicka to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u392	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Health, I have the honour to present to the High House a report on the government draft law amending the pharmaceutical law and the law on medicinal activities, print No 3303. On 21 March 2019 the Marshal of the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Health Commission for first reading. The Health Commission held its first reading at its meeting on 3 April 2019 and examined the draft law. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. The project was adopted by the Council of Ministers at the request of the Minister of Justice. It was created in cooperation with the Minister of Health and the chief pharmaceutical inspector, i.e. institutions responsible for the supervision of the drug market, especially the safety of Polish patients whose right is access to products that save health, and sometimes and life. The project, which left the Health Commission, focuses on one very important aspect - it is a reduction in illegal drug exports, which thanks to the negotiations conducted by the Ministry of Health are often much cheaper than in neighbouring countries. Beneficial conditions for Polish patients attracted interested parties who, using the free movement of goods between Poland and the countries of the European Union, buy medicines in our country and then sell with high margins to wholesalers in Germany, Austria and Denmark. The fight against this has been the subject of many legislative initiatives by the Minister of Health. The activities so far focused mainly on extending the powers of pharmaceutical inspection and on enabling cooperation with the national tax authorities using a traffic monitoring system, which allowed inter alia. to effectively reduce illicit fuel trafficking. However, these actions did not include the introduction of criminal sanctions, which, in the government's view, are always the ultimate tool in the fight against irregularities. The introduction of these sanctions is the subject of a proposal submitted to the High House today. The scale of irregularities and the methods to which criminals resorted indicate that even exhaustion of the administrative route may not be an effective weapon in the fight against the drug mafia. Specially founded drugstores, wholesalers with double accounting, fake clinics, and even veterinary clinics - so far they were able to go those who at some moments in pharmacies lacked up to 200 medications. The amendment extends the circle of people who can be prosecuted for illegal drug exports and identifies cases where a pharmacy can sell the drug to another party. Criminal sanctions are also being tightened up. Today it is a fine, a limitation of freedom or up to 2 years in prison, while the project provides for up to 10 years of imprisonment for those who are involved in the export of drugs at risk from a list published by the Minister of Health. Ladies and gentlemen! The proposed amendment closes the ongoing efforts to eliminate illegal drug exports for many years. It will allow even more intensive negotiations, thanks to which the Economic Commission acting at the Minister of Health lowers the prices of medicines that save the lives and health of Poles. Already today, some of them pay 100 PLN for the inhabitants of Słubice and his neighbour from behind the Oder 100 EUR. We want Polish patients to benefit fully from the fruits of these successes, and each pharmacy offers citizens a full range of products. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! In view of the positive effects of the proposed amendments, I propose that the High Sejm adopt the attached draft law together with the amendments adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u393	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Anna Czech, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u394	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the club Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club vis-à-vis the draft law amending the pharmaceutical law and certain other laws. The proposed amendment of the pharmaceutical law is primarily intended to eliminate the so-called "treaty." reverse distribution chain of scarce drugs by obtaining medicines from the retail market, e.g. from pharmacies, through pharmaceutical wholesalers, which will then resell these medicines abroad at a price which is several times higher than the permissible national price for medicines refunded. This activity causes a shortage of medicines on the Polish market, and consequently poses a serious risk to the health and even the lives of our patients. In this respect, the project envisages, firstly, the penalisation of certain behaviours of pharmacies, wholesalers and other entities to effectively counteract this turnover, export of medicines, foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses and medical devices, secondly, the penalisation of the behaviour of the wearers involved in this operation. The proposed provisions provide for criminal liability for the violation of the ban on drug disposal by the pharmacy, the breach of the ban on drug disposal by the wholesaler and the criminal liability for the operation of the fence involved in the reverse chain. The project also provides for the penalisation of exports and disposals of special purpose foodstuffs abroad to the Republic of Poland without the required notification, contrary to the opposition of the chief pharmaceutical inspector or before the deadline for notification. In addition, it provides for increased criminal liability for the above mentioned. behaviour in case of significant drug trafficking and illegal drug trafficking at risk of lack of availability. On the other hand, the project prohibits the purchase by wholesalers of drugs from pharmacies, creates a closed catalogue of entities to whom a pharmacy or a point may dispose of medicines, introduces a clear ban on the purchase by a medical operator of any medicines for a purpose other than the provision of benefits, introduces new powers for inspectors - it is a very important issue - to manage the opening of a controlled facility, premises, premises or storage facilities. It also provides for the possibility to inspect such an object or a clipboard. It introduces an obligation for the police or the Border Guard to provide the necessary assistance to inspection or inspection inspectors when they encounter resistance or when it is necessary to ensure that inspection activities are carried out without interruption. The solutions presented in the draft will ensure effective prevention of illegal export of drugs abroad, that is, the reverse chain of distribution of medicinal products. New regulations will increase the supervision of the pharmaceutical market and reduce illegal export of drugs abroad, and pharmacies will increase the resources of products at risk of lack of availability. On behalf of the club Law and Justice I am amending the draft law amending the Pharmaceutical Law Act. This amendment follows from the pharmaceutical community's report at the committee's meeting... This was discussed by Members of the Health Committee. Right now, Law and Justice are making such an amendment. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 in point 6. in the following Article: 86a in the mouth. 1 add point 4 as follows: point 4 in order to supply entities other than those mentioned in points 1 and 2... as necessary to operators authorised to market medicinal products, medicinal products listed in the provisions issued pursuant to Article. Article 71 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 point 2. Justification: the amendment aims to enable purchases at a public pharmacy or at a pharmacy as a rule of the same medicines that can be bought at a public store. Operators other than patients and healthcare professionals will be able to purchase them. Necessary... operators authorised to market medicinal products, e.g. schools, kindergartens, workplaces to fill in the first aid kit. In summary, the Law and Justice Club is in favour of adopting the bill because it will prevent the lack of medicines necessary to save the health and life of our patients on the Polish market. Thank you very much. I'm making an amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u395	Thank you. Mr Rajmund Miller, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u396	Mr. Marshal! Minister! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Club, I have the honour to present the position of the club vis-à-vis the government's draft law amending the pharmaceutical law and the law on medicinal activities, print No 3303. The aim of the revision of the Law called Pharmaceutical Law is to introduce legal solutions that will enable effective prevention of the so-called "pharmacy law." reverse distribution chain of scarce drugs. What my previous speakers were talking about... Despite the fact that in the previous term of office we introduced a number of penalties, financial penalties, penalties consisting in the deprivation of such an entity's right of activity, i.e. the deprivation of concessions, this practice still exists in Poland. The amendment sets out the responsibilities of persons involved in the marketing of medicinal products, introduces criminal liability for violations of pharmaceutical law orders and prohibitions, amends the criminal rules and introduces regulations to allow for the smooth conduct of inspections or inspections of economic activities in the field of the distribution of medicinal products. So what the previous speakers were talking about, i.e. the pharmaceutical inspector carrying out the inspection, will be able to benefit from police or Border Guard assistance today in order to carry out effective control of the entity concerned, to enter the entity where the business is carried out, and to check exactly what is happening there, because it has been so many times, there have been many cases in which, for example. Such wholesalers were led by double accounting. The reverse chain is that there is buying from the retail market to the wholesalers. That's what this bill prevents. The wholesale, and often other entities, are precisely due to this large price difference... On the Polish market, these prices were set by the Ministry on very favourable terms and are among the lowest prices in the European Union. These prices are often four times higher in European markets. These businesses go into billions of zlotys, and therefore they are a great temptation. I am very pleased that, as a result of the discussion at the committee's meeting, we are not discussing online drug sales today thanks to the amendments, because these provisions - together we have come to this conclusion - could, above all, continue to cause risks to the patient's health, because there is no specific responsibility, e.g. The courier who supplies the medicine to the patient and, on the other hand, was an opportunity to start new routes of drug export. Thank you very much for this. We're gonna have to work on that. I am also pleased that, at our request, which we have tabled as a minority request, an amendment has been introduced that will eliminate a certain pathological record causing inequality of entities. The point is that a pharmacy that would sell OTC drugs for an invoice - because let's point out that this was also about OTC drugs, which is not prescription drugs, not drugs that are exported abroad, but drugs that we can buy in a regular supermarket... If someone purchased these drugs in an ordinary supermarket for an invoice, neither the buyer nor the seller would be liable, while paradoxically the owner of the pharmacy and the entity who bought the same medicines for an invoice in the pharmacy would have to be subject to criminal liability. Since these irregularities have been removed - I hope that this amendment will be adopted, because we have not discussed online drug sales, and at the next stage of the debate, we may already be able to come together in connection with another law, which will be the best for patients - because we have abolished the inequality of operators, which concerns the pharmacy and the store selling medical supplies, i.e. prosthetics, corsets, trolleys, etc. - these will be topics for further discussion - Civic Platform Club - The Civic Coalition supports this law and will vote in favour of it as a state You're introducing her today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u397	Thank you, sir. Mr Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u398	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! By discussing this bill, I can't go back in time. In 2002, everyone was excited about the Rywin affair, and a year earlier in this building, there was a pharmaceutical law in this House, and an invisible hand then removed four words from the rule. Since then, there's been a game of criminals playing cat and mouse with the state. And what were the words? The record was: Responsibility would therefore arise in two cases: either in the absence of authorisation, or in the absence of authorisation, but the trader does not comply with the requirements. The words fell out of it or against its conditions. A few years later, Poland joined the European Union and allowed criminals to start the crime. It started to get so exciting that over the next years certain drug groups began to disappear from pharmacies and Polish patients could not buy them. And the truth is, the pharmacy is to allow patients to buy drugs. This correct distribution chain is simple: manufacturer - pharmaceutical wholesaler - pharmacy - patient. Criminals, as all of my previous speakers mentioned earlier, took advantage of price differences, reversed this chain and began to take drugs abroad on a mass scale. As a curiosity, in the city where I was elected as a Member, in Kalisz, an entrepreneur with a network of pharmacies was transporting these drugs, not by cars, but by trains from the railway sidewalk. That was the reality. Years passed, no one tried to introduce solutions in this topic, but the government of PO - PSL, who knew about the mass scale of this phenomenon, in 2015 actually depenalized it and introduced only financial sanctions, taking away criminal liability. All those who were dirty automatically started to wipe their hands because they avoided criminal responsibility. And this bill, which we're proceeding on right now, is bringing back a clear and legible Penalization. The case is serious, so I must quote you the response of the Minister of Health to my 2016 interpellation, which I have issued in this case. This answer may give you a sense of what the problem is. I quote: As pointed out by the Chief Pharmaceutical Inspector in his letter of 30 October 2015, the links that can be observed by examining the administrative files of the pharmaceutical inspection bodies give rise to the claim that organised criminal groups involved in the illicit marketing of medicinal products have taken place. According to our documents, which we have sent to ABW, CBA, the police and the prosecution of various levels, including the Attorney General, this is an organized group of former and present prosecutors, doctors and pharmacists. That's the Ministry's answer. By the way, what did she do with this ABW and CBA material? I haven't heard. Some kind of action in this area. I'd like this bill to work so that there's a criminal record, and the criminals eventually have a criminal responsibility, but... That's right, it's a butt. Previously, a lot of irregularities were caught by pharmaceutical inspectors, there were cases addressed to the prosecution. I will remind everyone here of the famous cases from the Lublin State's Attorney's Office, which, after reporting crimes, were massively relieved. There was such a puriazum, and here I will remind you very generally, that in the case of one of the criminals who was proven to export drugs for 45 million, the case was dropped because there was a low level of social harm and he was repentant. It's just a farce when it comes to law enforcement. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So what if we vote in favour of this bill at the moment, which we will also do, if there are no amendments, then the enforcement of the law is none, because the prosecutions will not do the work they have been called to do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u399	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Łopata, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u400	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I have the honour to present our comments, our position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the pharmaceutical law and the law on medicinal activities. High Seym! Okay, first of all, attention. With regard to the title of the Act, which we are now proceeding on, which we are now discussing, I have taken into account whether or not I have quoted the title of the Act contained in the order and schedule of proceedings. This point is important because, at the meeting of the Health Committee, as has not been said much before, the ruling party has decided on a rather surprising action. Namely, a very extensive amendment was tabled, thanks to which the second part of the original title of the law was no longer valid for a good cause. Most importantly, this also applies to the content of the text of the project. I said that the amendment was surprising, because, in fact, the government, this government, is moving towards its own set-up, without paying particular attention to the opinion of others. This time it happened differently, and well, you can even say: very well. We could expose to huge costs and really dismantle the current system of reimbursement of medicines, which is worth about 20 billion PLN in Poland, because the Polish reimbursement system is based on rigid prices and margins of medicines. A very realistic example appeared from Germany, which a few years ago decided to sell prescription drugs on mail order. As it may have been predicted, the organisation defining itself as a patient organisation in cooperation with the Dutch online pharmacy has challenged Germany for a violation of the law by demanding the elimination of rigid prices for prescription drugs. The Germans, as we know, have lost this trial. It should be assumed that this would undoubtedly also happen in Poland. There would be no problem to move this scenario to Polish soil. In the event of losing, and I think it would be certain, I'm 100 percent sure, our country would have to abolish the refund bill, losing complete control of the funds spent on the medicines refunded. I told you earlier what a government of magnitude - 20 billion PLN. It should be noted that thanks to the Refund Act Poland today has one of the lowest prices of medicines in Europe. Glory for that. I think it is also important to note that this regulation on online sales was a sort of bypass, a kind of bypass in the case of the so-called regulation introduced in 2017. the pharmacy bill for the pharmacist. Just trace the lobbying of companies in this and that case to such a conviction, to come to that conclusion. High Izbo! I told you that this big change proposed by the PiS club is a change in the right direction. However, I must regret to say that, at the same time, the government did not agree to the proposal for a provision allowing pharmacies to participate in the Charter of the Large Family, although there had been such proposals before, there had been such a provision in this Act. It's a big incoherence. On the one hand, the government talks about social projects supporting families, on the other hand it is not able to introduce such a necessary entry into this law. High Izbo! As regards the legal solutions that remained in this original text, which aim to counter the so-called mechanism. The reverse drug distribution chain and the introduction of legal instruments to effectively counter this phenomenon, on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I declare my support for these solutions. This procedure has, of course, evolved over a number of years depending on the regulations that were in force at the time. Unfortunately, despite the solutions that have now been announced and the Penalization of this phenomenon, it will probably be the same. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's too much money to make it clean. It is therefore worth analysing the behaviour of the market every day and reacting ahead of time. We're in favour of such solutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u401	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Marek Ruciński, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u402	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! High Izbo! Illegal drug export is one of the main problems facing the pharmaceutical market in Poland for years. I believe that today's proposal to amend the Pharmaceutical Law Act and some other laws, where I have the honour to present the position of the Modern Posel Club, is crucial to improving the activity of this segment of the economy. I believe that solutions that are included in the bill will limit the scale of exports of drugs outside Poland. Poland is the sixth market in Europe in terms of sales of medicines. Eurostat data show that exports of drugs increased by an average of 14% in Poland in 2001 and 2016. per year. It should include primarily medicines with so-called "drugs'. domestic surplus, meanwhile according to data from the Supreme Audit Chamber outside Poland, medicinal products are exported from a pool intended for Polish patients. Their value exceeds as much as PLN 1.5 billion per year. Therefore, as legislators, we are obliged to introduce solutions that will ensure that Poles have access to the medicines they need and reduce the negative effects of their marketing. Until now, legal gaps have caused export of drugs abroad to be possible. This generated many times greater profits than selling the same drugs in the country. The high criminal sanctions provided for in the draft law for such measures should stop this practice. I am referring, above all, to the sentence of imprisonment. Change is going in the right direction. I can imagine that in the case of many market players who, as a result of drug trafficking, achieve high profits, the fine is simply not effective. In addition, with the so-called phenomenon. The reverse supply chain of scarce medicines will help to combat rules that clearly define the possibility for healthcare providers to purchase medicines and medicinal products only for the purpose of providing services. I am convinced that the implementation of such solutions will reduce the list of drugs at risk of lack of availability. This is all the more important because from year to year more medicines appear on the list. Since 2016, their number has almost doubled and in January this year. as many as 388 items are on the list. To sum up, the procedated project introduces very good solutions to prevent the emergence of shortages on the market, which could pose a risk to the health and life of Polish patients. We're assessing him positively. Modern will vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u403	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Question time is 1 minute. Mr Tomasz Latos, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u404	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! Firstly, I wanted to express my joy at these joint declarations. Turns out there are things that connect us. I'm very happy for you and congratulations. [[We're not a total opposition.]] Thank you, sir. It's a good thing there are things we've been fighting for years, let's be clear. There were various ways to solve this problem. Now we have another proposal, hopefully effective. I am very pleased with this initiative and congratulate you very much. I would also like to say that it is good that the comments and observations that Members shared before the procedure and during the process of the project have been noticed and taken into account by you. I think we can all feel a great deal of satisfaction together. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u405	Thank you. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u406	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! My colleague at the Kukiz club15, Jerzy Kozłowski, mentioned a scandalist who brought medicines worth PLN 45 million and did not suffer any punishment for it. Dear Minister, I would therefore like to ask: What was the value of medicines illegally exported from Poland in 2011 and 2018 according to the Ministry? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u407	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Law and Justice. There's no envoy. Mrs Zofia Czernow, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u408	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! This project is very much needed and important. However, I have a question about a question that should not have happened. Let me explain this in an example. Suppose I run a sports club and I need to buy meds for the training camp. On the basis of the order, I buy drugs at the pharmacy and receive an invoice. According to this bill, it's a crime. On the other hand, if the same medicines - they are available to the public - I would buy on the commercial network, then everything would be fine. Does the Minister intend to change the situation of schools, kindergartens, etc. on the purchase of publicly available drugs? This situation is just a paradox. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u409	Mr Rajmund Miller. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u410	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! This is a good bill, and if we do not strengthen the role of the State Pharmaceutical Inspection, it will be ineffective. Does the Ministry intend to take steps to strengthen the powers of pharmaceutical inspection and its funding? Second question. Are you going to change the nature of the pharmaceutical inspection? The inspection says that some pharmacies do not come into the pharmacies network, only the invoices themselves, and they are legally moved from the voivodship to the voivodship. In a given voivodship, the pharmacy can only be controlled by the pharmaceutical inspector assigned to it. If such a shift occurs between 16 voivodships, it may last 16 months, so you will not really know where these drugs are located. The last question concerns the penalties charged by the pharmaceutical inspection with a total amount of about PLN 1 billion. Few of them were executed. Is it not possible to introduce a statute of limitations? What are you gonna do to make him eat? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Execute? This is almost PLN 1 billion. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u411	Thank you. Mr Jacek Tomczak. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u412	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask: What was the amount of illegal drugs being exported in recent years? The second question concerns the Big Family Charter. What about the amendments that affected her? Is there a chance for them to be introduced? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u413	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I invite the Undersecretary of State to the Ministry of Justice of Mr Łukasz Piebiak. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u414	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have shared with the Minister of Health the answers, because the law concerns both criminal policy and the drug market, where the Minister of Health obviously has better knowledge. To answer the questions of Mr Romecki and Mr Tomczak at the same time, because this has happened again, concerning the value of illegal exports from 2001 to today, I will say that this is about PLN 2 billion per year, i.e. about PLN 166 million per month. These are objective data from the sources of the Supreme Audit Chamber. I don't think anyone's questioning them. The scale is serious, so the better that this bill has a chance to enter into force quickly. By the way, thank you very much to all the clubs for supporting this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u415	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Mr Maciej Miłkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u416	Ladies and gentlemen! I will answer Mrs Zofia Czernow's question about buying from pharmacies by other parties. She has just tabled an amendment that allows schools, kindergartens, employers and other institutions, i.e. other entities, all medicines that are available to the public at normal points. It is in a separate regulation of the Minister of Health. It's about OTC, drugs available without a prescription, at normal points of sale. The drugstores will be able to sell them, and it won't be legalized. As regards Mr Miller's question of strengthening the chief pharmaceutical inspector and the voivodship pharmaceutical inspectors, we are still trying to increase the quantity of pharmaceutical inspectors and employment. As far as turnover is concerned, at the beginning of the week, they entered long-awaited provisions by all, the Chief Pharmaceutical Inspectorate, concerning the Integrated Marketing System for Medicinal Products. It will be possible to greatly increase the typing and work intensity of law enforcement authorities, because these data will be transmitted online and on the basis of the information we receive, we will know where the irregularities are. It is in this area that the Chief Pharmaceutical Inspector has received an additional dozen posts to monitor this turnover, prepare reports and prepare typings regarding the situation that is taking place today. As far as fines are concerned, what has already been issued will have to be recovered, and with the introduction of the new rules we will go to criminal rules. As far as the Large Family Charter is concerned, in fact in the first project these records were. We guarantee that, in the nearest amendment, we will return to these records and analyze them again. We will introduce them in the near future, because there are important elements of amendments to the Refund Act and the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law of the Occupation of Pharmacy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u417	Thank you, Minister. Please take the floor of the rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Bernadet Krynicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u418	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I would like to thank all the clubs very warmly for their meaningful and constructive work on this project. We all know that we are convinced that this government project is very much needed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u419	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u420	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position towards the government's draft law amending the pharmaceutical law and the law on medicinal activities. The amendment partially implements into the Polish legal order EU Directive 2001/83/EC on the Community code relating to medicinal products for human use. The aim of the regulation is to strengthen the supervision and marketing of medicinal products and, as a result, to cut back the practice called the reverse chain of distribution of medicinal products. This is important because today the law does not limit the disposal of drugs by pharmacys in any way. The situations in which medicines to which you pay, medicines to be refunded, are carried out abroad and sold at a profit are extremely high. The scale of this activity is so large that it is said that the drug mafia is active in Poland, and the wholesalers operating in this industry are practically impunity. Everything, of course, because of the lack of data of preparations on the Polish market, takes place at the expense of Polish patients and their health and life. The regulations contained in the project are specific when the pharmacy will be able to dispose of medicines. In this way, the acceptable direction of distribution of medicines is comprehensively regulated, and thus the patch is broken today by the law. A number of new provisions are also envisaged in the novel to provide pharmaceutical inspectors with full access to all warehouse premises, including closed ones, and to allow them to use inspections to assist police officers or Border Guards. I am convinced that these solutions will contribute to the improvement of the control activities carried out and will eliminate situations in which PIF employees are intimidated in the course of their work or are restricted to moving freely around the facility they are checking. I have no doubt that in order to meet the objectives of this project, it is also important to clarify the voivodeship's powers to impose financial penalties for the illegal sale of medicinal products, medical devices and foodstuffs for particular nutritional purposes by medical operators and new, much more severe sanctions, which leave no doubt that anyone who, contrary to the law acquires, disposes, imports, exports or stores a medicinal product will be subject to a penalty. I trust that the regulations discussed today are designed to protect Polish patients and will effectively counter illegal drug exports abroad. About Free and Solidarni supports this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u421	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Health Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. At the request of the government, I declare a time-out. 8:30. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 minutes 14 hours 20 min 30]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Request for a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development of Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski (prints No. 3264 and 3294). I would ask the applicant's representative, Mrs Dorota Niedziela, to present the reasons for the proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u422	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Club, I have the honour to present a motion for a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski. As a club, we believe that in January, Minister Ardanowski should resign himself. He should resign for: the scandal caused by the illegal slaughter of cattle, the rampant [[Applause]] the ASF epidemic, the fall of the Pride of Poland auction and the drought lie. In view of the fact that Minister Ardanowski did not resign himself, he forced the opposition to make an application in this case. During the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, at which it was put to the vote, Minister Ardanowski stated, among other things, that the arguments for its cancellation are, I quote: stupid and trivial. [[Voice from the room: Because they are.]] High Izbo, listen to what Minister Ardanowski thinks is stupid and trivial. Minister Ardanowski showed special helplessness and incompetence in the face of the crisis concerning Polish beef. On January 26, the whole of Poland, through TVN station, saw with its own eyes what illegal slaughter of cattle looks like. From this moment began a deadly image crisis for Polish beef in the country and in the world. Meanwhile, only 5 days after the outbreak of the scandal, on 30 January, Minister Ardanowski, responsible for food safety in Poland, spoke publicly. Instead of acting, he blamed journalists for the international scandal. Minister Ardanowski in a chaotic and emotional television presentation was limited to the announcements, and I quote: we will burn the practice with hot iron. After the outbreak of the scandal, Minister Ardanowski tried to wait out the crisis rather than immediately present a plan for the necessary solutions. On the other hand, beef from slaughter, which took place without the supervision of a veterinarian, has already been in retail networks and catering centres of 14 European Union countries. Let me remind you that exports are crucial for the cost-effectiveness of beef production in Poland because we send more than 80% abroad all production. The value of this export, please countries, is EUR 1.5 billion per year. After the minister failed to convince the public that the beef scandal was a journalist's duck, he began in panic to make unrealistic promises of repairing and strengthening the Veterinary Inspection. Minister, now you've noticed that the Veterinary Inspection is in crisis? Now you're announcing employment for 2,000. veterinary surgeons? Let me remind you that in January you rejected the proposal of the Civic Platform to increase the budget of the Veterinary Inspection in 2019 by PLN 200 million. [[And why didn't you increase it?]] Minister, where have you been, without competitions, how have the positions of voivodship, county, border veterinarians been filled? Where were you when 13 voivodship doctors were mentioned in 16 voivodships? [[And where were you in your previous term of office?]] High Izbo! The consequence of the lack of rapid action by Minister Ardanowski is the first two-stage audit of EU inspectors in history. Forever, the lodger will be associated with Minister Ardanowski. Minister, are these stupid or trivial arguments? High Izbo! During the time of Minister Ardanowski's office, the ASF epidemic developed rapidly in Poland. 2018 was a record year in this respect. [[Applause]] [[You're in control.]] I will remind you that in 2015, when PiS took power in Poland, there were three ASF outbreaks on farms and 83 cases of infected boars. Today we have 214 outbreaks of disease in pigs and about 4,000. cases of diseases in wild boar. In January, ministers of agriculture and the environment announced a massive wildfire as a remedy for the fight against the ASF epidemic. Minister Ardanowski publicly triumphed and screamed at the cameras that he needed to knock out the reptile. That's how he made a scapegoat out of a wild boar. At this point, I'm going to use the words of the classics - I'm very sorry, Mr. Marshal: bioinsurance, you fool. Just killing wild boars without hygiene, following procedures on farms won't do any good. These are scientific opinions. [[Applause]] But for this, we need efficient and well-paid veterinary services that are not there, and we need adequate help for farmers who are not there either. [[The farmers got the money.]] Of course, Minister Ardanowski will immediately say that veterinary services will be strengthened and farmers will be supported. But the Minister has been saying that for eight and a half months. And what does that say? There's no sign of anything. [[What have you guys been doing for eight years? Suddenly that's what happened?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Because of the ASF epidemic, a minimum of 100,000 were killed in Poland. pigs. Over the last 3 years, 67.5 thousand have disappeared from the map of Poland. swine flocks. Thousands of farm families are left with no means to live, but with loans. Those most determined today are fighting court battles for their money because they were denied compensation. How many of these farmers have you visited, Minister? You are about to boast that the government spent PLN 145 million on the fight against the ASF virus in 2018. [[And there are results.]] And I answer to you: in 2018, the prizes in the institutions you supervise were spent - how much? - $265 million. So 120 million PLN was spent on prizes than on the fight against ASF. [[Scandal.]] Minister! The epidemic is decimating its flocks. Because of an ASF you can't handle... [[Don't yell. Calm down.]] ...family farms fall. The pork market is at risk throughout Poland, a market worth PLN 18 billion. Veterinary inspection's on schedule. And that's a stupid argument? How 'bout a fairy tale? [[Lying.]] Minister Ardanowski also failed during last year's drought, which affected Polish agriculture on an unprecedented scale for several decades, ladies and gentlemen. [[Unusual help.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The truth is that farmers did not receive adequate aid. Minister Ardanowski knew from the beginning that he would run out of money for the high compensation he promised. That is why, even before the commission's work was completed, he started to consciously create a dry reality and continues to do so. The government has not presented any above-standard aid measures promised by the head of the agricultural department. Minister Ardanowski July 17th Ub. He admitted with disarming sincerity: We use the tools developed by Mrs Kopacz's government in 2015. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! $1,000. zł za ha so-called. Drought is the sausage that Minister Ardanowski had for farmers during the local government campaign. Minister, today, in this Chamber, tell me how many farmers and what area the famous 1 000 have received. Evil for ha. Minister, please stop saying that - and here I will quote you - never in the history of Poland, free Poland, has there been such aid for a natural disaster. That's a lie! [[Right!]] Well, High Izbo, I would like to remind you that due to the floods in 2014, social transfers from the budget to the victims amounted to over PLN 3 billion. Minister, in response to the interpellation you yourself wrote, I quote: the damage caused by the drought in 2018 was estimated at PLN 8580 million in the country. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] However, at your conference on 29 March we learned that 2200 million PLN was paid to farmers. [[It's a nightmare.]] Minister, you left the farmers alone with losses of PLN 6380 million. Are those stupid or lame arguments? [[Applause]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! An excellent example of the inability and lack of competence to serve as Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development by Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski is the original performance of intervention buying apples. Minister Ardanowski publicly declared that the intervention buying-in of apples would be carried out by a private company that was friendly with the government of PiS. The company was selected without any tender, then granted government guarantees for PLN 100 million of the loan at the Bank of Environmental Protection. But instead of 500,000. t only 200 000 have been removed from the market. t apples for which the seedlings have not yet received full payment. For the past three months, the intervention case for apples has been investigated by the Central Office for Corruption and the Public Prosecutor's Office. Or are these trivial and stupid arguments too? Ladies and gentlemen! I often hear that the opposition only deals with Arabian horses. Well, we will scream about it until the end of the world and one day longer. We're gonna scream as long as the other ministers don't stop... [[Promises.]] ...to destroy the achievements of eight generations of Poles. [[Applause]] Minister Ardanowski promised publicly: I will rebuild the auction in Janów. Meanwhile, the Pride of Poland Auction, which took place in August 2018, was the worst in its 49-year history. Only three horses were sold for 254,000. Euros. Let me remind you that in August 2015 24 horses for EUR 4 million were sold at the auction in Janów Podlaski. Each day two state studs in Janów Podlaski and Michałów painfully feel the effects of a good change. At the end of 2015, Janów's stud profit was 3,200 thousand. zł. In 2018 he ended up with a loss of PLN 3 million. Four more teams of PiS managements squandered over PLN 6 million without any responsibility for it. For the first time in its 66-year history, the Michałów horse stud recorded 1.5 billion... 1.5 million losses. Is that a stupid argument or a lame argument? [[You're wrong about the billions.]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! In a moment, Minister Ardanowski will come to the stand and talk about great successes. He'll probably be talking about the implementation of a famous village plan. I'll help the Minister. With regard to the effects of your eyes in your head, namely the Act on Agricultural Retail, I kindly inform you that 3900 farmers have benefited from the new rules for 1300 000. holdings. As far as the effectiveness of the debt relief bill is concerned, I kindly inform you that there is no farmer in Poland who has disposed of the debt using this law. [[The bill's only three months old.]] Minister, if you know him or maybe you've met him, introduce him to us. High Izbo! As far as the number of loans that the NOWR granted to farmers last year is concerned, I am in a hurry to respond: zero. And KOWR had 10 million zlotys for it. Minister, 2,000. officials were unable to run at least one loan for 3 months. Do you know that? [[Applause]] Last year, however, almost PLN 12 million was spent on prizes in KOWR, although the average salary there is 8 thousand. zł. As regards the replacement of genetically modified soybean with Polish rapeseed, I would like to inform you that you requested an extension of the moratorium on imports of feed based on genetically modified soybeans. Which Minister Ardanowski is more reliable, or the one who promises, or the one who calmly watches the permissions to import 2 million t of soy buckshot per year? [[That's an interesting question.]] High Izbo! If it's a food holding company, it's a food holding company. It's just a little bit like the Yeti, 'cause everyone's been talking about him for four years, but nobody's seen him. Now, seriously. The holding company is to be composed of the state-owned company Elewarr holding grain, which in 2018 had - attention - 17 million losses. Minister! Is a food holding supposed to help farmers, or is it supposed to save companies that are bankrupt under your supervision? As regards the implementation of the agricultural programme for ecology, because this is also in your rural plan, according to Eurostat data, the area of organic production has decreased in Poland from 580,000. ha to 494 thousand. ha in 2017 Are these, Minister, trivial arguments or miserable arguments? Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski adopted an aggressive and ideological narrative in the constitutional office. Political opponents, local governments, and even farmers are burdened with their failure. Minister Ardanowski's farm visits, even those in barns, on stubbles, will not improve the situation of Polish agriculture. The best assessment of the impact of Minister Ardanowski's activities is the agricultural protests of particular groups of farmers, agricultural producers. In December 2018, dissatisfied farmers blocked highways, but Minister Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski is unable to do so. The Minister's list of omissions is very long. Like the list of negligence and the list of unfulfilled promises. Therefore, on behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Club, I ask the High Sejm to accept our motion for a vote of distrust towards Minister of Agriculture Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski. After today's speech, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which you have addressed to farmers who disagree with your opinion, this proposal is all the more appropriate. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u423	Thank you, Member. I ask Mr Zbigniew Dolata to present the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u424	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development an opinion on the parliamentary request for a vote of distrust towards the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development of Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski. The Marshal of the Sejm addressed this request to the Committee on Agriculture on 7 March. The Committee on Agriculture decided at its meeting on 14 March to give a negative opinion. The majority of committee members pointed out that the proposal was made on a political order of the leaders of the total opposition and there is no substantive justification. The allegations made by the PO-KO club... [[Were you listening?]] ...sounded like the first beef crisis. Here is the charge that the Polish food safety system is not tight, and the scale of illegal slaughter is greater than the reporters revealed, that there is no supervision of the institutions responsible for food safety. Members who took part in the discussion pointed out that the event in Kalinów in Mazowsze was of an incidental nature and the Minister took appropriate action as soon as he was informed about it. [[After a week.]] On the other hand, the PO-KO club reproduced a false, media picture of Polish food, which is safe, tasty and healthy. The accusations of the PO-KO club fall when the beef sector started to make up for its losses.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u425	Excuse me, sir. Excuse me a second. Ladies and gentlemen! I listened to Mrs Niedziela's screams for 15 minutes. I listened patiently and held out to the end. [[Voice from the hall: What screams?]] I have a duty to maintain the level of debate, and therefore, if we have listened to the applicant, now please listen to the Member. And I ask the PO-KOs not to scream, simply. For 15 minutes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[But don't insult me, because I wasn't screaming, I was just doing my job.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u426	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! The accusations of the PO-KO club fall when the beef sector started to make up for its losses. EU control has been carried out and this bears the mark of consciously harming Polish farmers by politicians of total opposition. [[Applause]] The members of the Committee on Agriculture pointed out that in other EU countries such a situation in parliaments would be impossible. We have examples of incidents not like this, but serious violations of the law. For example, the dioxin scandal in Germany. There the opposition did not use this kind of situation to attack the government, the Minister of Agriculture, although it probably should. The standards of total opposition - attention was drawn to by the members of the agricultural committee - are different and unfortunately harm Polish farmers. It is significant that the EU Commissioner for Health and Food Safety, Mr Andriukaitis, defends the good opinion of Polish food, which is trying to tarnish the total opposition. [[That's who they are.]] This is indeed a rather unique situation and demonstrates the level of our opposition. An example is the European Commission's position on the extraordinary control of Polish beef carried out by the Czech services. The Czech control was called inadequate in relation to a unilateral and individual incident. Members also pointed out the lack of logic, consistency of the proposal, as the alleged fall in the beef sector is being criticised and at the same time notes that this export is crucial and that its value is constantly increasing and currently amounts to EUR 1.5 billion per year. Members also pointed out that Polish food exports amounted to PLN 20 600 million in 2015 and increased to nearly PLN 30 billion in 2018. The positive balance has increased from 6 billion to nearly 10 billion, and this, of course, is due to the Prime Minister's government, the Minister of Agriculture. This isn't happening alone. Minister Ardanowski presented to the members of the committee the ad hoc actions which he took after obtaining information about the incident in the Kalinów plant, and the system which he is preparing and which are intended to ensure that such incidents, but nevertheless adversely affecting the image of Polish food, are not present. The Minister stressed that the supervisory system was accredited and was audited by the European Commission. It is a system recognised by all EU countries on a reciprocal basis and is a credible system. This is the opinion of the EU countries. It is a pity that it is not shared by members or politicians of total opposition. The Minister also announced that he would go to the PO-KO club's applicants to show on the basis of which data they claim that the Polish food safety system is not tight and the scale of illegal slaughter is supposed to be higher than reported by journalists. The Minister's actions have calmed the beef market, prices have returned to the old level. Poland beef, I will say it again, is safe, healthy and tasty, is exported to third markets and more and more readily consumed by Poles. This is what we should take care of, and Members of the governing coalition, and Members of the opposition. I particularly address these words to Members of the opposition. The second allegation, concerning ASF, was that in 2015, when PiS took power in Poland, there were three ASF outbreaks in pigs and 83 cases of infected boars, and now there are more. Members pointed out that the Platform and PSL government, when the first ASF case appeared in 2014, had unfortunately not done all the work it should have done. [[It's a joke. It's a joke. It's a joke.]] These omissions were compared to what happened recently in Belgium when one ASF outbreak occurred and the authorities of the country decided to shoot all wild boars within several dozen kilometers. In this way, the outbreak of this disease has been eradicated, and this disease is not spreading in Belgium. This was not done in Poland. The charge of the PO-KO club was also such that announced in January by agriculture ministers and the environment the shooting of wild boars as a remedy, a way to fight the ASF epidemic... He made a wild scapegoat, and the slaughter of wild boars, contrary to people's opinions, was to replace a three-year period of abandonment of the rule of law and justice. [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] It has been pointed out that the charge is pointless because there are no people of science, scientists who would know about this problem and who would give such recommendations. Furthermore, EFSA and the European Commission present the actions of the Polish government, the Minister of Agriculture, as exemplary, I repeat, as exemplary in the fight against the ASF epidemic. [[Applause]] [[You're manipulating.]] The Minister informed that there was no ASF outbreak in pigs from September to December, and in January there was one, so the problem is under control. [[214.]] And it's worth talking about because the government, which works like this, cares about business. [[He didn't do anything.]] On the other hand, the PO-KO club has repeatedly made proposals to increase wild boar shots, voted in favour of special laws on the fight against ASF, and now criticises those actions for which it has adopted itself. However, this is a kind of political schizophrenia. [[Applause]] At this point, the Minister also replied that employment in the agricultural administration had increased by 3,000. employment. [[It's a lie.]] In fact, 2177 people have decreased by the end of 2017 by the end of 2018. It is also unfounded that the Minister distributed PLN 264 million for the agricultural administration. This is simply due to labour law rules. Employees are entitled to prizes and bonuses. There is also a kind of political schizophrenia, because applicants themselves claim that, even if the Veterinary Inspection is underinvested, other agricultural institutions are underinvested. If the Minister transfers additional funds to the staff of these institutions, it seems to be working for the development of agriculture, precisely for the smooth functioning of the agricultural administration. Another charge was the collapse of Arabian pure-bred horses and the Pride of Poland brand. The farmers who took part in the committee's meeting considered that this topic was marginal for the interests of agriculture at all, but the minister explained that the allegations that the results of the horse auction had deteriorated significantly were wrong. [[Six million. It's marginal.]] The results of the auction from a few years ago were artificially exaggerated, the sale of horses was the culmination of wider transactions, including the settlement of horse lease contracts abroad. [[Voice from the room: Don't embarrass yourself.]] The Minister also pointed out that it is impossible to talk about the fall of breeding in studs, because the number of mares is the same - approx. 2600... [[Voice from the hall: What about the stallions?]] ...and the number of stallions increased from 50 to 76. So there can be no collapse of breeding. The Minister also recalled that the Platform and PSL coalition carried out destructive activities in the field of horse breeding. He gave an example of the privatisation of the horse stud in Kozienice. As a result, this stud actually disappeared from the breeding map of Poland. In addition, the Minister recalled that 11 strategic companies, including seven state studs, were preparing for a similar privatisation of the Platform and PSL coalition. The Minister also announced that the Pride of Poland auction is returning to Janów Podlaski and will take place on 9 and 12 August this year. The last plea, the allegation of inadequate aid to farmers affected by the drought. The farmers themselves who took part in the committee meeting thanked the Minister of Agriculture, thanked the Prime Minister and the Government... [[On the street today, too.]] ...for being able to respond, for - here's a quote - a large amount of financial support, support on an unprecedented scale. There were also thanks to the Minister for separating plant and animal production, for example. farmers of cattle farmers were able to obtain compensation for drought losses for the first time in history, which was not before because they simply lacked this total loss, 30%. [[For a lollipop...]] The Minister explained that the government allocated a record amount of PLN 2215 million to combating the effects of drought, the amount which has never been allocated in Poland's history to help farmers affected by natural disasters. [[You weren't listening. It was in 2014.]] By comparison... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No, it's not, sir. Drought in 2015 had a similar range in the area... [[What are you saying?]] ...and then the coalition of Platform and PSL to help farmers allocated PLN 450 million. [[How embarrassing are you?]] That's 1/5 of the amount that the Law and Justice government has allocated. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[You're lying.]] The Minister also pointed out that Germany, which was affected by the drought to a similar extent as Poland, allocated EUR 340 million to its farmers, i.e. about PLN 1.5 billion - and there aid is provided by the federal authorities and the land. [[♪ The bell ♪]] As vibrant Polish voivodships, then mostly ruled by the Platform, they did not allocate any gold to help farmers. [[Time.]] Other merits of Minister Ardanowski were also exchanged, but since the time for my speech ends, in summary, I can say that most of the members of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development have found that the proposal is unfounded and the allegations are wrong, false, invented for the political fight against the total opposition with the Government of Law and Justice. That is why the Committee on Agriculture has given a negative opinion. I ask the High House to vote against the motion for a vote of distrust against Minister John Krzysztof Ardanowski tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[That's how we vote.]] [[The presidency includes Deputy Marshal of the Seym Beata Mazurek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u427	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1a The Rules of Procedure of the Sejm can only be Questions are not acceptable as a separate element of the debate. Mr Robert Telus, Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u428	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! Prime Minister! Ministers! High Izbo! We have already become accustomed to the fact that at the next session of the Sejm we have another motion for a vote of distrust towards the next minister. I would like to inform the total opposition, the PO-KO, that in the club of Law and Justice, we bet on which minister will be the next minister whom you will issue until further notice. [[Joy in the Chamber]] You could laugh about it, but I'd like to get the good stuff out of it. And the positive thing is that thanks to the vote of distrust, we can present what the Law and Justice Government has done so far in this area. [[Applause]] Today we have the opportunity to say, to present to the High House, but above all to farmers, Poles, what has been done during these 3 years in the field of agriculture. I will start by saying that Minister Ardanowski is implementing a plan for the village, which was already presented by Minister Jurgiel. [[Four-year-old girl.]] This plan is being implemented. This is a good plan for the village. Such a good plan for the countryside, pro-agricultural and pro-rural, has not yet been. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Exactly.]] This plan is implemented, among others. The tax return has been increased to 1.18 billion. Gentlemen and Members, until now you have ruled and have not increased this, you have not taken this opportunity to give farmers more money. We raised it to 100 ha. We gave, Minister Ardanowski also gave for cattle - up to 30 l per piece. You could have. You didn't. Against drought - it's in the program, it's in the plan for the village. Ladies and gentlemen, you're mocking me, but no one's ever given that kind of help before. This is about PLN 2215 million. [[Spare me the shame.]] There's never been that kind of help. The rapporteur compared it. You gave 400 million in 2015. You told the farmers to enjoy this 400 million PLN. We take Polish agriculture seriously, we take aid to Polish agriculture very seriously. [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Agricultural insurance. How many screams were there about insurance? 630 million PLN - a record amount so far. For your government, 180 million, if I remember correctly. Ladies and gentlemen, that is the difference between you and me. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! There's nothing more important than shortening the road from the field to the table. The idea is to ensure that our Polish products are not made by intermediaries, not by the companies you brought to Poland, but by the Polish farmer. Therefore, it was for us, for Minister Ardanowski and for Minister Jurgiel, that laws were introduced, which allow for sale, for direct sale by farmers. Ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you: up to 40,000. PLN without tax, over 40,000. - 2%. You can sell products in agrotourism, on canteens, to restaurants, also to shops. And what did our predecessors say for many years when we were members of the agricultural committee? They said it was forbidden that the Union forbids it. Ladies and gentlemen, you've been lying to us. I understand that you lied to Polish farmers. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Liars!]] [[The voice from the room: They lied!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It's a symbol. Minister Ardanowski has called together 170 organizations so that we can sit down and talk about problems in Polish agriculture, because they are. On the same day, my dear country, the total opposition filed a request for the cancellation of Minister Ardanowski. It is symbolic that you do not want to talk about the problems of Polish agriculture, but you want to do a political hucpa, which is what you do at every meeting. Dear country, 170 organisations, agricultural organisations, sat down to talk together about agricultural problems, how to solve these agricultural problems, how to cope in times of globalisation, how to cope in the European Union, and at that time you are making a political hucpa. Ladies and gentlemen! You were talking about ASF in your argument. It's a joke. It's just a joke. If there is an organism and there is a cancer in one place, it can be handled. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u429	Mr President, time is ticking. Go ahead and finish it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u430	If the body is infected with cancer, it is very difficult, but we are praised that we have managed to cope with ASF. 60 municipalities, ladies and gentlemen, are already exempted as regards ASF. What did you do? You banned shooting wild boars at that time. Summary. Ladies and gentlemen, a summary of how important Polish agriculture is to us, how important it is to Minister Ardanowski, how important it is to Prime Minister Morawiecki, is one sentence which Prime Minister Morawiecki said from this speaker. He said very important words: there will be no strong Polish economy when there will be no strong Polish agriculture. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u431	Thank you. [[10 million pigs imported. 10 million cattle imported.]] Mr President, don't yell, no one's deaf here. You'll have an opportunity under other circumstances to express your opinion. Please take the floor of Mr Kazimierz Plocke, PO-KO. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u432	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Minister Ardanowski has been in office for nine months. This time of your activity is negative. This is due to the following facts. Firstly, you are responsible for reducing the agricultural budget for 2019 by PLN 1.5 billion compared to 2018, when you knew very well that in 2018 Poland suffered drought on an unprecedented scale. Both you and the Prime Minister have promised over-standard aid to farmers: 1 000. zł for 1 ha. All of Poland heard that. According to the information provided by the Ministry of Agriculture, PLN 2.2 billion was paid to farmers. In turn the Ministry of Finance informs that the committees appointed by the voivods estimated losses at PLN 8.5 billion. Minister, what about the other farmers' applications? Will they receive the government's announced financial assistance? If not, the farmers must be announced: no more payment. [[He's going to the tree.]] Secondly, you are responsible for the low level of use of money from the European Union for the implementation of the Rural Development Programme in this perspective. The information shows that Poland's absorption of money in March 2019 amounted to 29%, while for the Union as a whole - more than 49%. What is the result of such a weak level of use of money? We are afraid that you will not be able to spend the budget on the RDP, which the PO-PSL government negotiated for Poland in 2013 at EUR 13.5 billion. Minister, this money is waiting for Polish farmers, this money is simply due to them. [[Applause]] Thirdly, since the 2015 elections, the government has made promises to farmers without covering them. The government's flagship project to compensate for direct payments or doubles, as anyone would prefer, looks terrible. How will you, Minister, explain to Polish farmers that since 2021 they will receive lower subsidies than today? It's from the bills. The current policy of the PiS government is a guarantee that Polish farmers will lose the chance for a large budget from Brussels for the countryside and agriculture. Fourthly, in April this year. 3 years after the PiS government banned the sale of agricultural land other than farmers. [[Voice from the room: Very good.]] Practice has shown that this law has caused damage to farmers, the national economy and has hindered the development of investments in rural areas. Earth's prices haven't dropped, on the contrary, they're growing all the time. Currently, the price for 1 ha of agricultural land in Poland is about 45 thousand. zł. We warned the government that it was a legal bubel, and Poland is threatened with infringement of European Union rules. Importantly, the sale of land to foreigners was not stopped either. Minister, are you still handling this? Because we feel like you're lost in all this. Now, on top of that, you've brought even worse laws of the Land Act to the Sejm. We're gonna debate this. Finally, fifthly, Minister Ardanowski is the heir and successor of the wrong staff policy. In 2015, 28 thousand were taken over. posts in agencies, institutions and companies. [[Who's talking?]] The government takes due care of this human capital, especially with regard to management positions placed by PiS activists. [[Look who's talking.]] It was outrageously accepted that in 2017 140 million PLN was allocated to prizes, and you, Minister, broke this record: in 2018 paid out - attention - 265 million PLN. That's indecent. And this is all happening, Minister, in the eyes of millions of farmers, in the face of the catastrophic effects of the worst drought for decades, the ASF epidemic, staff collapse in the Veterinary Inspection, the brand crisis: Polish good food, the crisis situation in the apple market, the bankruptcy of Arabian horse studs or the consent of the Polish government to conclude an agreement between the European Commission and Ukraine concerning the presence of Ukrainian poultry in the EU and thus on the Polish market. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The list of charges against Minister Ardanowski is long. According to our club, the allegations are sufficient for the High Sejm to accept our motion for vote of distrust towards Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski, Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Don't get your hopes up. You can't convince anyone.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u433	Please take the floor of Mr Jarosław Sachaika, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u434	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present my position on the motion for a vote of distrust towards the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development of Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski. When Minister Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski was a minister over 9 months ago, I thought he was the right person in the right place to deal with a very bad situation in the Polish village. Unfortunately, as other protests show, such as today's AGROUNI, I was deeply wrong. The main problems of today's agriculture are: cutting farmers off from the market, the lack of processing and detail that the Polish farmer would be affected by, low prices of agricultural products, prolonged problems in the fruit market, especially recently seen in the context of the purchase by Eskimos. I cannot overlook the drastically reduced national budget for agriculture this year. [[Exactly.]] And today I have been informed that the Minister of Agriculture has recommended a 50% reduction in the costs of the various research institutes. Minister, if this is true, this means eliminating these institutes, eliminating Polish agricultural knowledge. More ministers ensure that every year is better. Unfortunately, improvement can only be seen on ministerial paper, because every farmer will admit that more and more effort must be made to keep the farm, not to mention the fact that the art of survival has been successful in an increasing number of farmers. However, this situation has not been going on for a year, not for two years, but it is the result of many years of negligence, which is a percentage of the governments of SLD, PO and PSL. I wonder what ideas and proposals for improving the situation of Polish agriculture have those who are now demanding a change of minister. The critics point out mistakes, point to the burning problems of farmers, but these are the same things that were pointed out to them when they were in power for years, and the motion for a vote of distrust for the next minister is covered by their long-term inaction. I am convinced that if the application for the cancellation of the current minister were satisfied, it would be only a matter of time before the next head of the Ministry is distrusted. I would like to stress that Kukiz,15, in particular, expects systemic changes. Therefore, as Kukiz,15 we have tabled several draft laws containing ideas consulted with farmers and villagers, which are ready material for legislative work. I would like to mention, for example, a project to increase the share of national protein crops in feedingstuffs, a proposal to release from senseless restrictions on the cultivation of fibrous hemp, a project to reform agricultural chambers, promotion funds, a project to combine food inspection inspections or a draft law on the merger of research institutes subordinate to the Minister for Agriculture, which, as it turns out today, the Minister wants to liquidate. Many PSL ideas, PiS have been talking about for years, but only Kukiz15 has prepared projects and is ready to work. Actions, not promises made once again, are what farmers expect. Unfortunately, the problem is that the Ministry does not want to use our proposals, which I consider to be one of the signs not accepted by Kukiz15, but ubiquitous in Poland and pro-party thinking policy: only us, only ours. In conclusion, I would like to ask for the cessation of the party fights and once again call for concrete action and joint work. Only in this way can we fix Polish agriculture, or actually the state, because the problem does not concern this or another minister. You have already given a vote of distrust to many ministers. When Law and Justice were in opposition, they behaved identically. [[Exactly.]] Evil is a party rule system that causes resorting principalities. The Minister of Agriculture has no influence on the ministers of the environment, finance, infrastructure, health, without which favors, or perhaps it should be said: grace, his actions will always be doomed to failure. Without changing the system, we will continue to play in the theater of appearances, which the applicants are funding us once again. On behalf of thousands of farmers, I appeal to the rulers for courage, firmness and immediate implementation [[♪ The bell ♪]] agricultural programmes so that farmers are a real middle class, not a debt-indebted, bankrupt candidate and emigrant.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u435	Finish your work, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u436	Finally, a few promises from your election paper. 1.2% for agriculture from the national budget, without the CRUS. How much is it? 0.4%. Introduction and compliance with quality standards for imported agricultural and food products, p. 3 - not realized. Marking of foods determining the country of origin, p. 3 - not realized. Setting up a single rural development agency by consolidating... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u437	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Paul Beida, PSL - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u438	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! As regards clarification for the rapporteur: the value of Polish food exports in 2015 exceeded EUR 27 billion, not EUR 20 billion, and the positive balance was not EUR 6 billion and EUR 7 billion. [[Applause]] And it's a shame that you didn't give that card you gave to the agricultural minister in front of the farmers who are protesting today. The PiS claims that the motion to dismiss Minister Ardanowski is political. The same was true of Minister Jurgiel. In a moment it turned out that our opinion was shared by President Kaczyński and ordered Mr Jurgiel to be dismissed as Minister of Agriculture. Let us hope that for the sake of Polish farmers, food producers and consumers who pay for food, President Kaczyński has to cancel Minister Ardanowski. Mr. President! It's time. Prime Minister! There's nothing to wait for. The sooner the better. Since the Polish People's Party is always close to the issues of the Polish village, we are concerned about the state of Polish agriculture. [[100 years ago.]] Then today we will vote in favour of recalling this minister, who not only can't do anything, it's nothing yet. He can't. It cannot stop the avalanche contagion of African swine fever, which is the cause of the collapse of thousands of family farms. He can't pay the farmers for the apples he promised to concentrate interveningly as part of a government intervention buyout... [[Voice from the room: You're lying.]] ...which is why farms, buying and processing companies are bankrupt today. It cannot create the promised food holding company, and the companies on which it was to be based record losses, e.g. Elewarr in ub. r. recorded losses of PLN 17 million. [[You shouldn't have sold out companies under your rule.]] Everything you touch in the field of agriculture turns to loss. In 2018, 150 agri-food processing companies submitted a sales offer, including the famous Hortex, which was privatized in 1998 by AWS, and Appol, a large producer of food concentrates. So? The Americans, the owners of Hortex, sold Hortex to the British in 2018, and Appol bought the Chinese. Where were you then, Minister? You've ruined your chance to buy back our family silver. Today there would be no problem, among others. with intervention buying apples. Why aren't you opening up new markets, including the East, and you tolerate multimillion tons of Russian coal imports into Poland? You cannot raise EU subsidies to Polish farmers, to which your colleague from the government has admitted. You can't even spend those record high financial resources that we have guaranteed the Polish countryside for the current financial perspective. Poland is at the gray end of spending these funds. That's 29%. It's embarrassing and shocking. You can't even provide national support for Polish agriculture. The budget for agriculture entered in the State budget for 2019 is 8 billion PLN lower than the one we left behind in 2015. It seemed that there could no longer be a better minister from PiS than the minister of sleepy Jurgiel, but no, it turns out that there is a minister of Reptile Ardanowski, who can speak a lot, lecture everyone and does not result in anything. [[It's insulting.]] Maybe you wanted Polish sadists to stop producing apples and start growing oranges and bananas. Why? Because you wanted to create tax preferences for oranges and bananas at the expense of Polish sadists. Why aren't you intervening on mass imports of questionable quality food into Poland and inefficiently defending Polish food on foreign markets? Where are these new agricultural advisors promised by you at every Polish embassy in the world? Why is there no Polish flag for good and healthy food? Why do farmers not have guaranteed prices for their products? Are you confirming that today in Przesiek you said that the protesting farmers you spoke with earlier are intellectual voidness? [[Shame.]] Why didn't you defend the farmers when Minister Brudziński called them hooliganery? [[Shame.]] For the past few months, we've been telling you to get to work! Today we say goodbye to you! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u439	Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u440	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! I don't think I'm going to bully the Minister anymore because the arguments of my previous speakers showed very precisely why we are going to discuss your appeal today. [[It fell on him, somehow, poor, he had to pick himself up.]] Mrs Niedziela has also made all these arguments very precise, but I will present a few more reasons why the Modern Club will vote in favour of your appeal. When I heard the rapporteur speak just now, I said, "Wow, that's great. [[Voice from the room: 'Cause it is.]] It's genius at all. [[The voice from the room: Well, it is.]] And those farmers who protested today, I think they're here to collect a ladybug because why would they come here? [[Have you seen the village, sir?]] It is a misunderstanding that the protests that have appeared for many months have been underestimated by the rulers. This is really ridiculous. And today's statement that the arguments of those who criticize you, this is intellectual voidness, really disqualifies you. [[Applause]] I'll be honest with you, I won't be surprised if you defend the Minister today that next time... [[Shame! Disgraceful!]] ...farmers will come with their shivs on the stakes to call you off. So, sometimes you have to think about what arguments you're using. It was today. actually unacceptable. [[One group...]] What's going on, Minister, with the Veterinary Inspection, which, in a situation where we have really serious problems with beef exports, is sometimes decimated, you call off very well-deserved veterinarians, you don't know what's going on there, is purgatory done? I think it is important to take into account that farmers' incomes have not increased at all in recent years, while production costs are very high. The question is: What did you do when Law and Justice proposed, going to elections: vote for us, farmers in particular, because we will get you this, equalize subsidies for Polish agriculture? What's going on? Nothing's going on. You're helpless. When it comes to the distribution of money, it has already been mentioned here, what money is spent on prizes. [[Voice from the O.R. On the staff.]] You guys just... [[But you're confused, sir. What does a gingerbread have to do with a windmill?]] ...you're trying to buy... Just like you tried to bribe the pensioners today, that's how you try to bribe the farmers. The activities around the rural hostess circles clearly show what money is used for, which you're pulling out of our money to buy the votes are farmers, they're pensioners. I will tell you honestly that people will not fall for this and will not vote, I hope, for the Law and Justice, either in these elections or in the autumn elections. [[But to the point.]] Why are farmers protesting? Trade in products of Polish farmers limps and is not profitable. And what does the Ministry do to open up new markets? He's not doing anything. Organic farming... [[Voice from the room: 29.]] ...which has already been discussed here today, actually rather than flourishing, unfortunately, the smaller and smaller area is intended for him, and the fact is that indeed our organic food has a much better chance of competing in Western markets. A major problem is the focus of agricultural development on productivity rather than quality, and in times of overproduction of food, this quality should indeed be a Polish brand and we should ensure that it is as high as possible. Farm debt is linked to a major development leap that farmers in Poland have had to face in recent years by buying machinery and equipment. This also makes this competition actually quite difficult. I think that there is much more to be said about these arguments. Minister, you really can't handle this. The best example of how you have no influence on what is happening to agriculture is how the VAT case was dealt with on fruit juices. You didn't completely respond to the Ministry of Finance's proposals, and that was a very strong impact on those who grow apples and fruits. Your reaction wasn't there. If it wasn't for once that President Kaczyński's wake-up call and reaction would probably have passed that bill. And what would you say to those farmers who didn't practically collect? Wouldn't it be apples by now because it wouldn't be worth it? [[♪ The bell ♪]] We're in favour of dismissing the Minister. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[You're doing better with tenements than you are with agriculture.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u441	Mr Jacek Wilk, Confederation, will be the last to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u442	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Confederation with regard to the motion for a vote of distrust against Minister Ardanowski, Minister of Agriculture. It's hard to present such a vote, ladies and gentlemen, because I think we're talking to a person who just hates farmers, because how else can you understand the fact that someone doesn't want to talk to farmers at all? There's been so much talk about dialogue, discussion, and you didn't even let the farmers into the ministry today, and neither did your deputy. [[Exactly.]] Do you know what they wanted to talk to you about? Do you even know what they wanted to talk to you about? For example, about a few hundred decommissioned holdings, about a few hundred in just one... [[White Podlaskie.]] ...region of the decommissioned flocks, which means that these farms will be decommissioned and the whole families will be on the brink. Why don't you... [[No breeding.]] ...to talk to them about it? What are you a minister for? Why are you squealing against the village... [[8 million.]] ...talking about any transfers from town to country? How can you do that? After all, AGROunia has no demands of the nature of transfers, no, only amendments to the law. Notabene AGROunia is an organisation which is not financed by public funds at all. [[What's that?]] And this is very important, this is actually a bottom-up move. And you can't understand it, but that's exactly how it works. That's how it works... [[Voice from the room: East or West?]] ...respectful country. I do not know if you have a farm at all, because you act as if you do not know what Polish agriculture is all about, what are the problems of Polish agriculture. Polish agriculture has been surrounded from all sides by oligopolies. Almost everything a farmer has to buy and sell goes through various oligopolies that dictate prices as they wish. There's no free market around agriculture here, none at all. Agricultural subsidies are several times lower than in other European Union countries. How long is this gonna take? How can a Polish farmer compete with other farmers in this way, how? The markets were closed by an idiotic foreign policy. The Polish farmer does not want grace, does not want subsidies, does not want funding, wants to compete only on equal terms with other farmers, wants to have markets. [[Voice from the room: 29...]] And you should understand that, Minister, at last. So, ladies and gentlemen... [[I like this envoy.]] Thank you very much. I like you too. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen! Shortly... [[Some new trends.]] I thanked him for appreciating what I was saying. [[Very clever.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u443	Mr President, we are not talking about who likes whom at this point.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u444	In short, you have to talk to farmers, not sting some... [[Voice from the hall: Hit the table, and the scissors will speak.]] ...against the other. And you have to understand these fundamental problems. There are only two economic principles in agriculture that govern income in this sector. First of all, whoever sells the product close... the closer they get to the consumer, the more they earn, and secondly, the more the product is processed, the more they earn. The less middlemen, the better earnings. [[Five.]] It would have to be done to ensure that farmers, first, have access to the market, are as close as possible to the consumer and can process their products freely. Then they'll make money. [[Voice from the room: 3,000. the holdings have registered.]] The rules must be released so that the farmer can easily sell his products as close as possible to the market and to the consumer and allow him to process. It can't be like now that a farmer can't even kill a pig on his own and make his own sausage. [[Voice from the room: It can do anything.]] [[Educate yourself and then chatter. Of course he can.]] Yes, sir. And you're running the government, right? That's bullshit. Dear Minister, You hate farmers. You show him every day that he hates them. No one expects you to love them. Just take them seriously. Talk to them. [[Voice from the room: Minister respects...]] You've shown yourself to be an intellectual emptiness. Shame! That is why the Confederation will vote in favour of your appeal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u445	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development of Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Farmers complain, and the country applauds.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u446	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Listen, not talk.]] The submission of requests for a vote of distrust is an emancipation of parliamentarians, and it is always possible to discuss allegations in such a situation. I take all the comments that have been made here very seriously. I assume that this is really due to the desire to solve agricultural problems, not just some political message, a political game. As one of the farmers, I have to say that the allegations that I'm not seeing farmers are ridiculous. I meet with them every day, with tens of hundreds of farmers, also today, so this statement... Unlike you, I have met many times with protest leaders and their assessment concerns specific people, not those who are protesting. On the other hand, I would like to refer very precisely to the accusations made to me, which have been drawn up in a specific seismic printing. I understand that the applicants, on whose behalf Mrs Dorota Niedziela spoke, are now trying to add some further arguments, further accusations, because those which I have described very gently as trivial and trivial are not enough. [[Personally again.]] Besides, by quoting the content of the charges, some of its wordings, because I understand that someone is the physical author of this proposal, she no longer quoted. I would also like to mention to you those statements, which are not only trivial and trivial, but also stupid and harmful to Polish agriculture... [[Applause]] [[The intellectual void, too?]] ... because everything in public space, and in particular in parliament, falls, is also a message that goes into the world. [[You called the farmers intellectual emptiness. That went into the world, too.]] This is also very carefully read by our opponents, by those with whom we are fighting for markets in the world, etc. The applicant said... [[Personally again.]] ...that I'm gonna brag, so I'm not gonna brag, I'm just gonna come up with a very modest list of actions that have been taken in the last nine months, to be precise. I will not talk about agricultural retail, but I would like to remind you that, for a few years, the head of the subcommittee, which had to solve this problem, was Mrs Sunday and failed. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] [[The mask fell.]] [[You're lying. Who introduced the tax laws?]] And all of a sudden, it turns out it worked. [[Lying and arrogance have entered your blood.]] Also in 2014, the only possible provisions for the creation of MOL-i seemed to have been introduced. I'll be brief. Everything that could have been done at that time seemed to have been done. It turns out that there was much, much more to be done, which eventually succeeded, although then representatives of the Ministry under the direction of Minister Sawicki said that nothing more could be done. Food labelling. The Food Marking Act of September 2018 is operated by the Polish Product. I would also like to remind you that some of the losses that were incurred in 2017 were compensated for by the farmers in 2018. It was about 55,000. land that had submelting and heavy rains. There was a mention of agricultural fuel - 1,200 million. Pro-export activities. Many of the questions you have asked could be answered if someone asked me these questions at all. I would explain everything: what new markets we get, what's going on, how many embassies we have counselors. It is worth asking, because then it is possible to get an answer. As far as the housewives' wheels are concerned, maybe we should have introduced this earlier, maybe it would have been your success. [[Applause]] More than 5,000 at the moment. The newly formed hostess circles carry out very interesting and valuable activities. Agricultural cooperatives. The Act allows farmers to organise themselves in groups in order to defend common interests. They also paid tobacco growers because it turned out that someone hadn't paid them before. As regards financial support, advances of 9200 million were paid before December. By yesterday, 93% was paid out. direct payments, and we have the end of the first quarter. I would remind you that the transfer of payments lasts until the end of June, and already yesterday was paid 93%. RDPs in 2017 - 4150 million, in 2018 - 7350 million. It's not my fault, it's because of the efficiency of the restructuring and modernisation agencies, that they're just getting to work there. We solved the problem you left behind in 2015 - an agency tied to strings, which had an IT system at the border of capacity. Maybe it was about us not paying the farmers. Everything's been fixed. [[It's your duty.]] I would also like to inform you that contracting resources from the RDP is at 50% and there is no concern that anything in accordance with rule n+3 will be lost. There are further laws in the Seym, among others. There are many about GMO-free food, about shaping the agricultural system. I'm not gonna talk about plans because that's not the point. On the other hand, I would like to refer precisely to these allegations and point out where also the wording from the text, which went into the world, hurt Poland. [[It's an intellectual void.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if... Besides, there are these allegations at my address, this is a personal application, but also about my predecessor, about the whole story. We have to decide whether these are charges against a certain minister or not. Ladies and gentlemen, the matter that has upset me extremely, very much, also complicates the argument in defence of Polish food after the slaughter accident without veterinary cow surveillance, which could not get up, was the wording that was included in the text: illegal slaughter of sick cows from which meat is not fit for consumption. [[Scandal.]] [[He's not fit.]] [[Voice from the room: scandal.]] If such a phrase falls in an official Seym document... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Just liars.]] ...this, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, is a lie. [[You're lying!]] This is a lie and at the same time it makes it very difficult to regain credibility. [[Liars!]] The meat also examined in this unfortunate establishment, where without veterinary supervision the slaughter was carried out... [[Without premortem examination, it's not fit for consumption, you should know that.]] ...was a safe meat that could be used peacefully... [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u447	Mrs Niedziela, please do not discuss this. Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski: Your marshal, it's hard for me to shout. I know that, Minister, but you can see very well that such talk does not knock the Minister out of his rhythm. Stop it. Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski: This meat was tested and it was safe meat. It was withdrawn in principle, which is in the Union, the principle of foresight, while it was safe meat and it was not meat of sick cows. [[It's a lie.]] It was very difficult to unscrew in the international forum if such lies fall from the Polish opposition. [[Applause]] [[Villains!]] [[You can't react.]] [[You're bad guys.]] Ladies and gentlemen, very specific. The first complaint was beef. So these words really hurt a lot. On the other hand, testing... What doesn't kill you will make you stronger. We have examined all slaughterhouses in Poland, and nowhere have such cases been repeated. We have examined proportionally as much as the Union commands, the parts of beef in the field of salmonella and listeria - negative everywhere. I am convinced that beef from Polish slaughterhouses is the most controlled meat in the world, it is of excellent quality. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] The actions we have undertaken, including during this period, during the first month of rapid repair of administrative errors, administrative errors, that veterinarians did not keep accurate records of slaughter, pre-mortem and post-mortem examinations, that the database of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture was not always available... It's been eliminated. There were also appropriate punishments. This has led to the fact that we now have a system which is a credible system and that the European Commission has welcomed all our actions and, for example, Commissioner Andriukaitis, the Commission, DG Sante's Directorates. The Czechs' doubts and options were completely disbanded and the Czechs had to move away from these inadequate, restrictive controls. Meaning what? The European Commission are irresponsible people? These are people who don't know what they're talking about? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Do they not know what the assessment of the situation in Poland is? [[You'll tell me everything that's written, what recommendations have you received?]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I dare say that this allegation of beef is a charge... Maybe someone wishing that it would be so, that the growing beef market in Poland, the export-based market... [[You're insolent. You're an insolent man.]] ... 80% We need to export to make this market collapse. No, he didn't. After a temporary drop in the price by approx. 1 PLN, 1.20 PLN to 1.50 PLN for a while alive not only returned to the point of origin, but also did not lose any international contracts - this is the most important for me. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] And we're also recovering what we've lost through the sound system... [[Voice from the room: Good name.]] ...and this fake, which around Polish food began to reign after this slaughter without veterinary supervision, supported by such statements as in this application. This has been overcome and we are developing beef farming and production in Poland. [[I can't believe my ears.]] Second plea, ladies and gentlemen. He's like that. It's a neverending story, every once in a while. It's a question of horses, Arabian horses. It's raised very strongly. So I would like to inform you that the allegations that my predecessor made against the heads of certain studs had serious grounds and could have been formulated. Also, the belief that the prices paid for some of the animals issued at auction were not transactional prices but that they accumulated a number of other obligations which had previously been agreed with the buyer are not based on assumptions, but are also based on facts as well as on mare leases and records in those contracts. As regards State supervision of studs and flocks of stallions, I would like to say that the State does not withdraw and never withdraws from the supervision of the genetic resource, which is the basis for the development of horse breeding in Poland, but not only those 4% which are Arabian horses, only all horses in Poland. We maintain in the state studs the state of mares about the same every year, where only some breeding cases result from small differences, a few percent. It is approx. 2600 mares. As mentioned here, the number of stallions is increasing. I don't know if it's necessary, but the breeders suggest so. As a result, the stallions are coming. And no threat to the functioning of horse breeding in Poland, in the part for which the state is responsible, because it is primarily private activities, private equestrian schools, studs, hipotherapy schools etc., there is no danger in any way. We return to Janów not only from Pride of Poland. From 8 to 12 August I invite everyone, as we invite many horse enthusiasts, this noble approach to horses, to auction, to the champion who will also be at that time. Last year the champion was in Warsaw. I think that sufficient justification is that it was the anniversary of the century of regaining independence and this important event should take place in Warsaw. But we've been going back to Janów since this year. We've sent over tens of thousands of invitations to horse enthusiasts in the world. Many of them responded. You will be surprised, but there will also be many people who have so far been quite critical of Janów. There will also be sheikhs of Arabia who are interested in buying horses. Somehow they've been notified. Ladies and gentlemen, the next plea concerns the ASF issue. I approach this disease with great care and humility. She's starting to destroy the world. At the moment, she has mastered China, Vietnam, Laos and Mongolia. He'll probably be in Australia any minute. It is in many countries in Europe. It's a serious disease that the world doesn't quite know how to fight. There is no vaccine and there will be no vaccine in the coming years. Please note that I have never been overly critical of my predecessors, talking about what had to be done in 2014 and 2015, when someone else was responsible for these problems. We've all learned that. The disease-related transmissions, also from the scientific world, were inconsistent with whether the determining factor is human or whether it is also a question of wild boars. Both EFSA and DG SANTE have stated beyond any discussion that action must be taken both in one area and in another. You have to protect the farms, protect them from viral penetration. I think we're doing it pretty well. This year from January to today there was only one outbreak in the farm, in the zone, near the border with the Kaliningrad region. I am quite careful in my assessment, because the weather changes and activity of rodents, pets or birds can make the disease move back to farms, but it seems that bioinsurance is starting to work. The European Commission recommends increasing wild boar shots. Others are happy to do so, and here I hear some tasty and shabby statements that we have become wild. Other countries that want to save themselves or fight it use wild boars. So the Germans who shot down 826,000. wild boars or Frenchmen who create... [[They have $5 million.]] ...wide zones to prevent wild boars are idiots and they don't know what they're doing? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would therefore like to say that the situation is now under control in relation to this disease. [[Krzysztof, spare me.]] We have to take her out. I approach it with great humility. This is a serious thing that must not be mocked or blamed on this issue. On the other hand, it is an absolutely curiosity charge - your marshal, I will finish this very quickly - that is the issue of inadequate aid in the field of drought. It's being said by those who, when there were droughts before... [[1000%]] ...and other agricultural phenomena... Why give an example of a flood that has affected many social groups and not just farmers? You have to think about what you're saying. [[Yeah, well, think about what you're saying.]] As far as farmers are concerned, they have not received such aid for 30 years. Also compared to other countries of the European Union... [[Good. Very good.]] ...touched by this defeat, this aid was the greatest. I will not quote the amounts because you know them very well. Nowhere in Europe is all the losses incurred in any area of the economy compensated by public funding. It wasn't possible here either. [[Eight billion.]] In the mouth of those who with similar drought... I refer to the statements of Minister Sawicki of September 2015, when he defined the extent of the drought and the time limits for its occurrence. The Internet remembers everything. Then 450 million PLN was allocated to help, now five times more. People, you also need to migrate and draw some rational, logical conclusions in making accusations. [[Applause]] [[This isn't about money at all.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I could continue to comment on these allegations, but I would like to say that the issue of Polish agriculture is very important to you. I would like to thank the Prime Minister and my fellow ministers for the fact that, in terms of support for agriculture, I can always count on them. Agriculture and rural affairs are not only the responsibility of the Minister of Agriculture, but also of the entire government, and they are indeed doing so as far as possible. Before agriculture - not only in Poland - there are various problems: globalisation, the displacement of Polish agriculture by countries that become big producers. It's also Russia and Ukraine. There are some sentiments about 30, 40 or 50 years ago that the Soviet Union will buy anything. We need to know what the rules of international trade are right now. Ladies and gentlemen, aid for Polish agriculture is appropriate to the state's ability. [[Time's up.]] We also fight hard for it in the European Union. If someone wants to know what is the state of play of the discussion on the new financial perspective, on an agricultural budget that we do not agree to in the version proposed by the Commission, then I and I can explain everything to him. It's really worth asking, because you get answers and you don't go around like a baby in the fog, pressing charges... [[Keep insulting me.]] ...which are inadequate and miserable. [[Time's up.]] I find it difficult to comment on the statements made by the representatives of the new club, which set itself the objective of eliminating direct payments. That's the friendship and love of the farmers I'm being accused of. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that all the charges raised, if well analysed, have no value. That's the end of it. I invite everyone to a frank and open discussion about Polish agriculture, I encourage you to talk. More than 100 organisations are convinced of these discussions and solutions. Of course, there are also individual organisations who do not like this drafting of proposals. Everyone has the right to protest. I am a man of solidarity, and I have fought my whole life for people to protest. [[You have no right to insult me.]] However, solutions are not developed on the street or in a ditch near the highway. I've met with the leaders of this organization several times. For many hours I have tried to determine what knowledge they have about the agricultural situation in Poland and Europe, international, financial problems and emerging new threats. There are problems in agriculture and there will be more and more problems in agriculture. I must say that I did not get any answers, which led me to a rather radical conclusion and assessment. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] Thank you, Minister. Corrigendum, Mrs Sunday. You're welcome. One minute, Member. [[With a corrigendum?]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u448	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Prime Minister! Minister, the corrigendum. Pre-mortem meat is not fit for consumption. That's it. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Not meat, but food. You can't test the meat before slaughter.]] [[You should know that.]] I'm a veterinarian and I've examined the meat. If there is no antemortem examination, the meat is not fit for consumption. It's simple. First of all. [[Voice from the room: No meat, no food. A living art.]] Secondly, when and how long did it take to launch the RASFF warning system? [[Game in the O.R.]] Why don't you just shut up for a second? The law that allowed farmers to sell was passed in 2014, a tax law, so don't lie. You lie in the morning, you lie at noon, and you lie at night. It's an intellectual void. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[Sit down, woman, don't bother.]] If you don't know...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u449	Madam President, this is no longer a corrigendum. Thank you very much. [[Don't embarrass yourself more than you've ever been.]] Mr Mateusz Morawiecki asked to speak. You're welcome, Prime Minister. [[Applause]] [[We have a farmer...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u450	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! If the liberals of the European Coalition remembered the Polish village, then the proposal can only be one. There's an election coming up. [[Applause]] Because, as one of the farmers from Podkarpacie put it beautifully, as liberals remember about the Polish village, it's a little bit like wolves are taking care of sheep. That's what you said. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, the village has finally found its right place in the area of Polish economy, Polish society and Polish development. Yes, Minister Ardanowski, earlier Minister Jurgiel, co-authors of this success of recent years. You have to realize that. But, by the way, I must say to you that, as you have fired the nth time of these dwarfs on the appeal of our ministers, for me, this is self-incrimination and giving us the field to remind us of what you really could do and what you didn't do and at the same time the field to show how much in the difficult, very difficult area that agriculture is, we have done. [[Applause]] So one at a time. It was mentioned here in several speeches about ASF. Well, he described this problem very beautifully, and it is with humility to approach it, Minister Ardanowski. I'll just remind you when the ASF problem came up. Do you remember? [[Prime Minister, mercy. Three pieces.]] Well, he showed up in 2012, then he was noticed. And in 2014? It's a little curious. Do you remember how your agricultural minister Mr Stanisław Kalemba resigned in March 2014? What did he say? I quote: The reason for my resignation is the failure to implement the agreed arrangements and actions of the government regarding the eradication of swine fever. And what do you say, dear friends of the PSL, dear opposition? [[Three fires, and you've got 214.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u451	Mrs Niedziela, do not disturb me.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u452	So in such a situation you led to the fact that a disease that was not in Poland appeared and your minister of agriculture resigned himself because you did not carry out your actions, which you promised yourself. [[But yours didn't do anything either...]] Our agricultural minister, it is worth noting that this very difficult disease has been reduced for the first time. [[214.]] [[Calm down.]] Have you noticed this? In the fall of last year, in the winter of this year, in the spring of this year. I don't want to announce great successes yet, but just stopping, Minister, is a great success for you, is a great success for your team. Thank you very much for it, because the actions that were proposed, which were and are applied, for example. by Denmark, which builds a dam across the whole width of the German border, Luxembourg separates itself from Belgium... The use of bioinsurance in Poland is now used in a very similar methodology in Western European countries. [[There's no regulation.]] [[With your own money.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u453	Mr Ajchler, I would like to point out to you that you are interfering with the proceedings of the Sejm.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u454	All this makes us on the right track so that to a lesser extent this epidemic is felt and these achievements are already noticed. Thank you very much for this, Minister. I was wondering if you would have enough - it's hard to call it otherwise than hypocrisy - hypocrisy to mention the issue of drought, but you said it in a few of your speeches, so we must once again quote the hardest possible data. In 2008, the Civic Platform and PSL rule. How many farms are affected by drought then? 261,000. [[It's a good thing it's so little.]] Exactly the same thing now: two hundred and sixty. a few thousand in 2018 [[How many acres?]] Ladies and gentlemen, how much did the Civic Platform and PSL allocate to compensation? 167 million. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[They've worked so hard.]] So not only in 2015 did they grant aid five times lower than the Government of Law and Justice, but in 2008 you granted aid several times lower than the Government... [[How many acres?]] And you have the audacity to talk about drought?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u455	Mrs Niedziela, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you are interfering with the proceedings of the Sejm.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u456	This is really far-reaching hypocrisy, falsehood, and it's hard to comment otherwise. Dear farmers, compare these figures, how many farms in 2008, 2015, 2018... Our assistance - 2200 million, the Civic Platform and PSL in 2015 - 450 million and in 2008 - 167 million. [[How about 2005 data?]] I think the numbers speak for themselves. [[Applause]] Another topic - I was wondering if you were going to talk about it - is beef. Well, you have raised this issue and when the dust has gone down, let us say a few words of truth. We're talking about one single slaughterhouse. Enough of that, the meat was subsequently followed by the veterinary services by a very thorough microbiological examination. All slaughterhouses have been examined, so our beef is today the best beef tested throughout the European Union. Our beef is of course also the tastiest in the European Union. [[Applause]] [[Enjoy your meal.]] And I would like in this context, because many words have already been said here... [[We eat 2 kg per capita.]] ...call a slightly different line. Well, there's one thing I'm very concerned about. What do you think the opposition would do in Italy, Spain, France? Mr Sachajko nods his head, I think he already knows what I want to say. Well, the opposition in those countries would fight side by side with the government... [[And he fights.]] ...so as not to restrict the export of beef. [[Yes, sir.]] Because you know very well, ladies and gentlemen, that it is very easy to lose foreign markets, whereas it is very difficult to rebuild them, to recover them. We, through the work of Minister Ardanowski, have led to the fact that in the difficult situation in which we were found as a result of irregularities in one single slaughterhouse, we have sent all the samples, of course, by granting all the control rights. And we already have positive signals from the European Commission today. We know that we will rebuild this market for tasty Polish beef, but we can really say that how the opposition from the European Coalition behaved then... [[Shame.]] ...is against the interests of Polish farmers... [[Voice from the room: scandal.]] ...against the interests of Polish beef producers. [[Scandal and disgrace.]] We really should be defending Polish bets by now, not writing what you wrote in the application. [[We're the ones defending.]] Mr Zbigniew Dolata rightly noted this in his intervention. Even in your application you wrote that specialists have no delusions, the scale of illegal slaughter is greater than the reporters have revealed, right? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Bastard.]] Where did you guys come from? Did you know? It just turned out it wasn't bigger and it wasn't. [[Check the portals.]] And by your motion, you're suggesting... [[Voice from the O.R.: The Vulnerables.]] ...that Polish beef should not be exported. [[You're lying.]] Dear farmers, the European Coalition thus makes it difficult for us to get out of this difficult situation. [[You're lying.]] Luckily, I have some good news. We are already coming out of this situation, the price of beef has already returned to the previous level, the markets are being recovered. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Yeah, yeah, the world economy is a tough business game and you need to know how to... [[Keep it.]] ...you can find it. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! The issue of direct payments is a very important topic for Polish farmers. And I want to give all Polish farmers very good news. We are today, like everyone who is interested in EU issues, in the final phase of the previous EU perspective. We are in the final stage of negotiations of a new EU perspective and we will certainly guarantee in these negotiations that subsidies to Polish farmers will be higher than those negotiated by the European Coalition, the PSL and the Civic Platform. [[Applause]] [[Congratulations.]] This is also, in addition to the work of Minister Kwieciński and the team, a very professional job and the merit of Minister Ardanowski. [[Prime Minister, how much higher?]] I would now like to talk about another matter, namely the agricultural retail trade. There were words here from the opposition, which minimized its market impact. [[Data.]] Well, I talk very often in various rural areas with farmers and I will tell you that this is the law that restored Polish farmers' faith that the government is trying and will try to shorten this road, as someone here said, from producer to table to consumer. [[From field to table.]] And I'm sure we'll continue on this road because it eliminates intermediaries and increases farmers' incomes. Today farmers can sell up to 40 000 products in the framework of agricultural retail trade. zł without tax. How were the liberals of the European Coalition? As it was in the days of the liberals of PSL... [[Who introduced this recipe?]] ...the Liberals of the European Coalition? Well, ladies and gentlemen, farmers have been punished... [[What are you saying?]] ...a fine for selling outside the place of manufacture. [[Voice from the hall: Disgrace.]] [[What are you saying? Up to $20,000. It was free.]] [[That's what happened.]] Please note that we are very successful in selling agricultural and agri-food products across the markets. Here the number is very heavily defended by Minister Ardanowski, because sales in 2018 amounted to almost EUR 30 billion. It's a record number... [[And the balance sheet?]] ...and an increase of 25% since 2015. [[Applause]] [[Balance, Prime Minister, balance sheet.]] EUR 10 billion on the plus side compared to imports, i.e. a very positive balance sheet. [[With a downward trend.]] It is a bit - I do not want to repeat, so I will shorten - as Minister Ardanowski said: just ask. Because here you asked me where these farm counselors were, agricultural advisors in all these commercial offices around the world. Ladies and gentlemen, I can answer: there are e.g. Abu Dhabi, Berlin, Beijing, Algiers and dozens of other places. [[How much do we export there?]] They are in very many places, i.e. in all our potentially key markets, Mr Ardanowski has already been able to employ agricultural advisers in a professional way. [[We import more from China than we export there.]] They're already helping our exporters export to markets all over the world, to forward markets. [[Applause]] The Minister is targeting new and dynamically growing markets in the Gulf countries, Asia, China. I can also say that we thank the Minister for having also succeeded in restoring the huge Chinese market to our poultry. [[That's a negative balance sheet.]] In a word: we want to export Polish agricultural products more and more, and the European Coalition with PSL, with the Civic Platform, wants to import the customary revolution. I'm afraid so. [[Applause]] [[You don't eat that.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, this request of yours for the cancellation of Minister Ardanowski, combined with your achievements in these matters which I have spoken about, and in others it resembles an old Polish adage: a cow that roars a lot... [[First money gets paid.]] ...not a lot of milk gives. Enough with the yelling and get to work. I also want to mention one more very important thing. During the reign of the Platform and PSL there was a collapse of the Polish village. I'm going to illustrate this collapse with a few numbers. Perhaps to a lesser extent, although to some extent also, it is related to the work of Minister Ardanowski, Minister of Agriculture as such, but it must be recalled, because the debate on agricultural matters is also a debate about the Polish village. This is what you have allowed, in fact, to wind up the communal Poland, the district Poland. It was you who closed several hundred Polish schools, especially in rural areas. You've locked down over 400 police stations. This is also the taking of the presence of the state in rural areas, in communal and district areas. [[And then there's the mail.]] You shut down post offices, you rolled hundreds of miles of bus connections. This also concerned the Polish village. You also rolled up the railroad connections. [[That's why farmers thank you.]] Unfortunately, because of your politics, buses are getting less frequent today. And we're rebuilding it all. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This programme, this part of our five, which also concerns farmers, concerns the Polish countryside, is a proposal for farmers, which will allow them to actually compete, allow them to function, produce on a much more equal basis, such as in other parts of the country. It's a lot easier to do things in town than in the country. Farmers have to be helped. Don't take away their schools and their post offices. [[But nobody takes anything from them.]] You took that away from them. I'm gonna talk a little bit about this morning's debate about America+. From this part of the room there was a round of applause from PSL when Mr Petru talked about voting against Emeritura+. And you're also attacking these projects. Your first-place candidate is talking about these projects: scraps. [[We're talking about agriculture, Prime Minister.]] Why am I bringing this up? Because we, yes, make big transfers for the Polish village. That's the truth. We do what mature countries do, mature countries of the European Union. You Neo-Libertarians are ashamed of that word. You criticized the word "transfer" in this morning's debate, and I can say: this new five is a good five for the Polish village, because it is a new transfer for the Polish village, also for Polish farmers, in the amount of about PLN 15 billion. [[Applause]] So the data you were talking about today, earlier, that in your time more was spent on the Polish village, is a complete misunderstanding. Through 500+, through all our development programs, we make a great transfer, because the Polish village must develop on principles of fairness, dignity and equality. And that's what we do. [[Applause]] [[And the farmers thank you.]] These five are the real five for the village. He's a show for five, and your show is a show for two on rails. No, not on the rails, 'cause you guys were rolling those rails, actually. [[Applause]] [[And where's $1,000? For 1 ha?]] Ladies and gentlemen! We also appreciate the Minister's activities in the field of promotion of Polish culture, Polish agriculture. Circles of rural hostesses, all that involves cultivating Polish culture, Polish traditions, also culinary and all others. [[Thank you, Mrs Możanowska.]] We have made this change in the case of rural hostess circles. This is also the great credit of Minister Ardanowski. Thank you, Minister. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! To conclude, I would like to say that a few days ago, one of the tabloids discovered that the Minister himself was fixing the fence. That's what our ministers are. [[And why was the fence broken?]] They work hard under different circumstances, they don't defend themselves, they're not afraid of work, they're not afraid of effort. [[And they call farmers intellectual emptiness.]] Every moment they spend on useful work. Ministers such as Minister Ardanowski really should be commended, especially for his speech, which he gave now, 15 minutes ago, full of modesty and humility... [[Where's the humility?]] ...at the same time showing how much more things are to be done. Yes, for the Polish countryside and for Polish agriculture there is still much to be done. We listen to the voice of all those who also have their ideas, who are proposing to us to implement these ideas. I can promise one thing: not only do we want to, but we will also support Polish agriculture. Indeed, Polish agriculture must be, increasingly becoming the foundation of a healthy Polish economy. [[Applause]] [[And modern.]] Polish agriculture is becoming more and more modern. This is, among others, the case. Mr. Ardanowski's enormous credit. Thank you very much, Minister. Long live the Polish village! Long live the Polish farmers! Thank you very much. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] [[Thank you. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u457	Thank you, Prime Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: Report from the Rules of Procedure Committee on Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity on the application of the Private Prosecutor of Kinga Gajewska of 4 September 2018 to the Sejm to be held liable by Iwona Arent (Print No 3280). I ask Mr Vladimir Bernacki to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u458	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It has been my honour to present a report to the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee on the application of the Private Prosecutor Kinga Gajewska of 4 September 2018 to allow the Sejm to be held liable by Iwona Arent, print No 3280. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Marshal of the Sejm VIII term of office pursuant to Article. 7c paragraph. 1 and paragraph 1. 1b of the Act of 9 May 1996 on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and the Senator addressed on 22 October 2018 the above request to the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee for consideration. The Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs Committee, having considered this request at its meeting on 13 March 2019 pursuant to Article 13 of the Rules of Procedure. 7c paragraph. The 5th Act on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and the Senator proposes to reject the application of the Private Prosecutor of Kinga Gajewska of 4 September 2018 for consent to the criminal liability of Iwona Arent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u459	Thank you very much. Let me remind you that the Sejm according to the article. Article 133 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall examine the committee's report by listening only to the rapporteur. The Member concerned shall also have the right to speak. This report shall not be discussed. I do not see Mrs Arent, so we will proceed to the vote on this issue in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on commemorating the memory of Józef Mehoffer on the 150th anniversary of his birth (prints no. 3319 and 3336). I ask Mrs Elżbieta Raven to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u460	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I submit a report to the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution on commemorating the 150th anniversary of the birth of Józef Mehoffer. The Commission, after first reading and considering this draft resolution at its meeting on 2 April 2019, invites the High Sejm to adopt the draft as follows: The resolution of the Polish Sejm on commemorating the memory of Józef Mehoffer on the 150th anniversary of his birth. On March 19, 2019 the 150th anniversary of the birth of Józef Mehoffer - one of the most outstanding representatives of the art of Young Poland, painter, graphic artist, cartoonist, designer of stained glass and interiors, stage designer and educator. The artist was born in a socialized Austrian family. He studied painting at the Krakow School of Fine Arts and at the Vienna and Paris Academys. He was a friend of Stanisław Wyspiański, with whom during his studies he performed polychromy under the direction of Jan Matejka in the church of Mariacki. In Mehoffer's works, stained glass windows and wall polychromes take a prominent place and are among the greatest achievements of decorative art in Poland. The artist is the author of vault decorations and polychromes and stained glass in Wawel Cathedral. His works are decorations in the Cathedral of St. Jana in Lviv, in the cathedral in Włocławek and in the church in Turku. The international fame was given to Józef Mehoffer first place in the competition for the design of stained glass windows designed to decorate the Gothic collegiate of St. Santa in Fryburg. One of the most famous canvases in his legacy, i.e. the mysterious symbolism of 'Weird garden', has won many awards in Poland and abroad. Józef Mehoffer was a professor of the Academy of Fine Arts in Krakow and twice served as the rector of this university. He co-founded the Society of Polish Artists. He was one of the artistic associations of Vienna, Paris and Brussels. For their creative activities Józef Mehoffer received many awards, including in 1937 he was awarded the Commander's Cross with the Star of the Order of the Rebirth of Poland 'for outstanding merits in the field of Polish art and propaganda abroad'. In 1986 the artist's house on Krupnicza Street in Krakow was opened to the public as a branch of the Kraków National Museum. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland honors the memory of Józef Mehoffer and praises the artist's creative achievements. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u461	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Barbara Bubula, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u462	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to express my joy at the creation of a draft resolution to pay tribute to a great artist who is particularly related to Cracow, or Józef Mehoffer. This versatile creator has become famous not only as a painter and graphic designer and as a designer fascinatingly beautiful stained glass and polychrome period of the Young Poland period, but also worth mentioning, as an artist still seeking new forms of expression throughout the interwar period. His outstanding sensitivity to the depth of religious symbolism deserves special emphasis. This can be appreciated by the inhabitants of Krakow and tourists, stopping for a moment in the Chapel of the Passion of the Lord in the Franciscans, where it still surprises with the freshness and embodiment of the beauty of shapes and colors created there by Mehoffer the way of the cross. They know the religious works of this artist by the Gothic collegiates of St. Santa Claus in Fryburg, stunned by the stained glass of the Polish creator, as Mrs Elżbieta Kruk has already said. They also know him visiting the Lviv Armenian Cathedral, where Mehoffer designed polychromes. They know him praying in the Latin cathedral also in Lviv, which he decorated with stained glass. Mehoffer also noted his presence in Turko, Żyrardów and, of course, in various other places in Cracow, including Wawel. It is in my town, in Cracow, as Mrs Elżbieta Kruk mentioned, that a whole branch of the National Museum was created, located in a tenement building on the street. Krupniczy. And may I encourage not only your fellow Members but also all Poles to visit the former capital during their stay. also a small museum, not more than 10 minutes on foot from the market, with a beautiful garden recreated according to the design of Józef Mehoffer himself. There, they will learn how beautiful portraits and symbolic landscapes she painted the hand of this artist, a painter of perfection, who likes to surprise and wonder about the mystery tearing away from the visible nature. In addition to the already mentioned strange garden, I will recall such images as the May sun, the portrait of the artist's wife with Pegasus, the red umbrella, or the painting entitled "Before the House," showing an unusual garden designed by the artist at home in Jankówka. Józef Mehoffer - I'm finished - co-created the size of Polish art at the turn of the 19th and 20th centuries and the 20th anniversary of the interwar period. He gave his masterpieces international fame, he made, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that Polish sacral and secular interiors flashed with colors and impressed with monumental shapes. He's made national heritage rich. Today, it is impossible to imagine Polish art without the contribution given by Józef Mehoffer. It's a good thing the Sejm of the Republic remembers him. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u463	Thank you. I ask the floor of Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, PSL - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u464	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Speaking on behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I would like to say that we will support this request to celebrate the 150th anniversary of Józef Mehoffer's birth. Well, he was born on March 19, 150 years ago, but it is a pity that this was omitted in this resolution from the fact that it happened in the Podkarpacie Mountains. [[Bravo, Subcarpathian!]] Bravo, Subcarpathian! Thank you, honourable Members. Józef Mehoffer was born in Ropczyce in Podkarpacie. And it is at the request of the current mayor, Bolesław Bujak, that we are considering this resolution today. It is in Ropczyce that there are many souvenirs and it is with great piety that you approach this wonderful artist. There is Mehoffer Street, the school has many souvenirs, many memorable albums have been released, and recently even a monument has been erected on the market in Ropczyce, which honors the artist and reminds him of his merits. Therefore, on behalf of the Mayor of the City of Ropczyce, I would like to thank the High House, the Committee on Culture and Media, for having respected Mr Bolesław Bujak's request today to thank all of you for having responded positively to this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u465	Thank you. [[Applause]] We have concluded our speeches on behalf of clubs and circles. Nobody signed up to ask questions. So I'm closing the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u466	This year marks the 150th anniversary of the birth of the outstanding Polish artist Józef Mehoffer, one of the most outstanding representatives of the art of Young Poland. He was a student of Jan Matejka and a peer of Stanisław Wyspiański. We know him as a painter, graphic artist, artist, but also a designer of stained glass, furniture, interiors, fabrics or theatre scenery. In his work he used various artistic techniques, thus gaining rich, deep expression of artistic expression. Józef Mehoffer worked on artistic graphics, applied acidorite, aquatint, performed autolithography and utility graphics. He decorated the covers of the books by designing eclipses, initials, ornaments, vignettes, and bordiurs. That's why he got the title of Art Nouveau Decoration Master. The artist also designed trademarks, banknotes, stock sheets and even posters. He was also a portraitist who paid particular attention to the dress of his models. The collection of works by the Polish painter contains nine thematic cycles devoted to ballet. In his work in the area of sacral art he dealt with the polychromy of the Wawel vault and the Armenian Cathedral in Lviv. An important work of the artist is stained glass and polychrome in the Church of the Sacred Heart of Jesus in Turk. Józef Mehoffer also designed the windows of the Latin Cathedral in Lviv, the Church of Our Lady of Comfort in Żyrardów or the Cathedral of St. Santa Claus in Fryburg, Switzerland. The period of the Young Poland is a time of great symbolism, in which the artist created his greatest or most famous painting works: "Pegaz imprisoned," "Portrait of his wife against the background of the pegaza," "Dream Beauty," "Dreamy Garden," "May Sun," "Red Umbrella." The 20th interwar anniversary is a change of color and painting technique and other important works, including landscapes. For their creative activities Józef Mehoffer received various distinctions, among others. The Commander's Cross of the Order of the Rebirth of Poland (1923), the Golden Wawrzyn Academic Awarded by the Polish Academy of Literature (1935), as well as the Commander's Cross with the Star of the Order of Rebirth of Poland (1937). Józef Mehoffer was a professor at the Academy of Fine Arts in Cracow and twice held the dignity of the rector of this university. He co-founded the Polish Artists' Society. The beginning of World War II meant for Mehoffer to stay in a camp in Czechoslovakia, where he was deported from Lviv. Due to the diplomatic intervention of the Vatican State and the Italian Government, he was able to return home. During the occupation at Mehoffer's house, music meetings were held, in which they participated, among others. Zygmunt Digat or Egon Petri. Józef Mehoffer died on July 8, 1946 in Wadowice. Today in the Polish Seym we have the opportunity to celebrate the memory of a great artist whose works delight with the timbre, the brightness of the sun and the delicateness of the drawing.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u467	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position on the committee's report on the draft resolution on the commemoration of Józef Mehoffer on the 150th anniversary of his birth, prints no. 3319 and 3336. Józef Mehoffer - painter, graphic artist, cartoonist, interior designer and theatre designer, one of the most outstanding representatives of the art of Young Poland, was born on 19 March 1869 in Ropczyce, in a popular Austrian family. He studied painting at the Krakow School of Fine Arts, as well as at the dormitories in Vienna and Paris. He was friends with Stanisław Wyspiański, with whom during his studies under the supervision of Jan Matejka he made polychromes in the church of Mariacki. Mehoffer's stained glass windows and wall polychromes are among the most outstanding achievements of decorative art in Poland. He is the author of stained glass windows on Wawel, decorations in the Cathedral of St. Jana in Lviv, in the cathedral in Włocławek and in the church in Turku. The stained glass windows decorated with Gothic collegiate St. Nicholas in Friburg brought international fame to Józef Mehoffer. The artist as a professor of the Academy of Fine Arts in Krakow twice served as the rector of this university. Mehoffer co-founded the Polish Artists' Society. He was also one of the artistic associations of Vienna, Paris and Brussels. In 1986, the artist's house on the street opened for visitors. Krupnicza in Kraków as a branch of the Kraków National Museum. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland honors the memory of Józef Mehoffer and praises the artist's creative achievements. The Modern Posel Club will vote in favour of the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u468	We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on commemorating the 150th anniversary of Stanisław Wojciechowski's birth (prints no. 3321 and 3339). I ask Mrs Joanna Lichocka to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u469	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Culture and Media about the draft resolution on commemorating the 150th anniversary of Stanisław Wojciechowski's birth. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. Paragraph 37 of the Act. 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent the above draft resolution to the Committee on Culture and Media for first reading on 27 March 2019. The Committee on Culture and Media, after first reading and considering this draft resolution at its meeting on 2 April 2019, requests the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft resolution. Let me read it. The resolution of the Polish Sejm on commemorating Stanisław Wojciechowski on the 150th anniversary of his birth. On March 15, 1869, Stanisław Wojciechowski was born in Kalisz - an outstanding co-worker, scholar and statesman, as well as the second President of the Republic of Poland. He started his independence activity in the Polish Youth Union 'Zet'. He continued it in the Polish Socialist Party, where with Józef Piłsudski, among others. he edited the magazine "Worker" and on emigration in the Foreign Union of Polish Socialists. He was an active activist of the cooperative movement, editor of the weekly 'Społem', as well as organizer of the first convention of organizing the cooperative movement of consumers. After Poland regained its independence, from January 16, 1919 to June 9, 1920 he was Minister of Internal Affairs in the Governments of Ignacy Paderewski and Leopold Skulski. In 1921 he joined the Polish People's Party 'Piast'. After the tragic death of President Gabriel Narutowicz, the National Assembly elected Stanisław Wojciechowski as President of the Republic of Poland on 20 December 1922. During his duties as President, thanks to exceptional features of character, he eased tensions and disputes and sought compromises, putting the state's interests ahead of ad hoc party interests. In general opinion, he was an extremely righteous and honest man. During the May coup in 1926, Stanisław Wojciechowski stood by the government and then decided to resign from the President's office. After his withdrawal from political life, he devoted himself to cooperative activities. He was also a professor of the General School of Rural and Higher School of Commerce and headed the Cooperative Research Institute. During that time he wrote many significant books and publications on cooperative topics. He spent the period of the Second World War in Warsaw. He died in 1953 and was buried in a family tomb at the Powęzkowski Cemetery. Stanisław Wojciechowski deserves Poland well. On behalf of the committee, I ask the High Sejm to adopt this resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u470	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Piotr Babinetz, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u471	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the parliamentary draft resolution on commemorating Stanisław Wojciechowski on the 150th anniversary of his birth. Stanisław Wojciechowski coat of arms Nałęcz was born in 1869. He was the son of the January insurgent. During his studies he began his independence activity in the anti-Russian conspiracy. He was involved in the work of the Polish Youth Association Zet and later of the Polish Socialist Party, where he and Józef Piłsudski edited the newspaper "Worker." He was also a courier and emissary. Several times imprisoned by the Russians, he was active in emigration in the Foreign Union of Polish Socialists. He was expelled from France as a particularly dangerous political activist. In 1905, when the anti-Independence faction of the young people was given the advantage in PPS, he withdrew from political work. He then became involved in cooperative activities, among others. editing the magazine "Company." He particularly focused on food cooperatives. During World War I he worked in the Central Civic Committee and later in the National Committee of Poland. He advocated cooperation with Western countries and Russia, until the Bolshevik coup, and reconciliation between national democrats and socialists. After regaining his independence, he was Minister of Home Affairs from 1919 to 1920. He took up, among others. decision to delegate the Communist Workers' Party of Poland as Soviet agents. He then started lectures on cooperativeness at the University of Commerce. He was active in the Polish People's Party and without success ran for president of the Republic of Poland, elected by the National Assembly, although he was favored by Marshal Józef Piłsudski. After the assassination of President Gabriel Narutowicz, he was re-registered as a candidate for President of the Republic of Poland. He was elected, this time in the first round, to this honorable office. During his presidency, Stanisław Wojciechowski tried in particular to support Władysław Grabski's government and its reforms. At the same time, it shaped the constitutional custom by introducing a constructive vote of distrust - entrusting the formation of a new government to the leader of the largest group which disproves the previous government. He also accepted, contrary to the March Constitution, the custom that the Sejm sits permanently, not in the session system. He never closed a session of the Sejm in spite of such a constitutional order. On 12 May 1926, in the face of the military demonstration, Marshal Józef Piłsudski met him on the bridge of Prince Poniatowski and declared, according to him, the defence of the honour of the Polish Army, the faithfulness of the constitution and the defence of the government of Vincent Witos. The marshal was hoping for cooperation and agreement with the president, but that didn't happen. On 14 May, in view of the progress of the troops of Piłsudski's faithful, he resigned from the office, not wanting a dangerous civil war for Poland's independence. In the following years he was again involved in cooperative activities and lectures at Warsaw universities. During World War II, when the Germans arrested his son for defending Jewish lawyers and offered Wojciechowski his release in exchange for signing a statement about the alleged illegalness of the Polish government in exile, he strongly refused and his son died shortly in the German camp in Auschwitz. After the war Wojciechowski refused any collaboration with the communist invader. He died in 1953. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Stanisław Wojciechowski was a man of great integrity and integrity, always putting the good and independence of Poland above all else. The Law and Justice Club will vote for a resolution to pay tribute to President Wojciechowski. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u472	Thank you. I ask the floor of Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, PSL - Union of European Democrats. [[So soon?]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u473	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We have another birthday anniversary, this time Stanisław Wojciechowski - an outstanding man, a patriot, a statesman, a president. I'm not going to quote the whole story here because it's quite extensive. She's pretty curious. As far as President Stanisław Wojciechowski is concerned, the President is a part of his life story, which was very gloriously inscribed on the pages of our history. It was Stanisław Wojciechowski who was the guardian of the constitutional order of the state, when in 1926 there was a bombing of May, a bloody event in which about 400 people died. President Wojciechowski had powers and powers, but seeing what was happening in the country, he resigned from his position so that there would be no further bloodshed and civil war in the country because that was the threat. Therefore, President Wojciechowski's worthy attitude deserves to be clearly exposed in this resolution. On behalf of the Polish People's Party, I would like to say that we support this resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u474	Thank you. We have concluded our speeches on behalf of clubs and circles. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska joined the question. You're welcome, my fellow Member. Time minus 1 minute, and basically half a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u475	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Grzegorz Furgo made a statement on behalf of the Civic Platform-Citizen's Coalition Club concerning a resolution on the 150th anniversary of Józef Mehoffer's birth. We support this resolution concerning one of the most expressive representatives of Young Poland. Mrs Henczyca made a statement on the birth of Stanisław Wojciechowski - the second President of the Republic of Poland and a cooperative activist. As a cooperative activist in a special way, Stanisław Wojciechowski is close... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[The Vice Marshal shuts down the microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u476	Thank you, Member. The time for a statement will be soon, after this point. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u477	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Club, I would like to present a position on the resolution commemorating the 150th anniversary of Stanisław Wojciechowski's birth. The second President of the Republic of Poland Stanisław Wojciechowski was born on 15 March 1869. He was an outstanding collaborator, scholar, and statesman. He started public activity in the Workers' Union, then worked in the Polish Socialist Party and in emigration, in the Foreign Union of Polish Socialists. After his return to the country he was an active cooperative movement activist, editor of the weekly "Company," organizer of the first convention of organizing the cooperative movement of consumers. After Poland regained its independence, from 16 January 1919 to 9 June 1920 he was Minister of Interior in the Governments of Ignacy Paderewski and Leopold Skulski. In 1921 he joined the Polish People's Party. After the tragic death of President Gabriel Narutowicz, the National Assembly elected Stanisław Wojciechowski as President of the Republic of Poland on 22 December 1922. He was extremely righteous and honest. During the May coup in 1926, President Stanisław Wojciechowski stood up for the constitutional order of the state and decided to resign in the face of the situation that prevented him from exercising his office. After retreating from political life, he devoted himself to cooperative activities in the Community. He was also a professor of SGGW and WSH and headed the Cooperative Scientific Institute. During that time he wrote many significant books and publications on cooperative topics. Stanisław Wojciechowski deserves Poland well. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland expresses its appreciation for its professional and political achievements and attitudes at landmark moments. Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition is in favour of a resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u478	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position on the committee's report on the parliamentary draft resolution on commemorating the 150th anniversary of Stanisław Wojciechowski's birth, prints 3321 and 3339. Stanisław Wojciechowski, outstanding scientist and co-worker and second president of the Republic of Poland, was born on 15 March 1869 in Kalisz. He started his independence activity in the Polish Youth Union He continued it in the Polish Socialist Party and in emigration - in the Foreign Union of Polish Socialists. After Poland regained independence, he served as Minister of Home Affairs in Ignacy Paderewski's and Leopold Skulski's governments. After the tragic death of President Gabriel Narutowicz on 20 December 1922, the National Assembly elected Stanisław Wojciechowski as President of the Republic of Poland. During his presidency, Stanisław Wojciechowski eased conflicts and sought compromises, putting the good of the state above all else. During the May coup in 1926, defending democracy to the very end, he took his stand on the government's side and then resigned from the President's office. After his political career, he devoted himself to cooperative activities. As Professor of the General School of Rural Farms and Higher School of Commerce, he wrote many significant books on cooperative subjects. Stanisław Wojciechowski died in 1953 in Gołąbki. In recognition of the merits of Stanisław Wojciechowski, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland commemorates him on the 150th anniversary of his birth. The Modern Parliamentary Club will vote in favour of the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u479	We will proceed to the vote on this motion for a resolution in the voting block. This concludes the discussion of the agenda items scheduled for 3 April this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. A list of MPs... You're welcome, sir. Sir, do you want to sign up? You're welcome. I'm closing the list. I ask Mr Jack Kurzepa, Law and Justice, to speak in order to make a statement. There isn't. Mr Tadeusz Wozniak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u480	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Due to disturbing signals coming from Warsaw City Hall, as well as other cities and LGBT-related and supportive environments, I would like to say that there is a great threat to the family, marriage and children. Today a joint meeting of the Parliamentary Group for Catholic Social Science, Parliamentary Team of Members and Sympathists of the Light-Life Movement, Catholic Action and the Association of Catholic Families and the Polish Committee on Family Rights in Warsaw took place. We have adopted a common position, the motto of the future of humanity goes through the family. These are the words of St. John Paul II. The 28th anniversary of the solemn promotion of the Charter of Family Rights, which took place on 3 April 1991 at the Institute of Studies on the Family in Łomianki near Warsaw, recalls the rich teaching of St. John Paul II dedicated to marriage and family. Thinking with concern for the family, John Paul II, in the apostolic apostolic apostolic ministry, about the tasks of the Christian family in the modern world - Familiaris Consortio, wrote: It is also the social task of the family to express an opinion in the form of political intervention that families should seek first to ensure that the laws and institutions of the state do not only violate the rights and obligations of the family, but that they support and defend them positively. In this sense, families should become more aware of their own role as co-founders of the so-called. family policy and take responsibility for the change of society. Otherwise, they will be the first to fall victim to the evil that they have looked at indifferently. It is therefore the responsibility of families themselves to commit strongly to social life and to defend their own sovereignty and integrity, which define the rights of the family enshrined in the Charter of Family Rights. It is the responsibility of the state and local authorities to recognise the value of a family based on a lasting marriage between men and women. In view of the strenuous attempts made by certain political forces and destructive social groups to introduce child and youth sexualisation programmes in school classes and their free demoralisation in public space, we recall the article. 5 Charters of Family Rights: Parents, because they gave life to their children, have the primary, inalienable right and priority to raise their offspring and must therefore be regarded as the first and principal educators of their children. We stress that respect for parents' rights and obligations is one of the fundamental values of European culture and is also a respect for democracy, which is based on the good of family and marriage. Recent initiatives to deprive parents of their children's rights in line with their own beliefs constitute a serious violation of social order and democratic society and do not serve the future of children themselves, family, Poland or Europe. We therefore reiterate the request that society as a whole make efforts to restore respect for the family and its rights. We appeal to all authorities and people of good will to take immediate action that will permanently secure a marriage that is a union between men and women, a family based on marriage, and the rights of parents as first and foremost educators of children. We call on Poles and Poles, who are at the heart of the good of the family, the good of Poland and the good of Europe, to actively oppose all attempts to attack the family and children, and to vote in elections only on those political forces and individuals who guarantee actions for the good of the family and children, and thus for the good of our civilisation. They signed Tadeusz Wozniak - President of the Parliamentary Group for Catholic Social Science and President of the Polish Family Rights Committee and Robert Telus - President of the Parliamentary Group of Members and Sympathists of the Light-Life Movement, Catholic Action and the Association of Catholic Families. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u481	Thank you. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, PO-KO, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u482	As a member of the Civic Platform - the Civic Coalition, I would like to say that everyone wants to live and breathe fresh air both in Rzeszow, Tarnobrzeg, Przemyśl, Krosnie and in other cities of Poland and especially in Mielec. On the issue of clean air in Mielec, I took a number of interventions, e.g. in the Minister of the Environment through interpellations to which the answers do not satisfy me or the inhabitants of Mielec. I do not know whether this case is dealt with by the Poręba MEP, who represents the Podkarpata in the European Parliament. I also intervened with the Marshal of the Voivodship and there are no visible actions of the Marshal. It's time to take care of the mincing business, the mincings are waiting for it. It is time to talk in the European Union about measures for entrepreneurs to modernise their workplaces, to invest in clean air, and to ensure that national programmes include resources when negotiating the EU Clean Air Regulation so that they can be allocated to the decommissioning of cinderellas and to negotiate funds for local authorities to build an integrated heating network in the so-called. urban functional areas. Now is the time to talk in Brussels, in the European Commission and in the European Parliament. I run for elections to the European Parliament to take care of the most important things for us: clean air in Mielec, Rzeszów, Przemyśl, in every place in Poland, so that we do not be the ungrateful leaders of the ranking of countries with the highest air pollution. Mielczeń, but also Poles and Poles need to know that they will breathe fresh air. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u483	Please take the floor of Mr Piotr Müller, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u484	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I regret to inform you that Jan Didak, the leading Polish fighter, Olympic medalist and multi-time Polish boxing champion, died on 27 March at the age of only 51. In 1988, at the Seoul Olympics, he won a bronze medal in semi-medium weight. He also competed in the European Championships in Gothenburg in 1991, where he won a bronze medal, and in the 1991 Sydney World Championships. In the Polish Championships he reached three times for the title of Polish Champion: in 1987, in 1990 and in 1991, while in 1988 he was Deputy Country Champion. At the turn of the 80s and 90s he was one of the greatest talents of Polish boxing, beside Andrzej Golota and Dariusz Michalczewski. Between 1988 and 1991 the four-time winner of the boxing classification for the best Polish fighter, the two-time winner of the Golden Gloves. In the colours of Black Słupsk the gold medalist of the Polish team championships in 1990 and eight times representative of the country in interstate matches. According to official statistics he scored as many as 171 fights, 159 wins, 2 draws and only 10 loses. He ended his career in 1991 because of a serious hand injury. He was a player of GKS Hawks in 1982 and 1986 and Black Slupsk in 1987 and 1991. In 2005, he coached the Blacks' boxing section. Although he wanted to be a football player, fate directed him to other sports tracks. Born in Czeladź, he was forced to move to the Hawk during martial law. Jan's cousins trained boxing, the future fighter also decided to try, borrowed gloves and went to practice. He loved boxing from the start. The first duel ended with defeat. However, he accepted further challenges from which he came out victorious. He became one of the best technically prepared players in Poland. The first Polish championship won at the age of only 19 years, and after the bronze medal of the Olympics in the intermediate category reached just a year later. He almost didn't go to Seoul at all. There was a long-standing joint injury, but he decided to hide this information from the trainers because he knew he wouldn't have been allowed to start. Despite his injury, he defeated other opponents for points, and he won the medal by fighting with practically one hand. In 1991, during the fourth pilgrimage of the Holy Father John Paul II on behalf of Polish athletes, he welcomed the Holy Father. He continued the way of great sports successes, and subsequent victories confirmed experts and fans in the belief that we have a great talent of the world class in Poland. Bronze at the European Championship in Gothenburg confirmed the form of a fistfighter. The next Olympic Games were to take place next year. Jan Dydak was one of the favorites, but he decided to end his career just because of a hand injury. After the gloves were suspended, he had to go to Germany. After returning fortunately, he had the opportunity to train the young people of Black Slupsk. Coach Kazimierz Adach, also Olympic medalist, and club colleagues Dariusz Michalczewski, Jacek Gminski and Cezary Banasiak remember him as a great athlete and an even bigger friend. He was very involved in promoting the Olympic idea, visiting schools, attending meetings with children and young people. He actively participated in youth classes and training, supporting new talents. For the rest of his life he was involved in cooperation with the Polish Olympic Committee. Unfortunately, he's been struggling with cancer for a long time. 27 March Słupsk was grieved, the city said goodbye to an outstanding athlete and a great, good man. He left his wife Teresa, the children of Magda, Dorota and Sebastian, and the grandchildren of John and Jędrzej. In the memory of loved ones will remain warm, conflictless, optimistic man, always ready to help others. High Izbo! I would like to inform you that I have applied to President Andrzej Duda for the posthumous award of Jan Dydak as the Order of the Rebirth of Poland for outstanding merits for sport. Mr. John, rest in peace. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u485	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Jack Wilk, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u486	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There is a rather strange electoral campaign in progress for the Europarliament, in which there is hardly really any mention of the Europarlament, there is no talk of the European Union, there are issues related precisely to the Brussels Government, but for example. various bizarre programs are proposed, mainly distributions, mainly socialist ones, which are, of course, on credit and are completely detached from reality and have only an effect in the form of buying voters. Therefore, I believe that Poland deserves a real program, a development program, a program that can push Poland forward, a program that can actually change our reality. That is why I have decided to allow myself to propose my own five points, which are indeed a real pro-development programme. The first point is the support of the state, the state administration in a large part or the essential part of state bureaucracy on blockchain technologies. Thanks to these technologies and opportunities, bureaucracy, the number of documents, papers, etc. can be radically reduced. Estonia's example, which introduced this solution, shows that it is possible to save up to 2% on such a system gross domestic product. Under Polish conditions it would be about PLN 40 billion per year. Secondly, the second point - conversion of the 500+ program into a classic free educational voucher. This is particularly important at the moment when teachers protests are underway, when everyone is wondering how to fix Polish education. There is no other way to fix this school than to introduce healthy competition between schools. A classic free education voucher causes that anyone who gets a voucher like this, i.e. anyone who has a child, can choose any school, with any program, with any owner. And under such conditions, everyone can afford a good private school, and thus can compete in the educational services market and raise the level of education, which unfortunately is increasingly catastrophic due to the fact that we still have post-peerel order, post-communist order in our schools, e.g. appearing, for example, in keeping a post-communist teacher's card. It is then about introducing a single tax instead of all current state taxes. This tax is VAT and excise duty, because unfortunately we must have this because of our presence in the European Union. It is easy to calculate that if we eliminate all taxes and leave only VAT, then at the appropriate rate of effective revenue to the budget will be identical, and they will actually be higher, because this is how we eliminate the grey zone. Of course, we are talking about maximum simplified VAT with one rate on everything and with many other simplifications. Point 4 - abolition of the payment of contributions to the Social Security Office and the NFZ. Poland's pension system is one big disaster and absurdity in every way and there is no reason to pretend that this system can be maintained, this system simply needs to be destroyed and ultimately built completely different. However, for now, at least in the first step, Poles who know very well that the ZUS will not have any pensions, allow them to simply retire themselves, endure, as in Germany, at least from entrepreneurs, the forced payment of pension contributions, are to leave the same to citizens who are able to take care of themselves well enough and can predict how to retire without help, without the grace of the ZUS, which robs us in a criminal way. And the last point - the introduction of a civil veto, like Switzerland. This is a special referendum in which citizens can reject any law adopted by the Sejm by means of a qualified number. This is a very good solution, because it blocks the extremely harmful and stupid solutions that populist governments adopt, and it is easy to get rid of the law that harms everyone. And so I suggested the so-called. Five Wolf, which is a real reform program that can actually make real changes and improve citizens' lives, not some idiotic programs that are just supposed to rob us and transfer money from one pocket to another, especially before the elections. As the great thinker Alexis de Tocqueville said, democracy will end when governments realize that they can buy citizens with their own money, what is happening right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u487	Please take the floor of Mr Kazimierz Moskal, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u488	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It was with great joy that I accepted the procession of the draft resolution on the commemoration of Józef Mehoffer on the 150th anniversary of his birth. I am delighted that the expectation of the oily environment, but not only, because Kraków, Turkish and many others, has been reflected in the draft resolution. The oily environment is proud that Józef Mehoffer was born there 150 years ago in Ropczyce. This great artist lived in Ropczyce for at least a few years, and then he really did his work in Krakow and abroad. I am delighted that the Sokół Gymnastics Society in Ropczyce, the Law and Justice Club, the Council of the Municipality of Ropczyce, the Old Town of Ropczyce took some local actions and honored the memory of this great artist in Ropczyce and, thanks to their initiative, the club of Law and Justice prepared this resolution. Print no. 3319 - this is a club called Law and Justice. I would like to thank my colleagues at the Law and Justice Club, President of the Law and Justice Club, Elizabeth Raven, on behalf of the oil community, for having been honored and honoured by the High House tomorrow. And I appeal to the High House that this initiative of the Law and Justice Club should be adopted unanimously tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-03-sejm-79-1.u489	Thank you. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. By 4 April 2019 at the latest 9. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 22 min 57]]
