ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u1	Resume session. For technical reasons, I'm extending the recess until 12:15. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 03 to 12 minutes 15]] I'm reopening the session. I ask the senators of the secretaries to take their seats at the president's table. I remind you that the list of speakers will be led by Senator Robert Dowhan. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! On 10 October this year, Stefan Pastuszka, Senator of the 3rd term, died, Deputy Chairman of the Committee on Culture, Media, Physical Education and Sports and the Constitutional Commission of the National Assembly. He was also a member of the Committee on Initiatives and Legislative Work and the Committee on Immigration and Poles abroad. Please rise and celebrate with a minute of silence the senator's memory. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] Give him eternal rest, Lord. And let eternal light shine upon him. May he rest in eternal peace. Amen. Thank you very much. I propose to supplement the agenda by items: second reading of the draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2020 by the Year of Jan Kowalski, print No 1278 and considering this item as a point of the twenty-second agenda; second reading of the draft resolution establishing the year of physics, printing No 1282 The second reading of the draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2020 by the Year of the Battle of Warsaw, the printing of 1312 and the consideration of this item as item for the 40th agenda; the information on the activities of the Social Dialogue Council during the term of office of the President of the Trade Union Forum, the printing of 1314 If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. Please, Senator Klich. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u2	Mr. Marshal, at the meeting of the Convention, I called on the Civic Platform Club to ensure that this meeting was not held at all. However, as it has begun, I would like to ask that your marshal be closed because of the fact that we should not question the parliamentary practice so far, and that the practice so far has said nothing but that neither the Sejm nor the Senate will be held after the elections. However, in these elections Poles made a different political decision than 4 years ago and the state that you are now a majority will be in the Senate of the new term of office in a minority, and therefore no political and legal decisions should be taken before the work of the new parliament starts. I would like to point out that Art. Paragraph 121. 3 of the Constitution states that the Senate's resolution rejecting the bill or amendment proposed in the Senate's resolution shall be deemed to have been adopted if the Sejm does not reject it by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. We have heard that there will be no next session of the Sejm, so if this meeting continues, Mr. Marshal, we would have to assume that all the laws we consider will be adopted without amendments and will not be rejected, that is, the freedom of activity of the Senate will actually be brought to nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u3	Thank you very much. Okay, this is a motion from the senator, a formal motion, so we'll vote him out. He's different from mine. About closing the sitting? Excuse me? About closing the sitting? To close the sitting, yes. This is a formal motion to close the meeting, right? Let's just see if it's a formal conclusion because it's the first time I've heard of it, so I have to check. What's the conclusion? There is no such request to close the sitting. Excuse me? End of session? Well... There's no lockdown. Mr. Senator, please... Which article is it? That's what I'm saying. Art. 48 (1) (a) 8, which refers to the addition or amendment of a draft agenda or agenda. Mr. Senator, would you please refer again to the relevant article? Art. 48, Mr. Marshal, lips. 8. But which... please tell me literally which article is which point and which point. I'll repeat for the third time, Mr. Marshal. Art. 48 (1) (a) 8. Complement or amendment of the draft agenda or agenda. Change of draft agenda. [[Talking in the O.R.]] All of them, right? Okay, we'll take care of it. If that's the case, then we'll read it one at a time. I'm offering a supplement, we're going to read it one by one. Are there any other formal requests? Just so we know. No. Okay, then we'll read, ladies and gentlemen, in turns. Ladies and gentlemen, who is in favour of my request to complete the agenda for the item: the second reading of the draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2020 by Jan Kowalewski, print No. 1278, and considering this item as item of the twenty-second agenda? Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 Senators voted, 56 votes against, 24 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 30]] Who is in favour of introducing a point: the second reading of the draft resolution establishing the year 2020 - the Year of Physics, print No 1282, and considering this item as item twenty-third of the agenda? Press the "za" button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, 58 were in favour, 24 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 31]] Who is in favour of introducing a point: the Act amending the Sports Act, print No. 1317, and considering this item as item of the twenty-fourth agenda? Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 Senators voted, 58 votes against, 22 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 32]] The point has been accepted. Who is in favour of putting the item on the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Road Traffic, print No. 1325, and considering this item as item twenty-five of the agenda? Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 Senators voted, 58 votes against, 23 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 33]] Point adopted, we vote on. Who is in favour of this point: the Law on the amendment of the Law of the Family and Caring Code and some other laws, print No 1315, and considering this item as item of the twenty-sixth agenda? Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 Senators voted, 58 votes against, 24 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 34]] Who is in favour of the introduction of a point: the Law on the Amendment of the Law.Criminal Code and the Law on the Code of Civil Procedure, print No. 1320, and considering this item as item of the twenty-seventh agenda? Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. The votes were 82 senators, 57 votes against, 24 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 35]] Who is in favour of introducing a point: the Act amending the Act on the Polish Academy of Sciences and some other laws, print No. 1321, and considering this item as item twenty-eighth of the agenda? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, 55 votes against, 22 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 36]] Point entered. Who is in favour of the introduction of a point: the law amending the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Act, print No. 1318, and considering this item as item on the 21st of the ninth agenda? Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 58 for, 24 against... Fifty-six for. 56:24:1. [[Voting No 37]] It's in. Who is in favour of introducing a point: the Act amending the Act on Public Offering and the Conditions for Introducing Financial Instruments to Organized Trading, and on Public Companies and Certain Other Acts, Print No. 1319, and considering this item as item of the 30th agenda? Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 Senators voted, 58 votes against, 24 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 38]] Who is in favour of the introduction of a point: the Double Taxation Dispute Resolution Act and the conclusion of previous price agreements, printing No 1326, and considering this item as item 30 of the first agenda? Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 Senators voted... 81 Senators voted, 57 in favour, 23 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 39]] Who is in favour of introducing a point: the Act amending the excise tax Act, print No 1327, and considering this item as item 30 of the second agenda? Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 Senators voted, 58 votes against, 24 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 40]] Who is in favour of introducing a point: the Law amending the Law on the Award of a Specialist in the Fields applicable to health care, print No. 1323, and considering this item as item 30 of the third agenda? Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 Senators voted, 58 votes against, 24 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 41]] Who is in favour of the introduction of a point: the Law on the Amendment of the Law. Education Law, print No. 1322, and considering this item as a point of the thirtieth fourth order of business? Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 57 for, 24 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 42]] Who is in favour of the introduction of a point: the Act amending the Act on the Informationization of Activities of Entities performing public tasks and certain other acts, Senate printing No. 1316, and considering this item as item 30 of the fifth agenda? Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Jesus Christ, I barely made it. Please report the results. 81 Senators voted, 56 votes against, 24 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 43]] Who is in favour of introducing a point: the Law on the amendment of the Industrial Property Law, print No 1332, and considering this item as item of the 30th sixth agenda? Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 57 for, 24 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 44]] Who is in favour of introducing a point: the Law amending the Law on the Prevention of Pollution from Ships and the Law on Maritime Safety, print No. 1324, and considering this item as item of the 30th agenda? I'm asking you to apply... Not yet. Please report the results. 81 Senators voted, 56 votes against, 24 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 45]] Who is in favour of the introduction of a point: the Law on the ratification of the International Convention on Control and Treatment with Boat Ballast Waters and settlements, 2004, drawn up on 13 February 2004 in London, print No 1328, and considering this point as point of the thirtieth eighth? Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 Senators voted: 55 [[Voting No 46]] Who is in favour of introducing a point: the Act on the ratification of the Protocol amending the Convention on the Protection of Persons with regard to the Automatic Processing of Personal Data, drawn up in Strasbourg on 10 October 2018, print No 1029, and considering this item as item on the 39th agenda? Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. Please report the results. The votes were 82 senators, 57 votes against, 23 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 47]] Who is in favour of introducing the Law on the ratification of Convention No 188 on Labour in the Fisheries Sector adopted by the General Conference of the International Labour Organisation in Geneva on 14 June 2007, print No 1330, and considering this item as item of the 40th agenda? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 57 votes against, 22 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 48]] Who is in favour of the introduction of the "Law on the ratification of the Agreement establishing the International Agricultural Development Fund, drawn up in Rome on 13 June 1976, print No 1331, and considering this item as point 40 of the first agenda? Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. The votes were 82 senators, 57 votes against, 24 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 49]] Who is in favour of the introduction of the second reading of the draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2020 of Father Joseph Mary Bocheński, print No. 1310, and considering this item as item forty-second agenda? Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. The votes were 82 senators, 60 votes against, 21 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 50]] Who is in favour of introducing the second reading of the draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2020 of St. John Paul II, print no. 1311, and consider this point as point forty-third? Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Well, that's interesting. Please report the results. 80 Senators voted, 58 votes against, 22 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 51]] Who is in favour of introducing the second reading of the draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2020 as the Year of the Battle of Warsaw, print No. 1312, and considering this item as item of the 40th agenda? Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 Senators voted, 59 for, 22 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 52]] Who is in favour of the introduction of a point on the activities of the Social Dialogue Council for the term of office of the President of the Trade Union Forum, printing No 1314, and considering this item as item of the 40th agenda? Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 Senators voted, 58 votes against, 21 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 53]] Who is in favour of putting Senator Grzegorz Pekkis on the agenda and considering this item as item 40 of the seventh agenda? Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 Senators voted, 55 for, 25 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 54]] Dear Senators, I would like to inform you that the item on the 2018 Social Dialogue Council's report on the agenda will now be item forty-five. I propose that the report on the activities of the Social Council for 2018 be examined jointly in the 45th, as well as in the 40th, and information on the activities of the Social Dialogue Council for the term of office of the President of the Trade Union Forum. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. There's no objection? There isn't. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Dear Senators, I would like to inform you that in the absence of legislative proposals to point twenty-second, i.e. The second reading of the draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2020 by Jan Kowalewski, the vote on this item will take place immediately after its consideration. If legislative proposals are tabled, the vote will be held after the end of the session and after the committee's report on the matter has been prepared. Tomorrow, i.e. On Friday, October 18th, we will begin the session at 9.00 a.m. after considering the second reading of the draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2020 by the Year of Father Józef Maria Bochenski. And immediately after considering this item, we will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution. The remaining votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Tomorrow, too, we will proceed with the examination of the ratification points, which are points thirty-eighth, thirty-nineth, forty and forty-first. We will then proceed with a joint debate on the points on the report and information of the Social Dialogue Council. There will be an adjournment tomorrow. From 12 a.m. to 13.30 p.m. Tomorrow, from 12:00 p.m. to 1:30 p.m. What about today's one? At 4:00... Is it written somewhere? It's supposed to be written. The senator was supposed to serve it, but he didn't. And you were supposed to give it to me before the meeting started. Good. This is also announced that today at 4:00 p.m. a break will be announced by 5:00 p.m. It's an hour's break from 4:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Senators, there are boxes on the desktops where you will find names of senators. I'd like them to be accepted as a souvenir of the end of the Senate's term of office. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-second of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2020 by Jan Kowalewski. Hello, welcome to our guests. Welcome very cordially: Mr Mariusz Gossa, Director of the Office for Social Communication and Heritage of Łódź City Office, Mr Andrzej Janecki from the Office for Social Communication and Heritage of Łódź, Ms Katarzyna Zielińska from the Office for Social Communication and Heritage of Łódź, Ms Edyta Glińska from the Office for Social Communication and Heritage of Łódź, Mrs Jolanta Daszyńska from the University of Łódź, Mr Ryszard Juśkiewicz, President of the Management Board of the Department of the Land of Łódź Association of Pilsudów of the Republic of Poland − Society of Remembrance of Józef Piłsudski. Hello: Mr Eugeniusz Lipert, President of the Łódź Łódź Circle of the United Nations Peacekeeping Missions Association, Mr Zbigniew Sławski of the United Nations Peace Mission Combatants Association, Mr Marek Skrzydlewski of the Łódź ZHP Cholag, Mr Robert Supł, Director of the Museum of Józef Piłsudski in Sulejówek, Mr Edward Kulanty of the Łódź Kurkowy Brotherhood and Mr Włodzimierz Tłokinski of the Łódź Kurkowy Brotherhood. [[Applause]] Welcome very much. I would remind you that this project was introduced by the Committee on Culture and Media. Print No 1278 and the report − Print No 1278 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Richard Bonisławski, to submit a report to the committee on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! I speak with great fear, because there are so many guests, but at the same time with great satisfaction that this special resolution was introduced to this last Senate meeting. We have prepared a resolution in the Committee on Culture and Media, where it was adopted unanimously, and on 24 September it was adopted by the Legislative Commission, where it was adopted unanimously. Of course, each of these committees made some minor amendments, mostly stylistic. Jan Kowalewski... Before I read the resolution... Because the resolution is about an event. The point is that people who have not yet met this name elsewhere, reading historical descriptions, Jan Kowalewski seems closer. I will just say that Jan Kowalewski, who was born in Łódź − and thus our presence here to him and so many people interested in Jan Kowalewski − has served... Because for some, it was also surprising how he knew Russian military realities. He served as a reserve officer in the Tsar's communications army. In 1917 he left the Russian army and became a Polish soldier. In turn, after 1920 the resolution concerns mainly this period of time Jan Kowalewski has already remained in uniform. In 1923, among others. He went to Japan to train the Japanese to read encrypted Russian orders. Besides, he brought from Japan various devices, which the Polish army and also the Romanian army used in the interwar period, reading what was encrypted in Moscow. He also graduated from the military academy in France and later with a high rank of officer, because initially he was only a lieutenant, he went to diplomatic posts in Moscow, where he was removed at Stalin's request, and to Bucharest. For the rest of his life, he had almost perfect relations with the Romanians, which also resulted in him being directed to such a silent front of softening Soviet influences in eastern Europe, which was called the Trojneóg. And there he worked fruitfully until 1944, when again, at Stalin's request, he was sent to the hands of the Allies, but he did not cease his service. As a curiosity, I can tell you that the last cipher he was able to read came from the January Uprising. In the century of this uprising, the Traugutt cipher found in the London archive was read by him. But I'll give you that as a curiosity. I will now proceed to read the resolution in the final version. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the establishment of the year 2020 by Jan Kowalewski. In 2020 we will celebrate the 100th anniversary of the victory against Bolshevik Russia. To fight with Poland she threw a two million army, well equipped with equipment from the Tsar army and commanded by officers prepared yet at the Russian Academy of General Staff. Poland could counter the Red Army with eight hundred thousand soldiers armed with equipment from different countries. The Polish victory was to be decided by factors other than the power bill. A key element of the war was the creation by Polish scientists of the state-of-the-art radio-electronic intelligence in Europe, and one of the main roles in its construction was played by Lt. Jan Kowalewski. Jan Kowalewski, born in Łódź in 1892 From the Buyer's Junior High School in Łódź he gained excellent knowledge of mathematics and foreign languages. He deepened his knowledge of mathematical combinatoria in engineering studies in Liège (Belgium). Since the fall of 1919, working at the Intelligence Bureau of the Second Supreme Command of the Polish Army, he began to break the Bolshevik ciphers. This enabled us to read orders and reports of formations fighting against Poland. Lt. Kowalewski reached such efficiency in his field that the orders for specific Soviet divisions were on the second day after the appointment of Chief Chief Józef Piłsudski on his desk. It was a reliable material that did not require verification, as in the case of personal sources of information. Lt. Jan Kowalewski was also an excellent analyst in complex civil war issues in Russia. His knowledge of the tasks of the Soviet army and divisions was comparable to that of their chiefs of staff. Its role in the creation of cryptographic structures of the Polish Army and in the establishment of Section II (Alien's ciphers) of the Cipher Bureau, the key link created by employees of the Warsaw and Lviv universities. The plan of the Battle of Warsaw, created on August 6, 1920, was based on information gathered by Polish radiowiad. He provided the Chief of State, as well as the Chief Chief, Marshal Józef Piłsudski, with extremely up-to-date, reliable knowledge of the purposes, strength, grouping, activities, assets and weaknesses of the enemy in terms of his military and political and diplomatic activities. This knowledge, skillfully used by the Supreme Command of the Polish Army, had a significant impact on the defeat of Bolshevik Russia and thus on saving Europe from the flood of communism. After the end of the war, Jan Kowalewski participated in the third Silesian Uprising, and in later years, promoted to the rank of lieutenant colonel, he performed many responsible functions of state. He was a military attaché at the Polish Parliament in Moscow and Bucharest. During World War II, General Władysław Sikorski led extensive intelligence operations in the Axis countries. After the war he could not return to Poland, died in a foreign country, in London in 1965. The establishment of the year 2020 Jan Kowalewski will honor His merits and thus the achievements of Polish science and technical thought. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. I'd like to add one more thing, by the way. Today we talked to the marshal about the fact that in Grójc there is a unit of radio telegraph troops named Jan Kowalewski. They requested to bring the colonel's ashes from London to Poland. That's all we know so far. I think that this will be mentioned in the next session, in the new term. Thank you for your attention and request a resolution. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants authorized them to represent Senator Richard Bonisławski. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. They've already been asked at committee meetings. Thank you very much, Senator. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. We are voting on the draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2020 by Jan Kowalewski. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. [[Voting No 55]] [[Applause]] 69 senators voted, 68 were in favour, none of the senators voted against, one abstention. In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the establishment of the year 2020 by Jan Kowalewski. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. Do you mind if I sit down? Yeah, you can sit down. Thank you very much for attending the meeting. We'll proceed with the review of the point... We're handing out a resolution? No. At a meeting with the marshal... The resolution will be handed over at a meeting with Marshal Stanisław Karczewski. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-third of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution establishing the year 2020 as the Year of Physics. I remind you that the project was brought in by Senator Kazimierz Wind. The project is contained in print No 1282, and the report is published in print No 1282 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Kazimierz Wiatr, to present the committee's report on the draft resolution. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u6	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I present the draft resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland establishing the year 2020 as the Year of Physics. This is an important resolution, which in summary highlights the role of science in social and economic life, and in particular the area of science related to physics. This resolution is part of the celebration of the century of regaining independence by Poland, because it is directly related to the century of the Polish Physical Society, whose first initiatives took place in January 1919, and its formation took place in April 1920. This initiative to establish 2020 Year of Physics is supported by the Polish Physical Society, as well as by the Committee of Physics of the Polish Academy of Sciences. This resolution refers directly to the history and the latest achievements of Polish scientists in the field of physics, and this includes a comprehensive section of this resolution. The basic print no. 1282 of the draft resolution was accompanied by a program announced by the Senate of the Year of Physics; this is, of course, a draft program. Only the most important points of this celebration have been included here. The celebrations are planned much wider, but due to the importance of the Senate I limited the scope of these celebrations to the most important events: the Extraordinary Congress of Polish Physics, the unveiling of the plaque commemorating the centenary of the Polish Physical Society, the historical session, also the session related to physics in Poland and in the world, the announcement of the results of the competition for installations commemorating Polish discoverers and discoverers, as well as the solemn ball of the Physicians at the Warsaw University of Technology, as well as many scientific and popular science events such as readings, lectures, radio and television broadcasts, articles in the press, Internet events. Of course, there is also a whole set of events in the Senate, and therefore today's adoption of the resolution, the jubilee conference organized jointly by the Commission for Science, Education and Sports of the Senate of the Republic of Poland and the Polish Physical Society, an interactive exhibition presenting achievements of outstanding Polish physicists, an occasional lecture on the achievements of Polish physics. I will now present the text of the proposed resolution with the amendments made during the meeting of the Legislative Commission, which I thank at this point for the kind inclination and discussion of the draft resolution. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland establishing the year 2020 as the Year of Physics. The Senate of the Republic of Poland establishes the year 2020 as the Year of Physics, in the 100th anniversary of the Polish Physical Society. At the same time, the Senate wishes to highlight the merits of Polish physicists for the world science and to recall the extraordinary development of Polish physics, which took place after Poland regained independence in 1918. On 11 April 1920 the Polish Physical Society, created by the transformation of the Physical Society, started in January 1919 in the physics building of the Warsaw University of Technology. Among the founding members were outstanding Polish scholars: Tadeusz Godlewski, Stanisław Kalinowski, Józef Kowalski-Wierusz, Władysław Natanson, Stefan Pieńkowski, Witold Pogorzelski, Edward Stenz, Ludwik Wertenstein, Konstanty Zakrzewski, Stanisław Ziemecki. The uprisings of the Polish Physical Society, whose honorary member was Maria Skłodowska-Curie, were not awaited by outstanding Polish physicists: Marian Smoluchowski and Karol Olszewski, who died during World War I. On 30 January 1921, the Department of Physics of the University of Warsaw was opened at 69 Hożej Street. This facility, created and led by Stefan Pieńkowski, was soon recognized as the world's leading luminescence research centre, as evidenced by its performance at the request of the international community of the First International Luminescence Congress in May 1936. Two years later, in 1938, one of the world's most important conferences on quantum mechanics was held in Warsaw by Czesław Białobrzeski. The names of Polish physicists of the interwar period, who achieved scientific results of great importance, form a long list. It is headed by Wojciech Rubinowicz, Aleksandr Jabłoński, Marian Mędziewicz and Mieczysław Wolfke. Wojciech Rubinowicz completed and developed the theory of diffraction of light, which is now widely known as Young-Rubinowicz's theory. Aleksander Jabłoński provided a diagram of energy levels, which is now the primary tool for particle testing (commonly known today as the Jabłoński diagram). Marian Mędziewicz discovered an anisotropic viscosity of liquid crystals and determined the corresponding coefficients, known today under the name of Mędziewicz's coefficients. Mieczysław Wolfke and Dutch Willem Keesome discovered hel-2, the first quantum liquid with unusual properties. Henryk Niewódzanski and Jan Blaton discovered a very rare type of atomic radiation: dipole magnetic radiation. Despite massive personal and material damage during World War II and occupation, physics in Poland was rapidly reborn. In 1952. Marian Danysz and Jerzy Pniewski from the Institute of Experimental Physics at the University of Warsaw discovered a new kind of matter Hypernuclears, containing also hyperonons and protons. A new branch of nuclear physics was created in this way. Hypernuclear physics. In 1962, the first double hypernuclear was also discovered in Warsaw, containing two hyperoned lambda. Danish and Pniewski were nominated several times for the Nobel Prize in Physics. Leonard Sosnowski developed studies in solid body physics in Poland, especially semiconductors with a narrow energy gap. The great success of Polish physicists, mainly Robert Galązki, was the discovery and examination of the properties of the so-called. semi-magnetic semiconductors, materials of a new type, having both semi-conductive and magnetic properties. According to an influential journal, Nature was one of the most important achievements in spin physics. The world's recognition for Polish achievements was to entrust Poland with the largest international conventions in this field: the International Conference of semiconductor Physics in 1972 and 1988. The International Union of Pure and Applied Physics (IUPAP), the most important physical organization in the world, selected Leonard Sosnowski as vice president. He was elected President of the IUPAP for the 1978-1981 term. Polish researchers in particle physics and high energy were co-authors of important discoveries: neutrino oscillations (Super Kamiokande Japan, Nobel 2015) and Higgs boson (CERN, Switzerland, Nobel 2013). The world's largest congress in physics was held in Warsaw in 1996. Polish physicists also achieved results at a global level. Jan Weyssenhoff of the Jagiellonian University introduced the concept of spin fluid into physics, and the student of Leopold Infeld Andrzej Trautman from the University of Warsaw gave convincing evidence of the existence of gravitational waves, which significantly contributed to the increase of research, culminating in the discovery of these waves in September 2015, with the participation of Polish experimentators and theorists. It is worth adding that in recent years Polish physicists have found themselves three times among the winners of the recently established prestigious Prize: for neutrino research, for the discovery of the Higgs boson and for the discovery of gravitational waves. The establishment by the Senate of the Republic of Poland of 2020 The Year of Physics is the honoring of Polish physicists and their achievements, as well as the appreciation of the civilizational importance of this field of science. We want the Year of Physics to bring even greater recognition in our society for the role of science, in particular physics and its contribution to the development of the economy and the impact on our daily lives. Interest in physics, an extremely interesting experimental science, translates into an increase in skills in this field of subsequent generations. Scientific and professional activities in this area are particularly important when building an information society and a knowledge-based economy. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the senators, to adopt the resolution that has been passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u7	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute's query to the rapporteur and to the applicant. I remind you that the applicant was also Senator Kazimierz Wind. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much, Senator. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft resolution. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-four of the agenda: the Act amending the Sports Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No. 1317 and the committee's report In print No 1317 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Andrzej Kaminski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Scientific, Education and Sports Committee has today examined the Act amending the Sports Act. During the committee meeting, the purpose and subject of the bill were presented by the Deputy Minister of Sport and Tourism, Ms Anna Krupka. The purpose of the Act amending the Sports Act is to introduce an additional condition which will enable sports unions to fulfil in the so-called. Non-Olympic sports that do not meet the conditions of belonging to the International Sport Federation of the MKOl effectively applying for the status of the Polish Sports Association. To date, these unions have not been able to apply for this status since they were not part of an international sports federation operating in Olympic or Special Olympic sports or other sport recognised by the MCC. The Act assumes that the Minister responsible for physical culture by means of a regulation, based on high popularity, the level of development of the sport concerned, his active participation in the doping system and the extent of the activities of the entity concerned, will establish a list of international sports federations operating in the so-called. non-Olympic sports. This solution gives the opportunity for the sports union to present its consent for the creation of a Polish sports association a certificate of membership of the international sports federation included in this ministerial list. Ladies and gentlemen, the Act also provides that, in justified cases, the Minister responsible for Foreign Affairs. physical culture may award an additional prize to a person who, as a result of disqualifying other players for doping in sport, has gained a better place than the place for which she has already been rewarded. This law was passed by the Sejm on 16 October this year and the draft was a government submission. The Act raises no legislative objections. There was no discussion during the committee's work. The committee therefore unanimously requests that the law be adopted without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u9	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute's query to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Sport and Tourism has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Madam Secretary of State Anna Krupka is present at the meeting. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Act on the amendment of the Sports Act contains proposals for 2 amendments: the first is to introduce a new additional criterion for the creation of Polish sports unions, and the second, taking into account parliamentary amendments, adds the basis for the grant by the Minister of Sport and Tourism of an additional monetary prize to persons who, as a result of disqualifying other players for doping in sport after years, have gained a better place than the place for which they have already been awarded, i.e. the so-called. relocation. Changes in the creation of Polish sports unions will consist in the possibility of creating a Polish sport association also in sports where international organisations recognised by the International Olympic Committee are not functioning. This will enable players active in mass-grown sports, but not fulfilling the current criterion of belonging to such an organisation, the creation of a Polish sport association and the possibility for them to benefit from budgetary resources, e.g. athletic scholarships or the funding of national staff. With regard to prizes, thanks to the new rules, the Minister of Sport and Tourism will be able to award an additional prize to those who have not previously received it in the right amount due to the fact that they have taken a lower place in the medal classification in cases where the opponent has proved to be better thanks to doping. However, this solution will not include those who have been punished for doping in sport with a unit dimension of more than one month. These rules are part of the policy of the Ministry of Sport and Tourism to combat doping in sport while promoting competition in the spirit of fair play. I ask the High Senate to accept the proposed solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u11	Minister, just a moment, please, wait for the speaker. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Well, thank you very much, Minister. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill will be held at the end of the meeting. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-fifth of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Road Traffic. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1325 and the report of the committee In print No 1325 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Jack Włosowicz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u12	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! On 17 October this year, the Infrastructure Commission discussed the law on amending the Road Traffic Law. This law proposes 2 major amendments: the first amendment concerns ensuring the rapid passage of rescue services taking rescue action in the event of a road accident and the second amendment concerns the reduction of road congestion by introducing uniform rules for the lane change manoeuvre if one of them is not possible on the road where there are at least 2 lanes. Like I said, the committee met this morning. At first, the Minister presented the most important changes that I spoke about a few seconds ago. The legislator has not proposed any amendments. Senator Pekkis spoke in the discussion, who stressed the need for practical solutions introduced by this legislation. The Minister added to his statement on issues related to educational activities and gave the floor to the Director of the National Road Safety Council, who discussed the issues of how all this will be promoted and introduced. Then we took the vote. Unanimously, four votes, the legislative proposal was accepted. The Infrastructure Commission therefore requests the adoption of this law to the High Senate.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u13	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jan Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u14	Mr rapporteur, you mentioned that the slider rule would be applied in a way whenever a lane is closed. But does this rule also apply to unexpected situations? Because I understand that there are also planned roads on which there is no second lane, as a rule there is no second lane, or the road is closed for repair reasons. But it can also be an unexpected situation, due to an accident, failure of the preceding cars etc., etc. Will that rule be applied?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u15	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u16	Mr. Senator, we didn't discuss such details in the discussion. But if the senator were willing to address this question to the Minister or to your director, he would have gotten the answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u17	Thank you very much. Senator Piotr Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u18	Thank you, Mr. Marshal! I have a question. Of course, any law that improves road safety is important. Riding a zipper may not be so complicated, but so-called. The Way of Life And sometimes we've seen very strange things happening on the roads on TV... I would like to ask you about the sanctions that will be imposed on this bill. What, then, will be the possible sanctions for non-compliance with these changes?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u19	The bill doesn't introduce any new regulations, Mr. Senator. The existing provisions on sanctions will be applied.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u20	Thank you very much. You're still Senator Florek. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u21	This may also be an additional question, because in relation to road safety and this law it was not only about the so-called issue. a corridor of life, riding on a zipper, but also about the so-called issues. UTO personal transport equipment, i.e. scooters. So did you discuss at the committee meeting maybe... Because this is a very important and urgent issue. It was the government's information that it might be in this term of office, but from what we have, it appears that there will probably no longer be any legislative changes in this matter during this term. Did you talk about it?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u22	No, Senator, this issue was not raised at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u23	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Infrastructure has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Come on in, Minister. Welcome to Minister Rafał Weber.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u24	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! We are presenting a very important project during this last drop of the current term. The project, which will increase road safety, the project expected especially by all environments, which on a daily basis take care of ensuring that Polish roads are safe, i.e. by emergency services, police, fire department, medical services. First of all, we want to define in this project the behaviour in the event of an accident and in the situation of congestion, i.e. the behaviour that causes the creation of a corridor of life. Knowing that every second matters, knowing that the sooner the services reach the victims, the sooner the help will be given, and thus increasing the possibility of saving health and life, we decided to legally define and introduce these behaviours into the Polish legal order. We are very pleased that the corridor of life and these rules were adopted yesterday by the Sejm: 415 Members voted in favour of this law, 6 against, 2 abstentions. This shows that the vast majority of the Polish Sejm is in favour of such legal construction being incorporated into the law on road traffic and then, of course, applied in practice on Polish roads. The same rule applies to zipper rides. Riding to the slider will allow for a narrowing of the road and in situations where one of at least two lanes disappears in one direction, the ride will be run smoothly so that this ride is conducted in a way that also inhibits road aggression among drivers. This is due to the clearly defined, defined rules of conduct that we have in this law. I would like to thank once again all those who contributed to this bill. I would like to direct my thanks to Director Konrad Romik, who is the Secretary of the National Road Safety Council. Thank you very much to all the members who constitute this body. I hope that next projects will be ahead of us, which will allow us to increase road safety on Polish roads. Both have been implemented in parts of the countries of the European Union. In Austria, for example. It has been examined that the creation of a corridor of life increases the chance of survival of victims by up to 40%. I ask the High House to adopt this law so that it can enter the Polish legal order as soon as possible and be used on Polish roads as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u25	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? This is Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have two specific questions and one more general question. The first one concerns the zipper ride. Do these regulations also include bus lanes? What if a buspas appears and it reduces the number of lanes? Because it's not written in a formal, literal way. Should there be such a provision, or is it simply general enough that this case will be covered? Two. Will the current criminal rules be sufficient to ensure that the corridor of life is only made available to the right, privileged vehicles? Which particular penalty regulation will prevent other vehicles from moving in the hallway of life? The more general question concerns congestion on the highway. Is it possible and necessary to amend the rules on the discharge of these congestions, e.g. opening emergency passageways or even enabling return, i.e. driving in the second direction, by the second lane of the highway, by opening a barrier separating both directions of traffic?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u27	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u28	Thank you very much. I'm answering question number one. Our regulation does not include bus lanes. I'm answering question number two. In our view, the current criminal sanctions for non-application of traffic legislation are sufficient. Of course, we will be looking at how the corridors of life will be applied in practice, how drivers will behave, because these are regulations that affect drivers. We hope that in promoting these changes, these provisions will help educational actions that are already under way. It was prepared by the National Road Safety Council, a film that illustrates how to create a corridor of life. This movie is exciting. It is made in a very interesting way, so that I encourage all those who can do so to find it online and recreate it. Of course, this film is promoted in the media, in the nationwide ones, but also in social media. I think that anyone who sees him, first of all, will know how to behave, and second of all, will know, first of all, how important it is to create a corridor of life and how to make room for privileged vehicles can help to get help to the victims faster. As regards the use of the life corridor by vehicles other than privileged vehicles, these privileged vehicles are enumeratively mentioned in the Act and no other vehicle has the right to connect to and follow these vehicles, using the fact that such travel is created on the motorway or expressway. Third question... If the senator could repeat them because... The question of how to unload traffic on motorways when there is, let's assume, some kind of accident, is completely blocked the possibility of traveling in one direction. This is not what we are introducing.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u29	Thank you very much. Minister, I'm gonna take this opportunity, and I'm gonna ask you one more question. And what sanctions are applied at the moment when these rules are not being implemented?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u30	At the moment, an infringement of the rules governing lane change is a violation of Article. 97 of the Code of Offences and Art. Article 86 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Code of Offences defines the conduct that threatens road safety, and criminal penalties are imposed for such acts under this Article. I'm not gonna tell you what height it is. These are parking tickets.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u31	Okay, thank you very much. Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u32	Minister, you have heard my question: does the slider rule apply only to predictable, planned situations resulting from marking, dams, etc., or to situations where an accident and 1 lane or even 2 of 3 lanes are blocked? Going to the zipper... Wait a minute, second question, if you don't mind. Unless, of course, one at a time... There you go, Mr. Senator. In these regulations, at least this was indicated in the discussion, when introducing the way of life and securing its passage... It's said that vehicles should be on the left. This is understandable, because the way of life, as a side of life, is usually on the right side. But, first, there are roads that do not have a side of the road, and second, it is not always possible to move to the left, while it is possible to shift to the right side of the road of life, for example. There's still some ground out there.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u33	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u34	As far as the first question is concerned, the zipper ride must apply in both cases. It is therefore applicable in such cases where there is a planned narrowing to one lane, i.e. there's a repair that takes weeks or months, and the drivers, on this route, know that such a narrowing will take place. But also in an emergency situation, in an unexpected situation, in a situation where there is an accident if there is a car that cannot be started, and one lane is turned off, this zipper ride must be applied. With regard to the creation of a corridor of life, the justification is to describe the behaviour of drivers when there are 2 lanes in one direction, but also when there are 3 lanes in one direction. These proposed provisions are based on the experience of those countries which have already implemented the corridor of life into their legislation. So far, only the Czechs have tried to apply this solution on the right side of the corridor of life, but because this solution was less practical, it was not as effective as they would like, they changed the system in the image of other countries of the European Union and the corridor of life in the case of 3 roadways is created there from the left, between the first and second lanes. Well, I assure you. This is also the result of the studies. It's quicker to get to the victims and to the scene of the accident. Yet, Mr. Marshal, a supplementary question about the zipper.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u35	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u36	The slider shall be used for unilateral stenosis or unilateral closure, but I don't remember if it ever happened to me. It could be that it's closed on a three-lane road... Yes. ...there are two extreme belts. Yes. And then how do you use a zipper?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u37	Then the slider is applied alternately. Here, too, I refer to the justification, where this behavior is also illustrated in a picture way. As the first in such a situation, a car should be released from the right lane as the second car out of the lane... Uh-huh. ...left and third of the middle lane. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u38	Thank you very much. Senator Piotr Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u39	Thank you. Minister, we often drive on European roads. The question is, is this bill, first of all about... zipper rides maybe less important than this way of life. We drive around Europe, so my question is this: is this solution that we have introduced here similar to those that are in other countries? Is this legally regulated in other countries? Because it's so important that we want to know how to possibly behave beyond our borders. And I have another question, such an additional question, because safety on Polish roads is very low at the moment, statistics are inexorable. Are there any new changes to the rules, more important provisions? Because I'm not gonna say that this bill isn't important, but there are laws that... For example, what I mentioned, these UTOs, or so-called scooters. Are you planning to amend these provisions in the near future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u40	Thank you very much. As far as the other countries of the European Union and the corridor of life are concerned, so far 7 countries have such regulations in their legal order. This is Germany, Austria, the Czech Republic, Luxembourg, Slovenia and Hungary. Our regulation is in the image of all those who are currently operating in the countries of the European Union, and it is precisely because these experiences are positive and such a normalization of drivers' behaviour has simply resulted in results. That is why we want to implement this into the Polish legal order in exactly the same way or in a very similar way. As far as personal transport equipment is concerned, the Ministry of Infrastructure has prepared a draft amendment to the law, which goes counter to waiting to regulate the mobility of electric vehicles such as electric scooters. At the moment, this project is after a public consultation. A lot of comments were received. a lot of environments. We are now analyzing these comments, imposing them on our bill, and of course we will have to weigh which of them will be accepted and which of them are rejected, because many of these comments are excluded. Some expect even more rights for users of personal transport equipment, others expect a greater reduction in the use of electric scooters. We need to balance this, we need to offer a compromise solution, but a solution that will ensure the safety of both users of electric scooters and especially pedestrians, because it is at the interface between the user of electric scooter and pedestrians that we see the greatest threat. So far, the most conflict-related situations have occurred with these two groups using road infrastructure. Well, on the other hand, the most serious accident, and it was a fatal accident, occurred after the collision of a man driving an electric scooter with a car. This has been the only fatal accident in our country so far, and I hope that there will be no more such accidents. The market for electric scooters was developing very quickly this year. In the autumn the weather will get worse and these vehicles will become less and less, but certainly since the new spring-summer season these scooters will be in Polish cities even more. We want to prepare these rules in a good way, we want to adapt them to reality, we want them to have a practical sound so that they do not create legal fiction so that they do not create rules that are dead, empty, which will later not be applied. We are at the end of the public consultation and when these demands or comments are made on this project, of course we will want to proceed with it in the new term of the Sejm and the Senate. Mr. Marshal, if I may say one more sentence... Thank you very much for including this draft law on corridors of life and zipper riding on this agenda. As I said, it did not raise any controversy at the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure in the Sejm or during the vote in the plenary room, nor did it raise any doubts at today's meeting of the Senate Committee on Infrastructure. I ask the High House to accept it, because I think we all expect it to improve safety on Polish roads, and this project is intended to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u41	Thank you very much, Minister. No further questions. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Piotr Florek, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u42	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Every project, every bill that improves road safety, requires support. And there's no doubt... I am convinced that the entire House will support this project. I think that when it comes to road safety, it is particularly important for this project on the corridor of life, because we know that in some cases every minute is expensive, and there have been situations where it was difficult for the services to travel within a certain period of time and, therefore, in some cases, there has been quite a risk of life. This is a bill of good and requires support. I would like to say a few more words in connection with the fact that this is only one law, and the expectations that there will be an improvement in road safety in Poland are large. Because this is my last performance at the Senate. Unless I say something tomorrow. I would also like to say a few more words about road safety. Because it's bad, it's bad in Poland. Bravura, aggression is what we meet on the roads with, is speeding. Unfortunately, it is such a flaw, a Polish defect, because when Poles go abroad, they can adapt somehow. Here, Sweden, Norway would be a good example. When one of us goes there, he knows how to drive on these roads, and, unfortunately, with us, it's the way it is. There was a national program about road safety, improvement of safety. There was such an assumption, and it functioned, it worked in Poland actually for 20 years, that every year about 200 people will die on Polish roads. According to the assumptions, this programme would end in 2020 and no more than 2 000 people would die on Polish roads. It all collapsed in 2015, 2016 and now it doesn't work anymore. Why isn't it working? Here's a question for the Ministry. The point is to learn from it, change the laws that need to be changed. Why doesn't it work, doesn't it work? Why do too many people die on the roads? This year is tragic, the first half of the year died, as I remember, of 166 more people than last year. The number of road casualties is in the range of 3,000. In 2016, 2017, 2018, there were 100 or 50 fewer victims. We continued to oscillate around 3,000 victims. It will be the same this year, and I think it will be difficult to improve next year. Regulations, among others. This bill, it improves something, but it is not a significant step towards a real improvement in road safety. What's going on in Poland? First of all, cars arrive. We all know that, and I'm about to say something about it. In addition, road inspections It is mainly about the photo-radars that had local governments that have been liquidated. In Poland today we have 470 or 480 speed cameras on the roads. In other European countries... If I remember correctly, there are almost 6,000 in Italy, over 5,000 in Great Britain, about 4,000 in Germany. That's where traffic is more controlled. And with us, despite the fact that I reported to the committee at the meeting that the Road Transport Inspection would increase their purchases so that there would be more traffic control, so that the police would have more cars, especially unmarked ones, because they would be returning soon enough because of the number of parking tickets that could be imposed... Unfortunately, the mechanisms are not working, nothing has been done in this direction. We still have the same number of victims, and there could be fewer of them. We have to take action here. As far as the number of cars is concerned, probably 980 000 cars were imported from abroad last year. About 600 thousand new cars were sold. Some were withdrawn, but every year we get about 1 million cars in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already exceeded the average of the European Union and Germany. We have 670 registered cars per 1,000 inhabitants and an EU average That's 587. So we've got a lot of cars. Have we improved road infrastructure? Yeah, we've improved it pretty much. The first stage of road construction is slowly ending. There won't be much new highways, but there will be express roads. We're improving the infrastructure, but the number of cars, the fact that they're growing up every year... The worst part is, sometimes they're cars that are age-old. If I remember correctly, it's 50 percent, almost 60%. These cars are over 10 years old. So this is also an important direction. I am signaling what action needs to be taken to improve security, because compared to other European countries, we look very bad. Let me give you an example. I'll tell you what it looks like right now. In Poland, there are 7.6 deaths per 100,000 inhabitants. What is it like in other countries? There's, like, 2.8 in the UK. I'm not talking about Norway anymore because it's under 2. In other countries, this is between 3 and 4 victims per 100,000 inhabitants. There's two or three times as many of us. There's a lot to do and a lot to fix. Actions that... I will say that, unfortunately, in the last four years, little has been done in this direction to improve safety. We know the statistics. Unfortunately, the situation on Polish roads is as it is. About 8 people die on Polish roads every day, giving around 3 000 victims a year. It can be reduced, it can be improved. The National Road Remodeling Program clearly showed the direction, but unfortunately we can't adapt to the requirements of this program. One last thing, that is the issue of sanctions. The Minister said here that sanctions, when it comes to the question of the corridor of life, do not change, but I think it is important to think carefully about the fact that there is a lot of bravado and aggression that... I'm talking about a sense of impunity. That's the sense of impunity. Many drivers think they're safe, and they are. The likelihood that I'll be arrested for bravado, for aggression, is small. Therefore, we have the situations we have on Polish roads. I think there's still a lot to do to improve security. These are not so difficult actions. For example, what I said about the increase in the number of cameras. You should've done it by now. You should've bought it. I know that punishing and so on. It's not the best way, but there's no other way. It's just that if there are no higher sanctions, more mandates, more possibilities to punish for breaking the rules, then unfortunately in the Polish mentality we have... Let me just remind you once again what I said at first: that when we go abroad, we see that there is no problem with that. Where it's 50 km/h, they're all going 50 km/h. It's 50 km/h in Poland, and we're going 80, 90 km/h. Well, luckily, these speeding regulations of 50 km/h result in certain sanctions, taking away a driving licence for 3 months, except that this only applies to a built-up area. I think it would have to be extended so it wouldn't just be in a built-up area. 'Cause it's a serious threat, though, and it's speeding as long as a mile an hour. So that I support this bill that the Minister has put forward, and rightly... And this corridor of life may be finally settled. The recipe is not necessary, but again: we know the mentality that we have. If we don't have it written, clearly defined, then it can be different with this ride. So that's, I think, right and right. Nevertheless, Minister, there is much still to be done and to be improved. But that's probably in the next term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u43	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-six of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Family and Care Code and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1315 and the report of the committee In print No 1315 A. I would ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Alexander Schwed, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Joint Committees, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, I would like to present a draft amendment to the Law on Family and Welfare. This amendment is the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. The Constitutional Tribunal in its judgment of 16 May 2018, e.g. Act SK18/17 found non-compliance with Article. 70 §1 of the Act of 25 February 1964. Family and caring code with the Constitution. The Court held that this provision, in so far as it sets a time limit for an action to be brought against the fatherhood of the mother's husband, irrespective of the date on which an adult child becomes aware that it does not originate from his mother's husband, is incompatible with the Constitution. The problem is that this term is completely disconnected from the moment the person learned that it was not from his mother's husband. The legal solution provided for in the contested Article. 70 §1, which closes the investigation of the denial of fatherhood after the expiry of the 3-year deadline, constitutes a restriction on the constitutional right to know its own biological roots. The proposed amendment proposes that a child should be able to bring an action after age to deny the fatherhood of his mother's husband, but not later than a year after his or her age was reached. However, if the child learns that it does not come from his mother's husband, it will start running from the day the child learns of this circumstance. The duration of the annual period for the child to bring an action for denial of motherhood or the determination of the ineffectiveness of the recognition of fatherhood shall be determined in the same way as in the case of denial of fatherhood and the amendment of the Article is therefore proposed. 6114, Art. 70 §1 and Art. 81 §2. According to the government project, uniform annual deadlines will also apply to time limits limiting the active legitimacy to question the origin of the child. The six-month time limits laid down in Article will be extended. 6113, Art. 63, 64, 65, 69, 76 and 78. According to the justification of the government project, this solution is intended to give time for the most interested parties to decide whether or not to accept the legal situation generated. The draft amendment of the law "Family and caring" is a result of 2 projects: the Senate draft law contained in print No 3486 and the government draft law contained in the sejm print No 3573, which were considered during the eighty-sixth session of the Sejm. The first reading took place on 19 July this year. The projects were then addressed to the Extraordinary Commission for Changes in Codifications. The Commission has adopted a resolution on the joint consideration of these projects. The government project was considered to be leading because it was wider and at the same time contained solutions contained in the Senate project. For this submission, amendments of a uniform and editorial nature have been adopted. 2 amendments were tabled at the second reading of the Sejm meeting on 15 October. Their aim was to extend the amendments to the amendment of the Act of Insolvency, the Law of Restructuring and the Act of 4 July on the amendment of the Act of Civil Procedure. Those amendments were to enter into force on 7 November 2019. The amendments were supported in the Sejm. The adoption of the entire bill, along with the amendments, was supported by 388 Members, 8 against, 3 abstentions. Following the referral of the bill to the Senate, the joint senate committees, the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, worked on this amendment today and after a brief discussion unanimously, with 11 votes in favour, adopted the proposed amendment. Therefore, on behalf of the joint committees, I also request the adoption by the High Chamber of the attached draft resolution on the amendment of the law "Family and caring code" contained in print No 1315. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u45	Thank you very much, Senator, for your very detailed report. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you, Senator. The drafts of this law were submitted by the government and the Senate. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Ms Anna Dalkowska, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, is present at the meeting. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-seven of the agenda: the Law on amending the Law on Criminal Code and the Law on Civil Procedure. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1320 and the report of the committee In print No 1320 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Zbigniew Cichoń, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u46	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The law adopted by the Sejm concerns amendments to the Criminal Code on the criminalisation of acts against the family, changes in the introduction of criminal liability for the adoption which is carried out in order to achieve a financial or personal advantage. The amendment introduces criminal liability for the person who has parental authority over the child and who consents to the adoption of the child in order to achieve a property or personal benefit, concealing that purpose before the court ruling in the adoption proceedings and, in the event that the parent consents to the adoption of the child in the future, without indicating the host person to the court which accepts the declaration of consent and the responsibility for the adoption without the adoption procedure. Of course, introducing this criminal liability in the article. 211a, it was necessary to clarify the meaning of the deadline for adoption. Therefore, Article 1 was also amended. 115, which contains so-called. A glossary of the terms used in the Penal Code. And it was assumed that adoption was the acquisition of parental authority over the child by a person other than the one from whom the child was born. When it comes to penalization and the scope of this criminalisation, such an act is punishable by imprisonment - I can't remember exactly at the moment, because there is a reference to other provisions - probably up to 2 years. There have also been amendments to the Code of Civil Procedure, for following this criminal regulation, which I mentioned earlier, and which, generally speaking, introduces responsibility for concealing the adoption before a court in order to achieve a property or personal benefit, there is a procedural requirement that in the appeal for an adoption proceedings, the court makes an instruction, i.e. an obligation to declare whether such adoption is made in order to achieve a property benefit. At the committee meeting, this law was fully accepted. There was no vote against and no one abstained. That's one thing. Is this second law, the amendment of the family and caring code, now under discussion? 'Cause I was gonna file two laws. She was here. Oh, that's what a friend of mine already said. She was. Yeah, yeah. There was a rapporteur. Okay. Your colleague referred it to me. I'm sorry, but I was outside at the time. Good. I'm so sorry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u47	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Well, thank you very much... Thank you. Mr. Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Yeah, I can see that. I invite Minister Michael Wójcik to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u48	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! This is an extremely important project. For four years we have been trying to change the law so that we can meet the expectations of society in terms of the welfare of the child, the welfare of children, the protection of the welfare of children. All of our projects served it - I think From the very beginning, when there was a ban on children only because of poverty, through the whole reform of the national law that we have carried out concerning the so-called. parental abductions in cross-border cases, by fighting for the identity of children in the international arena, which we have managed to do, or, for example, tightening penalties in the criminal code for pedophilia and banning the limitation of such offences. But this is, in my opinion, one of the most important laws, because this law affects a phenomenon which in no way should take place in the 21st century and which should never take place. We are talking about the phenomenon that concerns, Dear Sirs, the sale of children or the purchase of children, even through websites. Whole pages have been created on this subject, where without a big problem You can buy yourself a baby. Why? Because there's a loophole in the law that's been pointed out for years. For many, many years, advocates of civil rights, spokespersons of children's rights and various environments have been paying attention to this, as well as parliamentarians have discussed this issue - and Members and Senators - but somehow it has not been possible to find a formula in the form of a specific provision that would regulate the issue of the so-called. illegal adoptions. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Minister, I'm sorry. Gentlemen of the Senators, Senator Napieralski. Mr. Senator Napieralski... I'm sorry. I'm asking you to keep your conversations quiet. You're in the way, gentlemen. Excuse us. Because, as a rule, ladies and gentlemen, adoption is governed by the family and caring code. There are dozens of provisions that clearly define the procedure. She's tedious. And it is obvious that it must be tedious, because in order for someone to acquire the right to a child through adoption proceedings, he must undergo various kinds of tests, he must have certain qualifications, different requirements are laid down, various cases checked, also in terms of work, the possibility of creating a good future for the child, the opportunity to take care of the child's upbringing, as all should be done. There's also psychological research. That's why it's a tedious procedure. But that doesn't mean you can just skip the whole procedure and acquire rights to a child by using an institution of illegal adoption. It is illegal, i.e. without the adoption procedure or the use of the second element, the second area, so-called. the administrative road in which the institution of recognition of the child is used before the head of the civil status office. That is why we have decided, ladies and gentlemen, to prepare changes to 2 documents in the Criminal Code and in the Code of Civil Procedure. As far as the penalty provision is concerned, this is a provision that affects the issue of illegal adoptions. This is a provision that talks about organizing this practice, which is something that is broader, non-individualised, i.e. to fight through this provision with organized crime groups. Sanctions have been introduced here for five years of imprisonment. Because the problem was that if individual cases of this type, such cases In other words, when a child's birth mother decides to sell the child to a person who is not the biological father of the child, for a certain amount, the property or personal benefit Some have said that it is necessary to apply the human trafficking rule here, but trafficking in human beings... I'm not going to quote this recipe, although of course I have it here, but I'm just going to say that it's by nature that it's all about penallizing situations where you sell people for a particular purpose, i.e. exploitation, begging, prostitution, and an illegal adoption case is a completely different phenomenon. I know cases... This case came to me a few weeks ago, and not even a few, because literally two weeks ago, this is a case from Poznan where everyone actually confessed. And the birth mother, and the person who was to acquire the child for a specific amount of tens of thousands of PLN. The D.A. and everyone knew it was, but when the D.A.'s office applied for a precautionary measure in the form of a temporary arrest, the court refused to do so. He didn't agree, he just said that this situation wasn't criminalized. And we can't have... There shouldn't be anything like that in the law. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we have decided... I just want to be clear here. I don't blame the court. It's just a very serious problem facing prosecutors and judges. How great is this phenomenon? Well, the question of selling children can be a matter of many cases. The Ombudsman gave statistics: from 2 to 3 000 per year. Two to three thousand! The police have other statistics. Because illegal adoptions in our country are, you know, a gray area. The recognition in administrative mode is the situation when a person appears before the head of the civil status office, the biological mother of the child indicates her as a biological father, and this person says, "Yes, I am the biological father of the state office is in Poland, Ladies and gentlemen, annually over 100 thousand. But it's hard for us to say how many of these cases can be illegal adoptions. It means that such a person is not a biological father, and he is aware of it, which is very important, because then it is a deliberate crime. There are, however, websites, Ladies and Gentlemen, and it is very numerously visited by many people on which these sites appear. I'm going to read to you some of the following announcements: "I'm going to help a family who wants to have a baby, "21-year-old mom's going to help you become a parent," "I'm going to rent a tummy." I'm going to be a surrogate mother for the second time, and I'm going to be a surrogate mother for the fourth and last time, and I'm going to be a surrogate mother for the fourth time and I'm going to be a surrogate mother for the last time. Ladies and gentlemen, such sites are visited by many people. And even if we have this kind of website, this kind of adverts, and there is a specific money pointing out, a specific rate per child, we are not able to hold such a person liable. But now we're gonna be able to do it, thanks to this bill. And I want to tell you, because I just talked to the judges about the same page you have on the file. I will not advertise this website under any circumstances, but this is one of the pages, Ladies and Gentlemen, and many people visit this web site I just found this post. Today, Thursday, October 17th, 2019, 8.26: This department goes into liquidation! Reason: change of law. Ladies and gentlemen, well, you can say the essence of our business. That's why we work so that pathology just doesn't exist in life. This is the greatest joy for me that there is an announcement that says: we are eliminating this section, this side because there is a law that will threaten us with criminal liability for up to 5 years. And we provide for sanctions because a child can't be a commodity, can't be an object that can be bought, sold. This is an unacceptable situation. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are validating 2 situations. First of all, it's a situation where there's a transfer of property or personal benefit in a situation where there's an adoption procedure and someone like that is a property or a personal benefit... Yeah, well, the intention alone is enough to get this kind of behavior to go away. If this property or personal benefit appears in the background, i.e. The promise of a position for a child, because such a situation can also happen, and if this happens during the ongoing adoption proceedings, this situation is unacceptable, we are validising it. Unless, pending adoption, adoption, ladies and gentlemen, the person will admit to it and the court will assess whether the property benefit or the personal benefit that has been granted is indeed in breach of the interests of the child or the welfare of the child, which is the most important in this case. Why would you do that? Well, because there could be a situation in life, for example. He gave money for diapers, for a wheelchair. And the question is, if this is the case, do we have to deprive this person of the right to adopt a child or not? In our opinion, the family court will be the best judge of this. However, the condition is one: until the order is made... Of course, you will be instructed by the court, and that's why there are these changes in the civil procedure code, already in the call this person is instructed that there is such a provision and that it is not possible to do so, but if you declare that such a property or personal advantage has been granted, it will be judged by the family court. If this happens after the decision, then I believe it will. - No, it's obvious. The signs of this crime will be exhausted. And that's one situation. The second situation, ladies and gentlemen, is the one where we are faced with recognition, i.e. an administrative issue. Well, as I said, a biological mother appears, declares that a man is a biological father, they are aware that it is not so that they lie, the head of the civil office accepts this statement, and he actually has no tools, he can do nothing. If he has any doubts, he may go to the family court, but the case goes to the family court, which is actually based on the same documents, on the same evidence and can't do anything, practically. What's the deal with blocking these illegal adoptions? It's about not being a doorway, for example. For those who are just paedophiles, they're criminals. Because it's a simple way for a criminal to acquire rights to a child. Very simple to do, ladies and gentlemen. You come to the head of the civil status office, a person for money declares: yes, this is a biological father, he says: yes, I am a biological father, and then the birth mother renounces parental authority over the child in the following weeks, and the right to a child has a person who has nothing to do with this child, and she takes this child abroad. We've been looking into it. What's going on with this baby? Who's looking for this baby? For what purpose is this child exported? I would also like to categorically protest against the position of those who say: or maybe it is better, maybe it will go to a better environment, maybe to a family that will give it warmth, money. Yeah, it might be, but it might as well end up with a criminal. I'm not going to develop this subject, because everyone has an imagination, and they're going to imagine what's going on with this baby. We, as a country, cannot fail to respond to this, and from here we are also validising such situations. There can be no such situation, and that is why this law, which has only a few articles, has 4 articles, but is extremely important because it protects the welfare of children. The Code of Civil Procedure on Civil Procedure raises the issue of instruction in 2 cases. Well, if there's an adoption, it's already in the notice that you're talking about the contents of the recipe, and if there's a so-called one. a blank adoption, that's just a statement to the protocol. The family court accepts them if, in short, the person chooses to give the child up for adoption and does not want to know who this child will go to, it is one of the types of adoption. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u49	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see anyone willing, so thank you very much, Minister. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill will be held at the end of the meeting. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-eighth of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Polish Academy of Sciences and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1321 and the report of the committee In print No 1321 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Kazimierz Wiatr, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u50	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Commission for Science, Education and Sports of the Senate of the Republic of Poland today considered the Act on the amendment of the Act on the Polish Academy of Sciences and some other laws contained in print No. 1321. It is a very short law containing 5 articles, one of which concerns the date of entry into force This is 14 days from the date of the announcement. The most important content of this law is the introduction to the Act on the Polish Academy of Sciences, which allows... or classifys the basic salary of scientific staff in the scientific unit of the Polish Academy of Sciences, determines its height, saying that for the professor it is not less than 100% , for the professor of the institute, 83% , for the assistant 73% , and for the remaining 50% the remuneration laid down in the provisions issued on the basis of the relevant provisions of the law on higher education and science. In this way, academics working at the Polish Academy of Sciences are aligned with those working at universities, whose situation has already been regulated by the Law on Higher Education and Science mentioned by me. At the same time, the following articles include the fact that I now speak colloquially, colloquially, of the scientific staff of the Polish Academy of Sciences and of the staff of the Łukasiewicz Research Network, the privilege of recognizing their professional work as a creative activity of an individual character. It will therefore be covered by the Copyright and Related Rights Act. In this way, there is an equalisation of the differences which were unjustified, which were notified by the interested parties. It seems that ordering these matters is very necessary. The law was not controversial, it was adopted by the Senate Commission of Science, Education and Sports of the Republic of Poland unanimously, which I am reporting to you about at the moment. Please accept the bill without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u51	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Science and Higher Education has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? The meeting is attended by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, Mr Sebastian Skuza. Minister? Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, I do not see the need to speak. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No questions. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-nine of the agenda: the law amending the Anti-Money Laundering Act and financing terrorism. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1318 and the report of the committee In print No 1318 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Jack Włosowicz, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u52	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Today, 2 committees, the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions have discussed the bill presented. The purpose of the Act is to fully and correctly implement the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015 into the Polish legal order. What does this amendment introduce? The catalogue of entities authorised to exchange information between the institutions of the group shall be opened, as well as the exemption of entities operating in the field of the service keeping of accounts from the confidentiality of information to the financial analyst or to another competent authority. The Act also provides for the addition of provisions to prevent beneficiaries of real estate brokers and managers of such entities from being punished. The Act removes the gap in not taking into account in the existing system of the body authorised to impose administrative penalties on the institutions that have been audited and allows the designation of the National Tax Administration body to carry out tasks related to the Central Register of Recipients. During the committee meeting, the legislator discussed the situation regarding the article. 57 and put up some question marks. What were they? Revision of the article. The 57th Act was amended at the second reading in the Sejm. The Legislator presented an analysis from which This is in line with the case-law of the Constitutional Tribunal that the basic content, which is finally contained in the Act, should go the full legislative way, i.e. 3 readings, which is in line with the article. 118 and 119 constitutions. He also explained that in this case this full procedure of 3 readings had not been completed and that the changes had gone beyond the matter of the project which had been introduced to the Sejm. Mr Legislator also stressed that in the article. Article 57 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 is indicated as the date of entry into force of the day following the publication of the Act. Of course, there is a legal possibility that this will be on the next day, but specific conditions must be met. The legislator believes that this is not the case at this point. He therefore proposed an amendment. No one spoke in the discussion and we took the vote. The law was unanimously adopted without amendment. Both joint committees shall also request the Senate to accept this proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u53	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you, Senator. Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? The meeting is attended by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Leszek Skiba. Minister? No? Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Then I'll open the discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the 30th agenda item, the Act amending the Act on Public Offering and the Conditions of Introduction of Financial Instruments to Organized Trading, and on Public Companies and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1319 and the report of the committee In print No 1319 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Jack Włosowicz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u54	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Committee on Budget and Public Finance discussed this bill this morning. What's she bringing in? It implements 2 documents into the Polish system. First of all, it implements the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 May 2017 to encourage shareholders to engage in long-term activities. The second point is that the law is intended to apply the 2007 Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on a prospectus to be published in connection with the public offer of securities or the admission to trading on a regulated market. What are the elements of this amendment? First of all, it is intended to make it easier for companies to identify their shareholders, which will enable them to communicate directly with shareholders, to facilitate the exercise of their rights. It also lays down uniform requirements for the provision of information to stock storage or securities accounts providers originating in Union countries and third countries. In addition, it requires institutional investors and asset managers to develop and make public their involvement in the company and to inform them about the ways in which the policy is implemented. It also refers to the need for asset managers to provide information on whether and how this entity operates in the best long-term interest of the investor. The Act also regulates the principles of operation of the so-called. advisors to investors in connection with the vote. It also grants shareholders the right to vote on the remuneration policy of the company and on periodic reports on its implementation. In addition, it provides that the competent authority for monitoring compliance and compliance with the obligations set out in the Regulation will be the KNF. These are the issues that are being introduced. No legal opinion was delivered at the committee meeting. The legislator informed us that yesterday this law was adopted by the Sejm and because of its volume, i.e. 160 pages, there was not enough time to formulate detailed comments. We've come to the vote. There were three votes in favour. The bill was supported. And with such a request, the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances shall also address the High Senate.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u55	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you, Senator. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? I'm asking Minister Leszek Skiba again. No? Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Then I'll open the discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I'm calling a five-minute break. We have to wait for the Senator rapporteur. [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 17 to 14 minutes 23]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u56	We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the first agenda: the Double Taxation Dispute Resolution Act and the conclusion of prior price agreements. The text of the Act is contained in print No. 1326, and the report of the committee In print No 1326 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u57	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Today, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance has examined this law. It's so-called. European law, i.e. we implement it or we also implement European Union legislation. This law provides for a number of actions, including: introducing a new mechanism to ensure uniform rules for the settlement of disputes concerning double taxation of profits within the European Union. We are also introducing a judicial path for taxpayers. This law did not cause any controversy. Unanimously, it was unanimously adopted at the committee meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u58	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Would a government representative, Minister Tadeusz Kościński, like to speak on this matter? No. He's quitting. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the second agenda: the Act amending the excise duty Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1327 and the report of the committee In print No 1327 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Wiesław Dobkowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u59	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, a law amending the excise duty Act. The aim of the Act is to reduce excise duties on diesel-electric passenger cars, so-called. hybrid. According to the Act, the rate of excise duty on passenger cars will depend on the type of drive For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: and from the engine capacity. In the case of conventional combustion vehicles, the excise duty rate will be 3,1%, as has been the case so far. for cars with a capacity of up to 2 l, i.e. up to 2 000 cm3, and 18.6% for cars with a capacity of more than 2 000 cm3, i.e. 2 l. A new excise duty will be introduced, which will be half as low as 1,55% the tax base, which will include hybrid vehicles with a combustion engine capacity of 2 000 cm3 or lower, in which electricity is not accumulated by connecting to an external power source, i.e. so-called. cars without plugs. A new rate of excise duty, half lower, of 9,3% the tax base will include hybrid-powered cars with internal combustion engine capacity ranging from 2 000 cm3 to 3.5 000 cm3, those where electricity is not accumulated by connection to an external power source, and those where energy is accumulated by connection to an external power source, so called. Cars with plugs. This lower excise duty does not cover other hybrid passenger cars, i.e. cars with an internal combustion engine capacity exceeding 3,5 thousand cm3, or cars with an internal combustion engine capacity of 2 000 cm3 or less, where electricity is accumulated by connecting to an external power source. The last category of cars, i.e. with an engine capacity of up to 2 000 cm3, where electricity is accumulating, so-called. cars with a plug, according to the current legal status, are subject to total excise duty exemption until 1 January 2021 and therefore this law does not regulate it. She's going to cut excise duty by half, and since there's no excise duty here, the bill doesn't apply to this category of cars. This is the case: if the tax obligation arises before the date of entry into force of the Act, the existing provisions will apply. The Act will enter into force on the first day of the second month following the month of publication. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, this is so-called. the Parliamentary project, i.e. the group of Members reported the draft. At the committee meeting there were government representatives and a government representative said that there was no opinion on this bill. It's just that the government didn't give an opinion on the bill, but it didn't. I specifically asked you that. It is not against this law. After the discussion and after the Legislative Bureau made some comments... Senator Pekkis also commented on the fact that a gate is being created for certain vehicles, e.g. for those in which a hybrid engine, or electric one, can have much more power than an internal combustion engine, that there may be some gaps that someone can exploit. But after examining the case, I applied for this law without amendments, and this proposal was accepted, and it seems, by the votes of 6:5, it was not unanimous in any way. Mr Marshal, High Senate, on behalf of the 2 Joint Committees, I propose that this law be adopted without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u60	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Dowhan. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u61	Thank you for the vote. Why 50% , not entirely, if we are dealing with renewable energy sources? Can you tell me what excise duties apply in other countries of the European Union?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u62	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u63	Why 50% ? This was not simply said, but from the information received from the Ministry in response to the question asked by the senator about how the budget would be reduced... The Minister said that for the budget it would probably be neutral, because with such a reduction in the rates simply more cars will be imported, therefore in general due to excise duties so year by year... i.e. The import excise duty on these hybrid cars is increasing in value... Well, it's just that the revenue of the state budget is getting bigger. That's over 2 billion to almost 3 billion, there's been about 3 billion recently... What? Excise? ...3 billion PLN... Excise. Yeah, excise duty on that one. In any case, just about 1.5 billion PLN would be due to this relief less, but because there will certainly be more of these cars, it will probably be over and this change will be indifferent to the budget. I mean, that's the estimate, because it's not accurate data, but it's estimated that the change for the budget will be indifferent. And now, directly answering your question, I'm going to say that if these vehicles were completely exempt from excise duty, the reduction for the budget would certainly amount to 1.5 billion or more. That's probably the reason why he doesn't quit completely. I think the less excise duty on such cars, the better. Maybe not so much the amount of greenhouse gases is decreasing, because power generation is also associated with carbon dioxide and other gases, as smog is definitely decreasing, because in cities where there are many cars, there will just be fewer exhaust gases and cleaner air. You could say that this tax reduction is also kind of an investment in the environment. I believe that the aim should be to eliminate this tax entirely in the future. Now it is also a discussion whether the state will promote purely electric cars, or hybrid cars, or so-called. electromobility or hybrid cars. I personally believe... Well, I'm more comfortable with the hybrid, because there's no easy way to accumulate electricity at the moment. There is no possibility that for a longer time and a larger capacity to accumulate, and this is embarrassing, because the charging time of batteries simply makes it impossible to e.g. quickly recharge them and drive further, and the range of these electric cars is limited. Hybrid cars have no such restrictions. The most important thing is that when you drive traffic in a big city, you can completely turn off the combustion engine and not burn the fuel, just drive on the electric motor and drive on the road on the combustion engine. That's all I can say.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u64	Are there any more questions for the Senator rapporteur? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. Thank you. The bill was introduced by Members. Does a government representative, Minister Tadeusz Kościński, wish to speak on this matter? Thank you very much. You don't speak. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. You're asking Senator Dowhan a question. Minister to the bleachers, please. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u65	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, such a question: can you tell us exactly what the excise receipts on cars above 2 000 cm3 were? That's my first question. My second question is: why doesn't you go on the way out of excise duty? It does not apply in most neighbouring countries or in all countries, and if it occurs, it is very small, and that is why many cars are registered simply abroad, because in this way costs are avoided, and sometimes not small, registration with us.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u66	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u67	Thank you. I'll give you the answer exactly what the excise receipts are, because I'm not gonna give you that kind of information. And as for registration, if I understand correctly... When you register a car in Poland, you have to pay an excise duty here, so someone like that just a few weeks ago. whether he can use a car in Poland for months without registration. So this excise duty will be in Poland sooner or later. I don't know if I understood you correctly.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u68	Are there any more questions for the Minister? No. Thank you, Minister. I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Dowhan. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Dowhan signed up for the discussion. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u69	Dear Marshal, Minister! The subject of excise duty is once again rolling. Two years ago, it was close to changing excise legislation, and this has been irregular for many years. Actually, it's an excise duty. According to my information, the Minister may deny It was introduced when Daewoo entered Poland, so light years ago, you could say, and it was only because Daewoo wanted to have a patent, exclusive to the production of his cars, wanted to somehow reduce the inflow of other cars from the outside. This excise duty has survived until today and is the highest in the countries of the European Union. I do not know the exact data, but I do know that excise duty does not exist in the Union at all, and if it does, it is in another tax. Like I said, two years ago, it was close to changing the rules. Too bad Senator Pekkis isn't in Senator Pakkis' room because I know he piloted it. I think we should go in a completely different direction, because it's not about these cars being expensive. It must be borne in mind that the State not only earns on excise duty, it also earns VAT, it also earns on taxes paid by dealers, paid on various types of communication services, so the revenue from this is high. This number, these 3 billions given by your Senator, something doesn't suit me very well. I don't believe that's the tax revenue at this height, but I don't want to argue. I also asked a question about registration of cars outside the country. Today, when we have economic freedom, many companies use it, so we see cars with registrations from Germany on the streets of Polish cities, where this excise duty does not exist, and you can deduct VAT, which is much lower there. And lately it is very fashionable to register operators and cars in Slovakia and in the Czech Republic. I think the Ministry of Finance should notice that. It's like... for many years, there's been a public hearing about these machines that are playing, located in gas stations and all kinds of basements. On the one hand, people played there without paying tax to the state, and on the other hand there were online games Because these pages weren't blocked, the money was coming out because it was free to pay with cards. I know this is over, this is one of the great successes that we've managed to limit. I don't quite understand this 50% reduction in excise duty. Influences the parliamentary project, there is a 50% reduction. So what's that supposed to do? That suddenly cars will start to be sold or bought in a different form than before? And so this excise duty is 9.3% plus the limitation by the state, it seems to me, the good records that have been in place so far in terms of entrepreneurs and the purchase of passenger cars, the limitation to 150 thousand possibilities to write it back and put it into business costs, that's a little... It is very unfair and it gives rise to all kinds of combinations connected with the acquisition of cars by companies. We have very high costs: 23% the tax we can't deduct, and it was 18.6% excise duties so far. I'd go towards... If we are to take care of ecology, then I would go in such a direction that excise duty or other fees related to ecology are imposed on cars that are downloaded to Poland and do not meet any standards that are constantly raised, not in the direction of charging modern cars that are powered from other sources, renewable sources, such as hybrid, electric cars, and maybe in a moment such ones will appear on solar batteries. So, on the one hand, it's a one-time bow in the form of a 50% reduction in excise duty. I think it's a good move, that's not enough movement. And I don't know why he's supposed to serve, because you have to lean over excise duty, over cars, over ecology to a wider extent. This cannot be an act like today that the Minister represents only the government side, and the government side has added no project to it, nor is there a parliamentary side that introduced this project for the last session of the Sejm, although we had four years to do so. The problem of ecology and cars is a broad issue, especially as we have very strong competition today in the European Union. I would therefore opt for the Ministry to look at what solutions are in other countries, so as to simply find a golden measure and apply it also in Poland. Then he will not tire of Poles constantly changing, because I... The Minister is a young man, but I remember how cars could be imported per kilo, and then you had to torture Poles. Because it was necessary to remove the front or rear axle, i.e. to open a piece of suspension, and then it was so-called. The folding and you could... And we know that everyone wanted to buy cheaper and save money. So Poles in ditches, in the woods, started these cars to turn them abroad. Then there were some strange bars introduced in the case of passenger cars. In my company alone, I had a couple of these cinquecento trucks, it was a cinquecento truck with a grate in the back, because they could separate the package. Yeah, it looked funny. However, there was still a search for good solutions on the one hand and on the other. In the case of entrepreneurs, such cars were used for representatives and then they could deduct the tax, include all of this into the costs... But it looked funny from the outside. Then there was the Lisak pattern, and the calculations were necessary, and again the manufacturers sat down and changed the parameters of the cars to match it all. I think that simple solutions are the best, simple solutions consisting of giving you the possibility of deduction, registration... giving you the greens, the benefits associated with renewable energy sources, when it comes to cars and the safety packages that are in cars. And I think these are the arguments that you should consider in the ministry, so that people who buy cheaper cars know that they are green, that they get good solutions in terms of safety. These are basic trends today, in this direction we should go, not towards a one-off reduction in excise duty by 50%. And you leave it very high, because it's about 10%. I don't think there's any European country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u70	Thank you, Senator. Would any of you like to take the floor in the discussion? No one's checking in. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Would a government representative like to comment on the senator's statement? No. Thank you. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the third agenda: the Law amending the Law on the acquisition of a professional title in the fields applicable to health care. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1323, and the report of the Commission In print No 1323 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Dorota Czudowska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u71	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present a report on the proceedings of the Health Committee which took place this morning. We have been working on a law amending the Law on obtaining the title of specialist in the fields applicable to health care. This is an amendment to the Act of 24 February 2017 on the acquisition of a professional title in the fields applicable to health care. It is about excluding from its regulations persons engaged in medical professions for whom the rules for obtaining a professional title are laid down by the rules governing the pursuit of these professions. In the Basic Law, i.e. that of 2017, the provision of paragraph 1 has been deleted. Article 2 1. The aim of repealing this provision is to enable medical professionals, such as doctors, but also nurses, pharmacists, physiotherapists or laboratory diagnostics. To obtain the title of specialist in the areas applicable to health care. The acquisition of a professional title in certain areas may not be available to them at present. The obstacle is precisely the lack of a specific area in the regulation of specialisation or the absence of an accredited body to carry out specialization training. It follows from the justification of the Act that this applies to specializations such as: psychotherapy of children and adolescents, as well as psychosexology, the catalogue of areas defined for the specialization of doctors and dentists does not include such a field of specialization for them. There was a brief discussion about this bill. The Minister said that for many years there have been signals from different backgrounds, that the lack of access to the services provided by the specialists I mentioned here, the lack of medical personnel makes it urgent to create additional regulations so that it can be specialized, I could say so a little colloquially, a little faster path, so that there is better access to the benefits in this area and that patients and those in need can be given much more. On the committee we adopted this law without amendment. The law is compatible with European Union law. It raises no legislative objections. It may be worth adding that in the Sejm it was adopted by a majority of 423 votes with 2 votes against, 3 abstentions. On behalf of the Senate Health Committee, I ask the High House to adopt this law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u72	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Radziwill, you're welcome. In the middle of a discussion. Uh-huh, in the discussion. There are no questions to ask. Thank you, senator, for your report. Thank you very much, thank you. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Is the representative of the government, Minister Józef Rzczurek-Żelazko, willing to take the floor on this matter? No. Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question, Minister? No one's checking in. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Radziwiłł will speak. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u73	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Please be patient, I would just like to say that the bill is good and in some sense sanctiones a certain reality, a reality more complicated than the existing regulations, namely that many doctors, many nurses, midwives, many pharmacists, physiotherapists and other medical professionals currently work in areas where the professional regulations assigned to these professions do not provide, e.g. in the widely understood psychiatry, psychotherapy, but also in medical physics, medical engineering, the pharmaceutical industry, and these are all the directions of specialization which provide for the provisions implementing the mother's law, which we are changing today. Allowing such formal state confirmation of the qualifications actually held by these professionals, and I remind you that certificates in this respect are issued by the Centre for Medical Examinations, is good. This also sort of sets out the situation in terms of standards, e.g. requirements. The National Health Fund in relation to healthcare providers who legitimise themselves with the work of people currently performing certain activities so somewhat informally. So this regulation is desirable of all measures. It is also a good thing that those who wish to confirm their skills with such a certificate, such specialisation, will not have to complete their training course, but will have the opportunity to recognise the existing professional or scientific achievements in this area. In this way, these people will be able to take the exam and obtain a certificate faster. Since I have not spent all my time, Mr Marshal, I would like to take advantage of the fact that these are my last days in this House, to give a very cordial thanks to Mr Marshal - to the entire Senate Bureau; to the Minister The Ministry of Health, as well as the staff of the Senate Chancellery present here. I'd like to thank all the Senate staff. I would like to thank the senators present for their cooperation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u74	Thank you, Senator. Are there any further requests for discussion? No one's checking in. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item thirty-four of the agenda: the Law amending the Law - Educational Law and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1322, and the report of the Commission − in print No 1322 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Józef Zając, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u75	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! On behalf of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, I would like to present a draft law on amending the law - Educational law and some other laws. The draft law provides for the introduction into the legal system of rules setting out the criteria for determining the costs of the child's and the carer's journey, the costs which are reimbursed to carers who carry disabled children or other persons entitled to school or kindergarten. The result of the present law is the implementation of the amount. This amount is expressed in the bill proposal by a mathematical formula, quite well constructed. It is proposed that this formula be included in the Act. The result of the proposed law will be the amount that I told you about, returned by the local government unit to parents in connection with the costs incurred in delivering the child to school. In this way, the order of the Constitutional Court of 17 October 2017 will be implemented. I therefore request the adoption of a uniform, attached draft law amending the law − Educational law, contained in print No. 761 S, and a draft resolution on bringing this to the vote... I mean, on behalf of the joint committees, I'm asking for the bill to be adopted without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u76	Thank you, Senator. Currently, the senators can report from the place of the inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the Senate. The Minister for National Education has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative, Minister Marzena Machalek, wish to speak on this matter? Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. I'm opening a discussion. I'm informing your senators that no one has signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the fifth agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Informationization of Activities of Entities performing public tasks and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1316 and the report of the committee In print No 1316 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Robert Gawl, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u77	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Report on today's committee meeting. The meeting was attended by Mr Karol Okoński, State Secretary at the Ministry of Digitization, who presented the principles of the law in 3 points. Firstly, it is about creating a system of state registers, i.e. forms of records. The introduction of the system is intended to address the problem of the lack of identity of data processed in different public registers. Secondly, the Act introduces the legal basis for the functioning of the register of contact details of natural persons equivalent to electronic telephone books. Thirdly, the aim is to create a legal basis for making available a dedicated electronic service enabling citizens to self-retrieve a copy of the civil status act in electronic form directly from the civil status register. The senators did not participate in the discussion. The Legislator had some minor legislative remarks. Two amendments were rejected. The Senate committee unanimously recommends the adoption of the bill. That's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u78	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u79	Mr. Marshal, I would just like to thank all the ladies and gentlemen of the senators for their four years of cooperation, of course I would also like to thank the staff of the Senate Office. And wish those who have entered the Senate and will be here in the next term of office to be able to cooperate with one another and that the Senate be able to maintain the moderation and restraint which is assigned to this House forever and ever. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u80	Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Digitisation has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Does a government representative, Mr Karol Okoński, wish to speak on the bill presented? No, thank you. Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Are there any such questions? No one's checking in. I'm opening a discussion. Has anyone signed up for the discussion? Nobody came forward for discussion. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the sixth agenda: the Law on the amendment of the Industrial Property Law. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1332, and the report of the Commission In print No 1332 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Władysław Komarnicki, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u81	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. It was a government bill amending the Industrial Property Law. According to the explanatory memorandum, the Act deals with the elimination of environmental errors related to industrial property related to the implementation of Directive 2004/48/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 on the enforcement of intellectual property rights and the adaptation to the Convention on the Grant of European Patents, drawn up in Munich on 5 October 1973, and the Patent Cooperation Agreement, drawn up in Washington on 19 June 1970. If you don't mind, I'd like to introduce you to the calendar. On July 9, the project entered the Sejm. On 17 July, he was referred to the first reading of the Sejm. 9/11 was the first reading at the Sejm meeting. The committee's report was on 15 October. The rapporteur was, I remind you, Mr Meysztowicz. On 16 October there was a second reading in the Sejm, the same on 16 October at the eighty-sixth meeting was the vote on the bill. The Act came to us on 17 October 2019 and at the meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on this matter all voted in favour of the Act without amendments. Thank you very much for the brief but very substantive discussion with the Minister at the meeting on this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u82	Thank you, Senator. Currently, the senators can report from the place of the inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would a government representative, Mr Marcin Ociepa, like to speak on this matter? I'm at your disposal. We also have the President of the Patent Office present, Minister Edyta Demby-Siwek. Do you wish to speak on this matter? If not, thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of questioning to a government representative. Are there any such questions? No one's checking in. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the seventh agenda: the Law amending the Law on the Prevention of Pollution from Ships and the Law on Maritime Safety. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1324 and the report of the committee In print No 1324 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill that entered the Senate yesterday was being examined today at the meeting of the Joint Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Infrastructure. This is a law that should, in principle, be adopted after the adoption of the law, which will be referred by a Hamerian colleague, because we first need to adopt this directive and then the consequences of this directive. But I think we'll agree and it won't be inappropriate if I make this bill very briefly. The Act amending the Law on the Prevention of Pollution from Ships and the Law on Maritime Safety amends the previous Act and clarifies certain provisions. Namely introduces a new definition of pollution, introduces a ban on the discharge of unclean waters, ballast waters, some sediments, unless they are cleaned, but in this case this law also specifies how to deal with them. It shall specify the type of documents which authorise the exemption of vessels from certain activities which it sets out. It is permissible for ships to be inspected by the State Sanitary Inspection so that not only physical, mechanical, but also biological pollutants are introduced into marine waters. Finally, the Act sets out penalties for non-compliance with certain rules. The law is to enter into force at the beginning of the coming year, except for two paragraphs which come a little later, the last one probably in March. Following a very short discussion, the Commission unanimously decided to pass the law without amendments to the Senate and requested the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-17-senat-85-3.u84	Thank you, Senator. Currently, the senators can report from the place of the inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Are there any such questions? None of you volunteered. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Minister Anna Moscow like to speak on this bill? No. Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I declare adjournment until 9:00 a.m. tomorrow. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 15 minutes 16]]
