ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-04-senat-80-1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen! I open the ceremonial 80th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term, convened to celebrate the 30th anniversary of the first free elections to the Senate. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] Everyone, please rise. Please play the hymn. [[Everybody up.]] [[Military Orchestra National Anthem Game]] I appoint Senator Rafał Ambrozik and Senator Robert Dowhan to be the secretaries of the sitting. Welcome to the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Andrzej Duda. [[Applause]] I cordially welcome the visitors to today's meeting of the Marshal of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, Mr Marek Kuchciński, [[Applause]] ...President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Mateusz Morawiecki, [[Applause]] ...President of the Constitutional Court, Ms Julia Przyłębska, [[Applause]] ...President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, Mr Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, [[Applause]] A child's attorney, Mr. Nicholas Pawlak. [[Applause]] Welcome very cordially to the Speakers of the Senate of the previous term: Mrs Alicia Grześkowiak... [[Applause]] ...marshal of the Senate of the Fourth term of office; Mr Longin Pastusiak, Marshal of the Fifth term of office; [[Applause]] ...Mr. Bogdan Borusewicz, Marshal of the Senate of the 6th, 7th and 8th term of office. [[Applause]] Welcome to His Eminence Card. Kazimierz Nycz. [[Applause]] I cordially welcome the apostolic nuncio in Poland, His Excellency Archpa Salvatore Pennacchio. [[Applause]] I would like to welcome all the senators of the previous term. I particularly welcome the senators present today and the term of the reborn Senate. [[Applause]] I welcome the members of the Council of Ministers present today with the Deputy Prime Ministers, representatives of the state authorities and all other guests. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, today is the 30th anniversary of the first free elections to the Senate. Since that memorable date in the restored House of Higher Education, there has been a wonderful, well deserved person for the homeland. A lot of them... I'd suggest you stay standing still. Many of them are no longer among us. Please rise and celebrate with a minute of silence the memory of the late Senators of the Third Republic. [[A moment of silence]] Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will now read the resolution which they adopted in the same way as the Sejm and the Senate of the Republic of Poland to celebrate the anniversary of today's events. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the 40th anniversary of the first pilgrimage of John Paul II to Poland and on the 30th anniversary of the rebirth of the Senate of the Republic of Poland and partially free elections to the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. Let your Spirit descend and renew the face of the earth. Pope John Paul II cried 40 years ago, on June 2, 1979, during his first Holy Mass celebrated on Polish soil, on pl. Winnings in Warsaw. These words fell deep into the collective memory of Poles, becoming a signal for extraordinary changes. Awakened as a Nation by John Paul II, we have found the strength to build the sphere of freedom in the sacrificial activity of the democratic opposition and in the great movement of Solidarity against violence and lies. Towards independence, greeting the Pope during his subsequent pilgrimages, the Poles cried out: "There is no freedom without Solidarity. Implementation of this password became possible when the foundations of the communist system began to crumble in Poland and other countries of Eastern Europe, and finally in the Soviet Union. 30 years ago, on June 4, 1989, Poles were able for the first time, although still in a more plebiscite form than in a real democratic form, to confirm their independence aspirations in an election act. At that time, the Solidarity Camp won a spectacular victory in the free elections to the Senate, and in the contractual elections to the Sejm he won all the mandates for genuine competition. The defeat of Communists in the elections on 4 June 1989 opened the way for the reconstruction of democracy and the restoration of Poland's sovereignty, and then, in the autumn of 1989, for democratic changes in the countries of the Soviet sphere of influence. On the anniversary of the elections, the Sejm and the Senate commemorate events that led to Poles' dreams of freedom and independence. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. The resolution of the Sejm was signed by Marshal Marek Kuchciński, and the Senate resolution was signed by me. [[Applause]] Please take the floor of the President. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-04-senat-80-1.u2	Dear Marshal of the Sejm! Dear Marshal of the Senate, Dear Marshals! Dear Prime Minister, Dear Members, Dear Senators, lead senators of the first term of the reborn Senate! All the distinguished guests have arrived! Ladies and gentlemen of the President! All Great Ladies and Gentlemen! We are certainly experiencing days which, sending us back to the past, have a very special dimension from the point of view of the history of the Republic of Poland and our present. It is impossible to break the words of 1979, spoken in the square of the Marshal of Piłsudski by the Holy Father, St. John Paul II, crying out for the freedom and transformation of his homeland, for the restoration of the face of this land by the Lord God, which all those who immediately understood these words seemed to be a miracle, of course. And what happened in 1980, a year later, i.e. the birth of the world's largest social movement, which was Solidarity, as well as the struggle of the 1980s, very often suffering and death, and finally victory, victory in 1989, which in such a special way emancipated just here in the reborn Senate, fully elected in free elections, in a sense unlike the Sejm, to which the elections were not entirely free. But What needs to be stressed very strongly and what I stress in every speech when I talk about it It was a great victory for Poles, because although the elections were shaped just so that those to the Sejm were not fully free, Poles showed that they strongly rejected communism and Communists. By rejecting the national list, they rejected that system and that power. The representatives of Moscow here in Warsaw. It was a great triumph. It was a triumph that changed the world, because it was thanks to those elections and thanks to the attitude of Poles throughout Central Europe there was a transformation of the system and the Berlin Wall fell, and as a result also the Soviet Union broke down. It was that attitude which I am sure caused this, that brought out these words mentioned here, that the call of the Holy Father gave rise to the great transformation of Europe, which some later called the Fall of the Peoples. Today, after 30 years, we meet in the Senate of the Republic of Poland, which in some sense has always been the emanation of the free Republic, with its seven hundred years history, beginning with the Royal Council, through all the years of our history, when it always returned when Poland was free, and disappeared when it was not free. He returned after the partitions, in 1921, along with the constitution, and later disappeared in 1946 after a fraudulent, faked referendum by the Communists. Then it was a visible sign of how Poland was plundered and de facto destroyed by aliens who started by cheating and, you can say, robbing Polish society. In 1989, the Senate returned as the emancipation of freedom already mentioned. And it must be said, ladies and gentlemen, that this return was extremely symbolic. For when we look at the Senate as an institution of a historical or even ancient nature, it is impossible to look at ancient Rome and the Senate there, described as well as the whole system of Rome this famous, visible in so many places, engraved in stone with the abbreviation SPQR: Senate Populusque Romanus and Roman people. The Senate and the Roman people as one people as the one who expresses his will, and the Senate as the elite of this society, by whom they have been chosen and thus emanating from his will, and at the same time being the embodiment of wisdom. And sometimes, when some people smile about the Senate with a smile today, I want to say with all responsibility: yes! In my experience as Deputy Minister of Justice, then Minister, Undersecretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic, Professor Lech Kaczyński After all, the senator of the first term of office, that historic reborn Senate And in my experience as a Member of the Sejm, and I was able to observe the Senate's deliberations as to whether, when I was a Member of the European Parliament, I know that the Senate has always been the important place where it was quieter, calmer, though there have been very intense debates here. After all, difficult questions were asked here too, after all, here the draft laws and other acts were discussed. But it has always been this place, this House, where there has actually been reflection on what has been proposed, what has been adopted in the Seym, whether it is good or whether these solutions are thought out or whether this leads to good solutions. After all, the Senate often performs this extremely important function of making the last correction, making changes to those proposals that are being prepared in the Sejm. This is an extremely important role of the Senate. I want to stress this very strongly. The role of the Senate is extremely useful. What is sometimes adopted in the Seym in a storm, in a discussion whether, as it may be said, even in a political battle, here in the Senate, can be still with a little breath, calmly thought out, analysed and when necessary corrected. And the Sejm very often also accepts these amendments after its own reflection. So that it is certainly still a great role of the Polish Senate. But today, when we're talking about 30, we're looking at what's been going on for 30 years. I have no doubt that during these 30 years the Senate has played a very important role in the Republic of Poland, just as the body of legislation, has played. But he also played an important role in other fields. He also played an important role in supporting Poles and Polonia abroad. It's a great role the Senate played and played all the time. Extremely important and extremely out of bounds seen. Our compatriots are looking at Poland changing. Can we today appreciate the changes that have taken place over the past 30 years? Of course, no doubt the balance is positive. The overall balance shows Poland completely different from the one it was in 1989, shows Poland truly free, shows Poland truly independent, shows Poland truly sovereign, shows Poland much wealthier than the one we were dealing with in 1989. I was looking with a smile because I was 17 then and I was hoping that we'd be West very soon. I was even hoping it might be a matter of five years. Reasonable people said 10, maybe 15 years. And look, it's been 30 years, and we're still chasing the West. Luckily, we're catching up with him. Especially the good changes from the last 4 years, significant improvement of the standard of life of the Polish society, the introduction of pro-family programs of the Polish society is very conducive to improving the quality of life of Poles. It is a great satisfaction to me that it is appreciated by people. This is appreciated by people perhaps especially because, as I said, we have been striving for Western Europe all these 30 years and we are just starting to catch up with them right now. Because many mistakes have also been made. And certainly in these 30 years many people have been harmed. I am thinking here, for example, of those who suffered the liquidation of state farms in the early 1990s and who, therefore, fell into poverty. Many people lost meaning in life because no alternative was created for them, and it was done completely without any reflection on their future fate and what would happen to them. These were errors in some sense of brutal capitalism and liberalism, which then snuck into Poland. Unfortunately, many businesses have fallen over the years or been stolen and many people have lost their jobs. And it is also a question of changing the Polish economy and Polish industry, building, as we say today, industry and innovative economy. 'Cause we really need it. Could it have been better? Ladies and gentlemen, as a man who is 47 years old today, and at the time he was 17, I can say this: it certainly could have been done better. Were there mistakes? Yeah, there were mistakes. But, after all, I am grateful and I would like to mention with all gratitude all those who stood unselfishly in 1989 to recreate Poland truly democratic, free Poland, sovereign Poland, independent Poland. I am looking today, ladies and gentlemen, with a little smile on how, especially post-communists, former participants of the communist regime, teach us what democracy means. It's a bit of a giggle of history. It's true, isn't it? You can laugh. But the truth is, we actually built it. And every subsequent election that has taken place in the Republic of Poland since that year, 1989, it is shown. I can only repeat one more time: I would like attendance to be more and more, because increasing attendance shows the strengthening of democracy, is probably the best testimony and probably the best emanation of democracy. In this connection, I thank our fellow countrymen once again for being so wide in comparison with what was before, participating in the last elections to the European Parliament. I wish you senators good luck in the further work of the Senate. Personally, I must say, I am in favour of the Senate being in our country. As I said, I think it is very much needed as a Chamber of Reflection, just as a Chamber of such a calmer discussion. Can anything be changed in the construction of the Polish Senate? Maybe you can. Perhaps you can introduce former presidents of the Republic of Poland into the Senate, perhaps you can introduce some representation of local government to the Senate. I ask you senators to discuss these changes calmly. They would, of course, also require changes to the constitution. I'm smiling here because I think that even though we have a constitution, we could always improve it and have it better. There are a lot of these constitutional proposals. Thank you for the Senate on these constitutional issues, including recently I think he's been discussing it in the last few years. Every discussion on improving the Polish regime is an important discussion and is a discussion of value, especially in the Senate, which, as I said, is a chamber of reflection, of calm reflection, and which we often need in the Republic of Poland very much. But first of all, I want to thank the Senate for building a community, also through the cooperation I mentioned and, you can say, care for Poles abroad. Thank you, senators, because it has always been peacefully implemented here. And I'm asking you to keep it going. Thank you, Mr. Marshal, for working with the presidents of the Republic of Poland in this regard, including me. I would like to stress that this cooperation between the Senate of the Republic and the office of the head of state it is in the field of support for Poles and Poles outside the borders that is very good, I would even say that it may be perfect. I'm very grateful for that. I think we should take care of that. This also shows whether the Republic is a solid state, whether the Republic is a democratic state. Whether we remember our compatriots living outside the country, whether we remember our history, has always been very important to the Senate. I want to wish the Senate every success for the next thirty years in the free, sovereign, independent Republic. I ask the Senate to build it and to strengthen it with all its strength. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-04-senat-80-1.u3	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you again. And please take the floor of Marek Kuchciński, Marshal of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-04-senat-80-1.u4	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Republic of Poland! Mr. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Marshals! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! 30 years ago, elections took place in our country, which after long years of communist enslavement and lack of full sovereignty of the state became a breakthrough in Poland's regaining freedom. We feel the joy and pride of the victory at that time, and although then the independence of the Republic was still very foggy, it is today that we can see clearly how great the importance of these elections was. It is important to remind everyone that the course of these elections was a complete surprise to the communist authorities, who fully controlled the mass media, had huge material facilities and were able to quickly run thousands of trained officers to carry out their own campaign. These were only partially free elections, because the so-called agreements. The Round Table has established that for the opposition there will be 35% tickets to the Sejm, but in the case of the Senate, we were able to conduct fully free elections. And that's what happened. We have chosen all our Members under this agreement, and the Senate has become completely free from the representatives of communist power. Contrary to expectations, the independence environments focused on election time in the Civil Committees, Solidarity managed to create organizational facilities from scratch, submit candidates to parliament and carry out a winning election campaign in the short term. At the time, the public strongly supported the candidates issued by the Citizens' Committees and therefore supported reforms and the rejection of the totalitarian system. It was the beginning of big changes. What was impossible became possible. Events in Poland have become an impulse to change in many neighbouring countries, and have also affected the break-up of the Soviet Union. They were created in a relatively short time adjacent to Poland free states: Lithuania, Latvia, Belarus, Ukraine. The Berlin Wall fell and German unification took place. But it must be remembered that the June elections were preceded by heroic independence breaks in our country. These elections were at the same time a return to our great traditions of parliamentarianism reaching out to their roots of the 15th century and even earlier times. The Constitution is a special achievement of which on 3 May. The road to the June elections in Poland since the end of World War II has been long, lasting decades. It was full of sacrifices and widespread struggles with totalitarian power, often bloody. Poles never accepted the loss of independence, knowing that the Polish People's Republic is a country with limited sovereignty. This situation led to a series of independence protests. Between 1944 and 1953, after the action of the National Army, there was an anti-communist uprising. In 1956 the events described by historians as Poznan June took place. It was not only the first general strike of workers on a large scale, but also a local uprising in which dozens of people died and which accelerated the events of the Polish October. At that time, Hungary supported us in solidarity, also paying tribute to blood. Then in March 1968 in Warsaw and other cities there were other events and anti-communist speeches, first students and intelligence, supported in many Polish cities also by high school youth, and then by other social groups. Heroic acts were carried out, like the self-burning of Richard Sivet. Two years later there were strikes and fights of workers in Gdynia, Gdańsk, Szczecin and Elbląg. Other anti-communist raids broke out in 1976 in Radom and Ursus. Against the background of these protests and struggles, the choice of cardinals became a great hope. Charles Wojtyla to the Capital of Peter on 16 October 1978 Since the beginning of his great pontificate, John Paul II has influenced peaceful changes in Poland. The first pilgrimage of the Holy Father to his homeland in June 1979 and those memorable words that we should always remember. A year later, in August 1980, there were memorable strikes on the Coast, and soon soon throughout the country. As a result, a trade union was established, which was independent of the communist authorities. Soon it became one of the main centers of opposition against communist power. It has grown into a powerful organization of 10 million members and has started another intense freedom activity and a democratizing state life. On 13 December, martial law was introduced throughout the country. In fact, this coup was directed primarily against opposition activists, including members of the "Solidarity." There have been several years of repression, called by historians the Polish-Jaruzel War. An army, militia, and secret service were set up to fight the nation. With more than a million people. Thousands of people were arrested, including leaders of the 'Solidarity' who were interned. Those who tried to organize protests of workers and students were subjected to severe repression, people were killed during the pacification of workplaces, e.g. in the mine of the Uncle. The issue of opposition magazines, as well as the activities of all unions, has been suspended. Despite this, the resistance of society continued and increased. We must always remember that. The opposition activity continued until 1989. She was marked by many victims, such as the martyr's death of the chaplain of Solidarity, Fr. George Popieluszko. As a result of constant social resistance and the deteriorating economic situation of the country, the communist authorities decided to engage in talks with the opposition within the framework of the so-called. Round Table, which resulted in among others. the above-mentioned arrangements for parliamentary elections. Ladies and gentlemen, all these facts must now be recalled in order to highlight once again the great breakthrough of the June elections in 1989. Our meeting today is a celebration of Poland's freedom. It's a big celebration of democracy. Today Poland is safe. Like other Central and Eastern European countries, we can only exist under conditions of mutual trust, close cooperation and solidarity. Today many countries in our part Europe is united by the European Union and the North Atlantic Alliance. June elections, starting a beautiful, wonderful and above all bloodless Fall of the Peoples in Europe, changed the face of Poland and the whole continent. Then the Cold War was put to an end, the iron curtain was finally broken, and the Yalta order was destroyed. The evil empire, the Soviet Union, fell apart and it was an irreversible process. I am pleased that today we are celebrating this great celebration of democracy on the 30th anniversary of extremely important events for Poland and Europe. I wish the Senate every success in working for the Republic. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-04-senat-80-1.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Now please take the floor of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. You're welcome, Prime Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-04-senat-80-1.u6	Dear Mr. President, Dear Marshal of the Sejm! Dear Marshal of the Senate, The Marshals of the Senate of the previous term of office! Dear President, Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of the President! Dear Senators of the previous term and all Parliamentarians! Dear Ministers and Dear Visitors! The Poles then, 30 years ago, sort of transferred their desire for freedom to the Senate, their desire for democracy, because the elections to the Senate, negotiated at the Round Table, were free elections. In fact, they are fully free, although you have to keep in mind the huge disparities in access to the media, in the knowledge of art and in the techniques of access to society. These disparities have been made known, unfortunately, very quickly, shortly after these first partly democratic elections. Although always, as I say, it seems to me that almost oxymoron also made themselves known during many later periods, subsequent elections, subsequent decades of the Third Republic. However, after years, although I myself was very critical at the time and towards the Round Table, and the elections on 4 June, I see the great value of these events. Indeed, I can admit that they were an extremely important step on the road to freedom, free elections, fully free elections, which took place two and a half years later, in 1991. As a result, the first government was elected by Parliament, elected in completely free elections, the government of Prime Minister Jan Olszewski. This government is connected to another 4th of June, which we should also remember. And that is why our history, the history of the Third Republic, is so twisted, not easy. The other 4th of June, the one from 1992, was very sad 4th of June. But I'll get back to that June 4th, 1989. At the time, as a young boy, I was actually on the other side of the barricade, but, as I said, I see the value of those conversations. I've been against it. Because they were a stage. Very rightly, Mr Marshal Marek Kuchciński just stressed that this was a stage, preceded by many other stages of the struggle for freedom. You can't abstract them, you can't separate one from the other. You can't look at the date of 4 June 1989 as the only date that led us to freedom because you didn't. We have been led to freedom by the great efforts that Marshal Kuchciński spoke about. We were also led to freedom by the Solidarity, above all by the Solidarity movement, which stimulated the desire for freedom in 1980 and 1981, a desire that could not be extinguished later. And as I look at what is happening today, through the prism of the preceding 40 years, not only 30 years, I see just certain time intervals: this Spirit has come down and renewed the face of the earth, 14 months later there was solidarity, then the martial law and the suppression of our desire for freedom, which, however, all the time, like this Mickiewicz lava under a hard shell, was hot, could not be extinguished, and in 1989 it was known of itself. But let me do it. It's the same thing about jumping to modern times. 'Cause 1979 and 1980, then 1989 and these days. Although I do not want, God forbid, to enter into any political polemics, it binds the stimulation of certain deep decks of the nation, those masses, which in 1989, counted in 1979 and, as Kaczmarski sang in Murach, felt strength and time. I have a deep hope and conviction that today we are also dealing with a awakening that is sometimes known in history. And you can't ignore it, you can't waste it. Just as the Poles moved to freedom and transferred to the Senate their desire for freedom 30 years ago and later But because of the disincentive to politics, disincentives to public service then turned away, often expressing it through low turnout, from those who tried to fight for better Poland They have also been moved today and in recent years. I hope that this awakening will be another and lasting awakening, which will pave the way for better Poland. We also owe this path to better Poland to those who tried to bring about that agreement. And a little contrary to myself, contrary to what I thought over the years, I want to thank all those people at that time, of course, the solidarity side, but also the government side, which led to this Round Table, which is an important stage on the road towards full Polish independence and freedom. And what do we do with this freedom? From this very time is the song of the cult, why do you have freedom, it is still an open question. But I believe that Poles are getting smarter and know better what to do with this freedom. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-04-senat-80-1.u7	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Mr. President, Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, the Marshals of the previous term of office! Ladies and gentlemen, the Senators and Members of all terms of office! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, the Presidents, the Heads of Offices! Excellency! Ladies and gentlemen! Urna is such a stump. You throw it in, it goes out like that, with this joke, the Poles praised the result of a referendum forged by the Communists in 1946, in which we, Poland, the Senate, were taken away from us. This referendum has become the founding fraud of the Polish People's Republic. There are times in history when history is rapidly accelerating. Suddenly, the lives of nations and nations are changing. 30 years ago, for us Poles, the moment awaited by generations came. Everything changed because we got on the road to regaining our freedom. A wave of democratic change has begun to break the iron curtain. From the words of St. John Paul II, spoken on the square, which was then named Victory Square in Warsaw, and now is named Marshal Pilsudski's Square, through the "Solidarity" contract of the Round Table, arrived on 4 June 1989. Then in Poland there were free elections, free elections to the Senate. This chamber was a democratically elected representative of the nation in this great plebiscite, which took place on 4 June 1989, in the plebiscite: for or against communist power? The Poles voted for freedom. We had a great victory then! As a country and a nation, we have come a long way in the past 30 years. We didn't avoid mistakes and sharp turns. There was no shortage of divisions and disputes. We were also affected by tragedies. The biggest of them is the Smolensk catastrophe, in which the President of the Republic of Poland died with his wife and accompanying persons. But we are still on our way, we want to catch up with the best developed economies, ensure a good start for young people, a decent life for families, seniors, all Poles. The regained freedom allows us to realize our intentions and it is up to us to shape the Republic of Poland Because the state is for us, it is for citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, in his speech in our Chamber on 5 November 2007, President Lech Kaczyński said: "The Senate existed as long as there is Polish parliamentarianism, there is always one when Poland is free. We want free Poland, so we want the Senate. The Senate, one of the oldest institutions in Poland, has many tasks. In the symbolic sphere, this is a vital task: cultivating and building a state tradition. This was well understood by the first Marshal of the Reborn Senate, Professor Andrzej Stelmachowski. That is why it was through the marshal that they were handed over to the President of the Republic of Poland the insignia of power, with such piety held by the authorities in exile in London. And it was at the initiative of the reborn Senate that May 3rd was restored, one of our most important national holidays, abolished and banned by communists. It was in this Chamber that we learned democratic procedures and looked at the work of our representatives. The temperature of the political dispute is lower in the Senate, the discussion is calmer and, I have an impression, more substantive. The Senate brings valuable solutions to the legislative process for improving law, legislative and legislative initiatives, including through the inclusion of petitions contributing to citizens' lawmaking. The role of the Senate in the creation of the law is unrecognizable, which we are constantly experiencing. There is also a Senate traditionally, as it was in the Second Republic, the guardian of Polish and Polish people abroad. The complicated and tragic events of our history have spread our compatriots around the world. If someone wants to look for patterns of patriotism and attachment to Polishness, then meet Poles from outside our borders and find out about their warm love for their homeland. These compatriots often paid a very high price for preserving faith, language, customs, Polish culture, also under the most severe conditions. We have decided to significantly increase the resources for Poland and we want them to increase in the years to come. We intensify our contacts with fellow countrymen living outside the borders, place emphasis on education, learning about culture and mother tongue. Our common national task remains to maintain and preserve the Polish material heritage in the East Cathedrals, churches, cemeteries, monuments that still define the scope of Latin civilization are a sign of belonging the peoples living there to the European family. The Senate also conducts active parliamentary diplomacy, is keen to ensure that Europe does not close the door to our closer and further neighbours and finally connects us, like the Lublin Union, and now the European Union, free and equal. Ladies and gentlemen, we should ensure that the reborn Senate of the Republic corresponds to the dignity of the House of Headquarters. We hope in the President's initiative, which in the century declared independence the will to restore the Saski Palace in Warsaw, demolished by the Germans during World War II. The Palace of Independence Because that's what we want to call it, with the seat of the Senate of the Republic of Poland, it will be a symbolic ending of the reconstruction of Warsaw, a healing of the last war wound in the tissue of the capital, a symbol of freedom and independence. The Senate is a permanent pillar of a democratic state, combining tradition with modernity. He will continue to work intensively for the good of Poland and for the realization of our dreams about free, independent, prosperous, democratic Poland, which will be a mother for every Pole and where everyone will find a place in our common Polish house. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much to all the guests invited. Mr President and Prime Minister, Mr Marshal, everyone I've mentioned, welcome. Thank you so much for coming to the Senate tonight and celebrating the 30th anniversary of the first free elections to the Senate. The 80th Senate of the Republic of Poland of the IXth term of office is closed. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[Applause]] Thank you very much. And now I'd like to invite you all to lunch in the senate gardens. I ask the senator to present an announcement.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-06-04-senat-80-1.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain in your seats for a while to allow the President, the Marshals of the Sejm and the Senate and the Prime Minister to leave the Chamber. Thank you. [[Meeting adjourned at 12 minutes 23]]
