ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u1	I open the eighty-fourth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] I appoint Senator Rafał Ambrozik and Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk as the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk. I would like to inform you that the Sejm, at its eighty-fifth meeting on 31 July and 9 August 2019, adopted all the amendments of the Senate to the Supplementary Provision Act for persons unable to self-exist, to the Act amending the Fire Protection Act, to the Act amending the Act on Taxation on Goods and Services and some other laws, as well as to the Act amending the Act on Investment in the field of the Regasification Terminal of liquefied natural gas in Świnoujście. In the absence of objections to the minutes of the 80th first meeting, I state that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 80th Senate meeting, in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, are prepared to be made available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to it, it will be adopted at the next sitting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. The following items were included in the draft agenda that was sent to you: consent to the appointment of the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber and the Act amending the Act on the Polish Institute of International Affairs. In connection with the failure of the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber by the Sejm and the failure to adopt the law, these items were not included in the draft agenda for approval by the Senate. The point concerning the election of the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber will be deleted and then introduced, because the President will be elected soon. But now we have to cross it out. I propose that items be considered from the first to the fifth draft agenda, although the committee's reports on these laws have been submitted at a later date than specified in the Rule. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the votes of opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose a change in the order of consideration of the fifth point: the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on border documentation determining the course of the national border line between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Lithuania, signed in Vilnius on 17 February 2018, and considering this point as the first point. If I do not hear the votes of opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? Senator Comfort, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u2	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! I allow myself once again to turn the head of the High House on an important matter that I have spoken of several times. The fact that I dare to go back to that is because of the new circumstances. Well, I'm going back to the problem of parental alienation, and I'm going back to the project developed by the Senate majority, both from the Law and Justice Club, and from the Civic Platform, about the changes in the family code and the custody code. So far, the argument that we should not proceed with this project was the fact that it is said that We have been assured of this many times. The work on this subject was to continue in the Sejm. I would like to inform you that we have blocked a very good project, i.e. You have blocked a very good project that is not being discussed in the Sejm. And what I'd like to say is... Mr. Senator, a brief explanation. This is a formal proposal, and you are currently holding a debate. I'd like to say that this project... Please explain briefly. I'm almost done. I'm very happy for you. I wish that's what you were getting at. Mr. Marshal, please, I don't really abuse your patience. This project is not proceded in the Seym, as we were assured, nothing happens to it, and another argument for us to deal with it is that the guardian of this project for the Minister of Justice was Who? Mr Piebiak. So that's why it's not going to be proceded in all the changes and scandals that were in the Ministry of Justice. Thank you. Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u3	Did the senator file a motion? No. Yes? Good. I'm against it. Then we shall proceed to the vote. Who is in favour of Senator Pociej's formal request to supplement the agenda for the consideration of the item: the second reading of the draft law on the amendment of the law Who's against it? Please report the results. 67 senators voted, 16 votes against, 50 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 1]] The senator's motion was rejected. Is there anybody else... You're welcome, Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My proposal is further along. It aims to put on the agenda of today's sitting, i.e. on the agenda, which is unlikely to be the next-to-last meeting, so it is the last chance to include all draft resolutions and laws that have reports that have been completed in committees. This is an expression of the application of the principle of democracy, according to which we do not discriminate between any group or any senator. It happened... I have already talked about this, I have called on the marshal to consider some resolutions earlier, so as not to deprive the High House of their right to submit draft laws and consider them. Unfortunately, the freezer was in the Senate. It was a rare phenomenon, and in the Senate I am three terms. Mr. Marshal didn't listen to my request, and in this situation the Senate will end its work with a deficit, with unattended cases. Therefore, the proposal is as much in line with the Rules of Procedure as possible, with the principles of democracy and decency.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u5	Mr. Senator, I'm gonna say that not really, because you have to list all the draft resolutions and all the laws that this is about because the senators don't know what this is about. Everyone... I'm not gonna settle a vote on a motion like this... Mr. Marshal, my statement is precise: all of it. All of them. Good. I'm gonna go to the senator's office and we're gonna vote it out. I'm against it. We are voting on Senator Rulewski's motion. Who is in favour of supplementing the agenda on all draft resolutions and laws that have not been considered by the Senate and are printed, are the reports? Because that's the best we can do, right? Yeah, that's what you said. It's over. Microphone. Are there any prints like that? I don't know. Interesting. It's over. I understand, Senator, I understand. I want prints. I understand you want to support this proposal. No, I'm against it. Who's in favour of Senator Jan Rulewski's request? Who's against it? Please report the results. 70 senators voted, 16 for, 54 against. [[Voting No 2]] The motion was rejected. Would any of you like to speak on the agenda? No. No. In that case, I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the eighty-fourth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland of the IXth term of office. I would like to inform you that the vote on the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on border documentation setting out the course of the national border line between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Lithuania signed in Vilnius on 17 February 2018. That's point one now, because that's what we agreed. The Act on Financial Support for Inland Shipowners, the Inland Navigation Fund and the Reserve Fund, point five, will be carried out today. The remaining votes will take place at the end of the meeting. If the Sejm appoints the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber at its sitting, the agenda of the present sitting will be supplemented by a point on acceptance of its appointment. I inform you that the Senate meeting will be extended by another day, i.e. Saturday, August 31st. The meeting will begin at 9.30 a.m. If the Sejm adopts laws at its current meeting and prepares the Senate's reports, the order will be supplemented by the following points: the Act amending certain laws to improve the process of spending funds under direct support schemes and activities covered by the integrated management and control system; the Act on the State Commission on the investigation of cases of actions against sexual liberty and customs, against a minor under 15; the Act amending the Act on income tax on natural persons and the Act amending the Act on income tax on natural persons and certain other laws is a reduction of PIT from 18 to 17%. In addition, the order may be supplemented by a point on the consideration of the commemorative resolution on the anniversary of the outbreak of World War II. We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on border documentation determining the course of the national border line between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Lithuania signed in Vilnius on 17 February 2018. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1277 and the report of the committee In print No 1277 A. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Rafał Ślusarz, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Senate! I took part in the presentation to the High Senate of the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on border documentation determining the course of the national border line between Rzeczpospolita Polska and the Republic of Lithuania signed in Vilnius on 17 February 2018. The contract referred to is the execution of another agreement: a common state border agreement of 5 March 1996. In this agreement, the parties are required to maintain the state border and to carry out periodic checks on its conduct. The first border control was carried out and border documentation containing, inter alia, a description of the border course, a map, a list of coordinates, border mark protocols and a first check protocol. The text of the bill is to agree to the ratification of the agreement by the President. Yesterday, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, together with the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, listened to the Government's opinion on this law, the opinion of the Legislative Bureau and unanimously recommended that the Senate adopt it without discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u7	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of you like to ask such a question? No. Mr. Senator, thank you very much. Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to take the floor on the bill under consideration and present his position? Minister? No? What about you, Minister? No? Welcome to the meeting of Minister Piotr Wawrzyk and Minister Sylvester Tulayev. So, no? No. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of you like to ask such a question? Yes? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask if the Lithuanian side adopts a similar law.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u9	You're welcome, Minister. If it's a short answer, it could be from a point of view, and if it's longer, please go to the speaker.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u10	Such a bill has already been passed. Yes? It's been passed. Thank you very much... Minister, but I'm gonna have to put it in the microphone, because it's necessary... There's a microphone in there too. The law has already been adopted by Parliament by the Lithuanian Sejm.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u11	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? There isn't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held today. We move on to the second agenda: the law on the national census of population and housing in 2021. The text is contained in print No 1285 and the committee's report In print No 1285 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Piotr Flork, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u12	Mr. Marshal! Mr. President! High Izbo! Report from the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the Law on National Population and Housing adopted by the Sejm on 9 August 2019 in 2021. Senator's print number 1285. On 12 August 2019 the Senate Marshal sent the bill to the committee. Following a review of the Act at its meeting of 29 August 2019, the committee requests that the Act be adopted without amendment. A few words about the bill. The National Census of Population and Housing Act 2021 comes from the Government's submission. The aim of the Act is to create a legal basis for preparing, organising and carrying out a statistical project, which is the national census of population and housing. The obligation to keep a census of the general population and housing every 10 years arises from the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 July 2008 on censuses of the general population and housing. National census of population and housing will be held from 1 April 2021 to 30 June 2021, as at 31 March 2021, at 3 p.m. 24 o'clock. The principle will be to conduct an online self-writer. If a natural person is unable to carry out an online self-script, in particular because of the state of health or any other legitimate interest of that person, the data shall be collected by telephone or direct interview carried out by the census accountants. The census will be preceded by 2 trial lists. The first will take place between 1 October 2019 and 31 October 2019. The second trial list will be held between 1 April 2020 and 30 April 2020 and will cover 16 municipalities in 16 voivodships. The census work will be headed by the President of the Central Statistical Office as the General Commissioner of the census. In the voivodship the census work will be directed by the voivodship as the voivodship census commissioner, its deputy will be the local director of the statistical office, while in the voivodship the census work will be directed by the governor, the mayor, the president of the city. The Act will enter into force 7 days after the date of publication, with certain exceptions. The Act raises no objections as to legislative work. Briefly on the committee meeting and the discussion that took place. At yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Mr Dominik Rozkrut, President of the Central Statistical Office, presented the law. He said a few sentences about this bill, he pointed out that this is a more technical law, of course, from the government's submission. There were no legislative reservations. During the discussion, Senator Grabowski asked how the municipalities were selected for the trial list. Mr. President explained it. I asked about the novel, about the difference between the census that took place in 2011 and the one that was to take place in 2021. Since I was active in the 2011 census, I asked what had changed. The president also said a few words about it. The law was adopted unanimously at a committee meeting. All present senators voted in favour of the bill. That's all. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u13	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the Senator rapporteur. Would any of you like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The President of the Council of Ministers has been authorised to present the position of the Government during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on this matter? No. Are there any questions for a government representative? There's a question, right? Then you're welcome, Minister. Ask me, there you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In addition to providing information, i.e. in addition to the information layer, this inventory also has some constitutional value. It is about the powers of national and ethnic minorities. The part of the powers that are contained in the relevant law depends on the proportion of persons belonging to national or ethnic minorities in the population of the municipality concerned. The threshold here is 20%. The question is this. In the 2011 census, the question about nationality and etnia was not fully served, so to speak, i.e. in this respect At least such votes were raised by minority representatives and the results of the census were not fully reliable. Maybe otherwise, they weren't full, because it's not about credibility, it's about completeness, it's about completeness. What's in that ledger? That's one thing. Secondly, this is also important. The Act on National and Ethnic Minorities and on Regional Language mentions enumeratively what minorities are in our country. The question is therefore: will the census be able to declare belonging to another minority, i.e. by default the possibility to appoint another minority, at least in the factual and not legal sphere? It goes on here, for example. Silesian nationality. Discussions about this are, I would say, very emotional. For the first time, the possibility of declaring the Silesian nationality was in the 2001 census. In other words, the head of the then GUS created the possibility of declaring such a nationality, although in Polish law there was no such possibility at that time. So, two questions. Will there be complete data on national issues? This is important for the powers of national minorities, the completeness of data is important. That's one thing. Second: is it possible to declare a nationality other than those which Poland recognises in the relevant law?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u15	I'll answer that, Senator. Thank you so much for these questions. As far as the first question is concerned, I understand that the doubts about the previous census may have been due to the fact that we were still using a mixed method at the time, which we are actually continuing to do, i.e. the method of using different data sources, including administrative sources, and in fact sometimes certain information is lacking in administrative sources. Their quality was not yet sufficient at that time and a low turnout was imposed on this in the online self-writer, resulting in such concerns that the quality of this data might not be adequate. People argued that no one had visited them, and in some way they were captured. But they were captured in it by the statistical methods that we use on a daily basis. Therefore, it is very important to implement the inventory from this perspective. That is what we will be appealing to society and thus communicating its need. It is not due to the obligation which we have written down in the Act, but it is in the pure and exclusive interest of local communities, which should be strongly involved in the process of carrying out the census. We're gonna appeal to the locals to take part in it. And taking part in the list that is coming now will, I think, be relatively simpler than the previous one. We will very much promote the online self-script, which has been limited to the characteristics as much as possible, so that the implementation of this self-script is as simple, non-burdening and accessible as possible to everyone. We will also share this online self-script with people who do not have access to the Internet, in educational establishments and in municipalities. Of course, there are also alternative methods mentioned here by the Senator rapporteur. The results, i.e. the results of the census, are our common effort Not only the CUS, but also the society. That is why we want this inventory to be properly promoted and explained why it is so important to participate in it. The quality of the inventory will depend on it. And here's the appeal to local communities to get involved and do their job properly. If there's a second question... Of course, the way in which we keep the census must be in line with the existing order of law, so here we do not provide for any derogation from the applicable rules. But if we were to explain in detail today how these questions will be formulated... They are still the subject of methodical work. That's why we're doing two test lists. The municipalities were chosen in such a way that certain extreme cases could be taken into account. We have also chosen municipalities where the number of communities that may be considered a national minority is relatively high compared to other municipalities. We did this just to test the questioning in a specific way in this regard. But, as I say, in principle, these questions cannot go beyond the legal order. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]] If you don't mind, Mrs. Marshal, I'd like to ask.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u16	Yes, please. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u17	As for the first case, I did not get a clear answer to the question whether the question of nationality would be complete, so whether the answers would be complete. As for the second question, the answer is fairly simple. It could be either a closed directory or an open directory of national names, or we don't know it yet. Mr. President, at least answer the second question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u18	This answers the second question: the catalogue is open at this moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u19	Mr. Senator Klein. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u20	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I would like to ask the Minister about cases concerning how to select 16 probationary municipalities. You have already suggested here that these are also municipalities where this identity is diverse. Right? Because the point is also to analyse the question of national or regional identity. So I understand that there will also be Kashubian communes or Kashubian communes. The idea is to show this diversity. And I'd like to ask Or maybe this will be due to this trial list or the 2021 census will be able to stand for a double identity, as it was before, which, in my opinion, was very beneficial for the very openness of those who thought so, so declared their identity. And another question. I'd like to ask if, for example. in Kashubian communes, because there... Will it be a question of the language used by people living in a given municipality or territory? And will there possibly be any documents or answers in the auxiliary language, which in some municipalities in Kashubach is Kashubian? Yeah, just to make it easier for people to communicate with an official collecting declarations.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u21	Thank you very much. Minister, you're welcome. The Minister has already answered the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u22	I'll answer that. Thank you very much, Senator, for your questions. The municipalities were selected in such a way as to take into account the different structures of the population according to certain characteristics that are important to us because of the statistical methods we use. In fact, in the case of the Kashubian population, the Puck municipality was chosen, in which there is quite a large share of... Of course, she also meets a number of other criteria. As a general rule, the municipalities were chosen in such a way that at least one municipality was selected from each voivodeship, and only later were these characteristics selected. Because it is also about testing the organizational apparatus in all voivodships and the functioning of voivodship census commissioners. As far as the national census is concerned, yes, there will be the possibility of pointing double, as in the previous census... And of course there will also be a question about the language used at home. As for promotional material, it's hard for me to say today. I think that to promote the inventory in this way is also one of the good ideas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u23	Thank you very much. You're Senator Jan Żaryn, and then you're Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u24	Thank you very much. I have two questions for you, Minister. The first question is less important, but because I am a historian, I would like you to answer this question as well. Namely, it so happens that the census in 2021 will be exactly in the century of the first census of 1921. Are the state, aware of this 100th anniversary, preparing to promote the census in 2021 also in this respect? That's the first question. Because, of course, this fact can also be used for promotional, mobilization, civic purposes. Well, that's obvious. And second question. Namely, are you monitoring this right now? and even it should be started by now. A collection of information that is most likely in possession of 2 resorts, i.e. Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration and Ministry of Foreign Affairs concerning the effects of 2 laws, the Polish Charter and the Reparation Act? To what extent will the legislation and its consequences, i.e. the influx of new, potential or already real Polish citizens, be included in the 2021 census? Because, undoubtedly, as Senate looking after Polonia and Poles, we hope that these variables, which we are to some extent co-creators, will be captured by the census. Thank you very much. And will it be in the form of some kind of... It's been a minute. ...special care, or just as part of a bureaucratic view of things?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u25	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm asking you to keep the questions within a minute. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u26	I'll answer that. Thank you very much, Senator, for the question. As far as the century is concerned, of course, we want to use this fact for promotional purposes. We also recently celebrated the century of the Central Statistical Office, which was the first office, which was established before independence was regained. We emphasize it every step of the way. Of course, any way to promote this civic opportunity... Because it's not even a duty. It's not a duty. Taking part in this list is an expression of a sense of responsibility for its local community. We'll communicate it and write it down as much as possible. It's on all kinds of anniversaries. As for the second question, we as the CSO have a single database of all registers and information sets in the public administration; that is more than 600 registers. We have all the variables described, and for the purposes of the inventory we will use directly, directly from over 40 registers, including the registers kept by the gestors that the senator mentioned, just so that we can work out this situation well. The census, I remind you... Of course, it is associated with this direct inventory in the form of an interview, which we conduct using the Internet or telephone, or with direct interview, but there is a whole apparatus of strong organs and statistical methods using directly administrative registers. And that information is later adjusted in direct interviews. So that we need this information, I would say. It's not even a question of whether we want to. We have to do it if we want to do it right.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u27	Thank you very much. Senator Jackowski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u28	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. President, I have two questions. First question: how many census accounts should be involved? I was alone in 1978. Forced as a student at the time I'm a census accountant, and I remember a little bit of how it was organized back then. Now I'd like to talk about the details of the work of the raiders: will there be a diet, how will they be obtained, what recruitment... Because times have changed and so on. And then there's the second line. How will the census itself guarantee the provision of GDPR standards and the protection of personal data? I'm asking because I can tell you that at the time I was a census accountant, he was just the janitor in the building I was in, giving me information about all the residents. At the time, there were Special Forces officers living in this block, and this is the block I came across. And then there was a special procedure for how this census was carried out, but the greatest knowledge about all of these people obviously had the so-called. The host of the house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u29	Thank you very much. Are there any more... Senator Czerwinski. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u30	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! As for my first question, the original one, I would ask you to assure you that the data that will be collected in the context of this upcoming census in 2021 in terms of nationality And these data, as I say, are constitutional to the rights of minorities, were complete, so that there would be no attempt to undermine these data. As for the second question, whether the catalogue of nationalities is closed or open... There are two possibilities: it can be a catalogue completely closed, limited to those nationalities that we recognize in our law, it can be an open catalogue, but taking into account the nationalities generally recognized, e.g. Vietnamese, Korean, etc.; but it can also be a catalog so open that a self-written person could enter any nationality there, e.g. Silesian nationality. Why am I talking about this? Because there have already been discussions about this and there have been problems in this regard. Don't you think the CSO should be the initiator of such discussions? And by such, and not by any other census form, by such, and not by any other form of this catalog you can unwittingly enter into the eye of the cyclone, into discussions about the existence of the Silesian nationality.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u31	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u32	I'll answer in order. Senator Jackowski's questions first. How many countmasters in the previous census did we have? It's been over 27,000 robbers. For this inventory we plan to reduce to 17,000 countermasters. It is precisely due to the planned increased participation over the Internet, but also thanks to the better quality of administrative registers that we are able to reduce this number of accountants and thus also reduce costs. Because we do this at a lower cost than the previous census. This is our policy, and this was the case with the previous census. With the help of municipal census offices. The point is to make these municipal offices and local communities feel that this is their project and that it affects how these raiders are chosen. This will make those who will, of course, raise respect, trust in the local community, and therefore the quality of information will, of course, be much, much better. This is how we plan to conduct... But of course the whole recruitment procedure is planned, is described in the bill You have to pass the exam... Of course, it's an open call. Anyone can volunteer. Regarding GDPR, about GDPR and questionnaires, we are in this favourable situation Which we have been fighting for, at European level and later at our level. The fact that public statistics have a derogation in GDPR is excluded from GDPR because by nature it has to collect data, often very sensitive, but necessary to develop certain statistical aggregates. We use this precedent that we use our data only for statistical purposes, they never... They are used only for statistical purposes, never for any other. Therefore, it was possible to exclude GDPR at European level from GDPR at national level. We are excluded from these regulations. But, of course, we are making every effort to secure the systems from a technical point of view, so that there are no data leaks, so that there will never be any irregularities. So much for the short... Thank you very much... The second question, Senator... Okay, here you go. Of course, I can assure you today that this data will be complete as much as it can result from the efforts carried out by the Central Statistical Office. I am convinced that the quality of these results will be better than that of previous censuses. But we need to be aware of each other. And I will appeal, also to your senators, to spread awareness of this in society and in local communities. The need for participation in the inventory is based on this objective in order to ensure that the quality of the data is as good as possible. Because whatever we try to use, whatever sources we use, it's always the greatest importance and the highest value that will have a direct share of the inventory through direct interview. So that we call for these local communities, especially if they want to show their characteristics clearly, to take part. But of course, these methods that we are planning assume a much higher quality than the previous ones. As far as the second question is concerned, we obviously do not want to change the methodology that was used in the previous census, because we do not think there are any controversy in the analysis of the results. As a rule, these cafeterias are open and people can type what they want. The primary objective of statistics is to reflect the situation that people see with all the advantages and disadvantages. Of course, it is up to us, the statistics, then it depends on how we present this information, how we aggregate it, how we make statistical cross-sections. But we're not shutting down those possibilities so we don't just start controversy, that we're trying to eliminate someone from the census. I don't recall that approach... It worked pretty well in the previous census and did not cause any particular controversy. I think so.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u33	Thank you, Minister. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski wants to ask the question again. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u34	Yes, sir. With regard to my experience in 1978, and therefore other realities, I will say that there were in fact no refusals to provide information at the time. Citizens, so to speak... Because then there were criminal or administrative sanctions for not giving information, and I don't remember that at the moment, after 41 years. But I have a question about how it's going to be regulated now. Because there are some people who, for various reasons, want to protect their personal data, fear that the tightness of this survey will not be so good... After all, there will be sensitive data, such as the address of residence, because it must be, the location of the premises, the number of persons checked in and the family situation, income, employment, etc., and so there will be a whole range of different sensitive data. Does the bill provide for a mechanism? Is it mandatory, or is it voluntary? What do these issues look like in relation to: citizen of the census The Central Statistical Office? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u35	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u36	Let me explain. Of course, this whole camera is quite complicated, because the range of variables that are included in the census is far wider than those variables that will be included directly in the interview, e.g. Online self-scription, but it is on our side that it is necessary to use appropriate static methods to estimate the corresponding values also for other features not included in the direct inventory. In fact, the data is sensitive. In principle, according to the regulation to be adopted, there is an obligation to participate in the census. We do not communicate this, but there is also a theoretical possibility of punishing for refusing to participate in the census. Public statistics have been avoiding this type of action for years, and we do not want to associate with this administrative mode in which the respondents will be exposed, rather we are trying to be kind enough to say, persuade everyone, making them aware of the importance of this information in public, social, economic or political life. And that's pretty much always working out. At the same time, as I say, if someone really wants to run a campaign against us, by encouraging us not to vote, then such an instrument in the form of punishment exists, it is written in the basic law on public statistics for us and we can appeal to it also in the case of a census. As far as the sensitivity of these data is concerned, we, of course, provide all technical means to ensure confidentiality. The online self-writer will also be properly protected, the authentication method will be e.g. It's so... There will be many ways to log in to the system. We plan that as today in the case of 500+ it can be done by your bank, the same will be done in the case of the census. Thus, it will be possible to use all the electronic channels that have already settled and are available in the space of social life.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u37	Thank you. Are there any more questions for the Minister? There isn't. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that Senator Jan Maria Jackowski has signed up for the floor. Please, Mr. Senator, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u38	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Mr. President! Representatives of the Central Statistical Office! In this speech, I would like to express my appreciation for your activities. Recently, I had the opportunity to read the report on the demographic situation. I think that unfortunately this report, which should be analysed very carefully by politicians, social organizations, all environments concerned about the future of Poland, probably did not have such a reception. I'm talking about your diagnosis, in which you made such forecasts, that in 2040 there will be 2.8 million citizens. And there were also very interesting and important remarks about the stability of families, children, so everything that is the nucleus the duration of the state, the core duration of society. And in this respect, I would like to thank you for this report. I hope that he will be the subject of reflection and that this will also be reflected in family policies, which the next governments will lead in the future, because these are very complex, long-term, long-term phenomena that require particular care. And right now, going to the bill itself, I'm going to say that, of course, we know that such lists are needed. They give a very precise picture of the actual number, age, education, social condition, but also as far as the material dimension is concerned, namely buildings, real estate, wealth, that's all that is made up of our country. And, of course, this bill is very necessary and very good. I'd like to, Mr. President... It's a moment of reflection on 1978. Well, I didn't accidentally ask questions about sensitive data, because I'd like to... I don't know if everyone knows how it was done back then. In 1978, the rankings, at least in Warsaw, were mainly students who were forced to... There was a very small diet there, I don't remember the amount anymore. Besides, there was intensive training. What was interesting about this training? In addition to providing general rules on how to walk, how to behave, how to fill in a questionnaire, what to type in individual fields, this training included specific questions about education, the place of work of the person who was surveyed. In a situation where someone was involved in force resorts or special services, there was such a formula And we had it in training, I remember it perfectly. That the survey included a state service. And we've already ignored the individual headings that would help us figure out what the workplace is, whether it's MSWiA or MON, whether it's the Civic Militia or the Security Service or some other structure. Then there were simply lines in this survey, state service and this closed the topic of education, workplaces, etc. And I found it in a block in one of the districts of Warsaw. I'm not gonna tell you what neighborhood or what neighborhood. It was Where on 6 apartments about 1 person upstairs... 10-storey building, 6 apartments... Excuse me, 11-storey, 66 apartments I had to dock. On each floor there was a state service. And it was in one vertical of these apartments, so you can see clearly that just these resorts in this cooperative had some agreements and settled there... these buildings were settled by people working in such institutions. And that was, I think, a very interesting experience. I still remember them today, which shows that it was some kind of... well, it remained in memory. It seems to me that at the moment, the problem that will arise will be the problem of the protection of personal data, because the public And you're right. She's getting more and more sensitive about it. That's why I think it's gonna be important. And here I have a suggestion for the Central Statistical Office or administration, which will keep you informed about the census, because there will probably be a social campaign reminding you of the census and the census itself will be preceded by such actions. In order to pay attention to the security of personal data. At the moment, public opinion. I stress this once again: and very rightly It is particularly sensitive in this regard. Therefore, this guarantee to the citizen that these data are processed only for statistical purposes and not for any other purpose, and they will not come out somewhere, is simply fundamental. In conclusion, I would like to say that I support this bill as much as possible and I wish for this operation This is a huge logistical challenge for your institution and has been carried out in an efficient way and so that we can get to know the results of this census as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u39	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u40	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Mr. President! I would like to take the floor to clarify the issues I raised in the course of the questions. I think it should sound out of that tribune because history should be the teacher of life. The decision to make or prepare a census itself is as beneficial and desirable as possible, of course. The State should know what, in quotes, it has, what resources, whether housing or population. But we've already had a few censuses after the turn of 1989, and we've sort of passed them, and we know what problems came from these censuses. From such, and not from any other aggregation, from such, and not from any other holding of a census. From 2001 to 2005, I was a Member. In 2002 a national census of population and housing was organized. And then I wrote, with a few more good people, a protest letter to the then president of the CSO, which allowed, in total, non-legally, because apart from the bill, the possibility of entering an open catalogue in one of the census columns... I mean, this possibility was open, there was an open directory when it comes to nationality. It was then that the president of the CSO introduced to the Polish public discussion a side path, a side door of the Silesian nationality. He made it possible. We then, when we passed this bill, were unaware of it. There was no general awareness of it, no one had it except a few people who, as I say, protested. The answer of the president of the CSO was then, so I would have it He called, round, on a ship, one from which any conclusions could be drawn. And then the conclusions came true. Some of the countries that are interested in these problems are aware of the further consequences of such and not of other activities related to the neutral population and housing census in general. This inventory is neutral. in everything except one fundamental issue. The results of this census are constitutional for the rights of national, ethnic and regional minorities. Namely in those municipalities where the number of persons admitting to these minorities is more than 20% the general state of the population of such a municipality, the language of the national minority may be used as an auxiliary language and a double name on the tables with the names of the localities and topographical names. What does that mean? This means that these minorities will try to maintain some kind of status quo that exists at the moment. The current state is that in several municipalities in the Opole Voivodeship and in one or two municipalities in the Silesian Voivodeship these powers are used, based on the census of 2002. In 2011 due to natural processes, i.e. trips to Germany, extinctions, quotes, i.e. the reduction of this pool, the percentage of national minorities in many municipalities was below 20%. And that's what the 2011 census showed. In order to retain the powers of auxiliary language in municipal offices and topographical names, I am talking here about a minority of Germans who began to question the results of the 2011 census, which in several municipalities simply abolished these powers due to natural demographic processes. And that is why my first question, Mr President, was about how you would ensure totality, the completeness of data in this area, in terms of this question about nationality and possibly native language. Well, I don't know what the questions will be. The second point is that the catalogue is open. Well, it was in the census in 2002 and then in 2011 that Silesian nationality appeared. There were such activities, especially in the Silesian voivodship, but also in Opole, which encouraged the inclusion of this Śląskie identity not as etnia, but as nationalities. And now there's a simple question for the president. I've already tried to ask them here. Do we understand this question of nationality in an objective or subjective aspect? Can you enter only those nationalities that actually exist in the heading "Nationality and Ethnic Minorities': those recognised by the Act on National Minorities and Ethnic Minorities" or those which a person may assign in a subjective aspect. And in subjective terms, any nationality can be entered, even those that objectively do not exist. And here's the question: what will the president ask about in this register? About objective or subjective nationality? Because if it's objective, the catalog should be closed or semi-closed. If it's subjective, it can be completely open. Well, that's the question that's gonna work. It's gonna really have that effect, 'cause they've already been. Let's not count on it not to happen again. There are such forces. I wouldn't want to define them more precisely. Especially in Upper Silesia, but also in Opole, which try to disperse the uniformity of the Polish state somewhat. Maybe it's better to say relax. There are different methods: either by trying to call, in quotes, the language of the minority It's supposed to be Silesian, which is bullshit, of course, because there are 2 dialects, and there's, by the way, many of them. Or just through the Silesian nationality as a separate category. And some of them say it's about autonomy. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that your predecessor intentionally or unconsciously made a mistake in 2002. Well, perhaps this was due to the methodology of census activities, but in addition to the methodology, i.e. strict issues, there are still state objectives. And I would call for these public objectives to be achieved in terms of these 2 issues: complete data and closure or openness It's up to you to decide A directory of nationalities that can be entered. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u41	Thank you, Senator. I know Senator Kleina still wants to speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u42	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the context of the discussion on the national census, a number of different issues are being taken, because indeed on the basis of these records, the decisions that will be included in the national census, on the basis of those data that will come from the national census, will be able to draw various conclusions. The very sensitive issue that Senator Czerwiński was talking about here is the question of nationality and identity. What I'm trying to say is that I have exactly the opposite opinion as Senator Czerwinski. Consequently, we have been meeting on such occasions for 4 years on such occasions, because it seems to me that it is impossible to talk about identity, the feeling of regional or national identity, or ethnic identity, that these are issues that harm the Polish state. Any case of closing these letters, i.e. the introduction of closed questions, which will only be answered in such a way that there are such and such nationalities or ethnic groups... Well, such administrative, statutory closing of these letters will not solve any problems that are in Poland. Even if in Kashubian, in Silesia, it is forbidden to tell anyone that he is Kashubian, Silesian, it will not result in people feeling like Kashubians or Silesians being there. So that you just want to adjust reality a little to your vision of the state. I think so. The strength of Poland is that it is national and ethnically diverse. Today, national and ethnic minorities in Poland are an absolute margin. One I'm sure of it. In the past they never threatened Poland, their very existence within the borders of the Republic even proved that the Republic is strong, rich with its diversity. And closing, bringing the Republic only and exclusively to a single nation has always led to various tragedies in our history, leading to the fact that we as a Republic, as Poland, were going to marginalize various important events in the world. So if we're talking about making our homeland strong to be strong, then I think so. We're talking about a country where we're not afraid of minorities. In fact, we think they're the wealth of our homeland. Any closure of these letters, these censuses, saying that there can only be one or such identities, that's just a harmful situation. This harm was evident in 2001, when there was no possibility of an answer... no double identity could be given. It forced the person who said he was Polish and Kashubian, because that's how it is in Kashubia... This led to the fact that the citizens of our region often had to make dramatic choices. Why would you do that? It's better to tell them to open up, show them what they're like. This is the power of the state. It is not that we push people through administrative action so that they have to express themselves in such a harsh way. Today, the question of nationality in Poland, in Europe, probably all over the world, is not such a simple matter, it is absolutely dynamic. To the extent that even those nations that were extinct and treated as extinct are now reborn in many places. Languages that almost didn't exist are rebuilding today. This is actually the value of the fact that societies in the world are alive at all. An example of Wales: The Welsh language, which practically no longer existed, is today the subject of the pride of this society. Whether Welsh people are worse citizens of Great Britain because they have their own language, protect it, develop it, etc.? This language never 100% does not replace English, but is the cultural value of this society. Is there something wrong in Poland because there are bilingual inscriptions in Kashubian communities? On the contrary, because of this, there has never been a situation where there would be conflicts. I will tell you more, those who, for purely national reasons, acted in these matters, so Polish, began to destroy these subtitles, to cause conflicts. They were never there. It wasn't until the idea came up... Well, unfortunately, when Gdansk was shown by public television a few months ago and the inscription Well, it's been painted. It never crossed anyone's mind, but there's always an idiot who's gonna say you have to destroy, ruin, and act. That's when problems start. I think that Polish wealth is precisely that we are diverse, that at the same time we are citizens of one homeland. But we want to say that, all of us, to be respected. We don't want it to be that just because there's a statutory ban on talking about our identity, we're gonna be safer and stronger right away. I would warn against such actions. On the contrary, I think greater openness in these matters will always serve the good. That is also what I would ask of you here, the President of the Central Statistical Office. I believe that these actions that the office is taking are good, give an opportunity, I would say, to speak in a non-conflict manner in different situations. And this is always better than an acute case, because it always leads to conflicts, including national and ethnic conflicts. I think that people who think in the category of one nation, one leader, one country is just... They'd want it to be that way. No, Poland is richer than some think. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u43	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Personal Income Tax Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1284, and the report of the Commission In print No 1284 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to submit a report to the committee. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u44	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The joint committees at the meeting yesterday considered a law amending the Individual Income Tax Act. The joint committees unanimously recommend the adoption of this law without amendment. During the meeting of the committee, the senators took note of the issues governed by this law, a bill drawn up by the Tripartite Team on Maritime Affairs and Fisheries, acting at the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation. This law has the full support of the social side, meets the expectations that have been expressed for years. The purpose of the Act is to amend the Act of 26 July 1991 on income tax on natural persons consisting in exempting from income tax the income of seafarers obtained from working on ships in international shipping, and consequently to encourage shipowners to fly their ships off the flag, which guarantee the seafarers tax exemption, under the Polish flag. This law also improves the competitiveness of Polish seafarers in the labour market, the international labour market. The amendment is in line with European law. This law implements Community guidelines on State aid to maritime transport in Poland, guidelines of 2004, in which the Commission recommends the application of aid measures in the field of labour costs and taxes for ship owners in international shipping. The joint committees, after consulting the Act, recommend that the High House adopt it without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u45	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Are there any such questions? You're welcome. There isn't. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Today we have Minister Grzegorz Witkowski, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Mediterranean Shipping. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill? No. Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Kazimierz Klein. Minister, I'd like you to come to the stand, or there will be questions for you. Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u46	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Polish sailors who sail under foreign flags, e.g. Norway... Maybe I'll just talk about the example of Norway. Such sailors, in accordance with the agreements signed between the Polish Government and the Norwegian Government, are exempt from tax, i.e. they pay zero tax. But it comes to this, the sailors report it to me. . that certain tax offices oblige these fishermen to submit PIT forms concerning the normal tax resulting from the provisions of Polish law. Not all offices do, but some offices do. Even legal proceedings are pending before the administrative court in this case. Is there any uniform interpretation from the Ministry of Finance that aims to ensure that those sailors who sail with Norwegian shipping companies, but it is possible that others too Were they treated the same way by all tax offices? As I say, the vast majority of these offices treat them according to this agreement, in which there is no tax, but some tax offices in the Pomeranian Voivodeship apply just such a practice that forces... Well, even the entire proceedings before the tax office lead to the presentation of these PITs. And it's not in the other offices. Is there any uniform position to be expected here? I think it should be said, however, that these sailors are exempt from these taxes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u47	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u48	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, the issues you're raising are covered in the Work Act on Fishing Ships. This doesn't apply to merchant fleet sailors. You're talking about fishermen now. The sailors of the merchant fleet. Yeah, but you know very well that in other cases we're dealing with a situation where tax offices interpret these records differently. I have no influence on the Minister of Finance and I have no influence on the IRS. In other such cases, for example in the case of dredging works, we are also dealing with the issue of different interpretations of tax regulations. This bill, which we are discussing today, ladies and gentlemen, has been consulted for several years. By the current government, but also by the previous one with the European Commission. As we said yesterday at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Infrastructure, we are moving on very thin ice when it comes to public aid when it comes to tax facilitation for seafarers, and we cannot push away not per cent of the guidelines drawn up jointly with the European Commission and the Ministry of Finance. We raised a lot of questions that you spoke about, but the Ministry of Finance was not willing to loosen up some of its rules and recommendations. Either we make this bill in the version that we present to the House of Honorable Senators, or there wouldn't be one. That's why the senator's appeal I think it's very right that you go to the Minister of Finance. I think that we will have to come up with this initiative in the new term, but once again I will stress what the rapporteur said: this law is also the result of consultation with the social side, with the Tripartite Group, with trade unions, so it is up to them to say the last word about which direction the future amendment is to go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u49	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u50	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I understand that this law applies only to shipowners who operate within the European Union or within the European Economic Area. I'm not sure Russia is in the European Economic Area... It's not. It is not, so not all European countries are concerned. And what is the situation, for example? those seafarers who are employed under flags outside this catalogue, i.e. outside the European Union and outside the European Economic Area? Well, let's take it. Liberia, Panama or other countries that have so-called. Cheap flags. What is the situation of sailors who sail with such ship owners? Does it change anything or doesn't it change their situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u51	Unfortunately, the situation of seafarers under cheap flags is dramatic because they are not covered by any protection at all in terms of work, health conditions, safety, insurance, etc., etc. This law of ours is one of the three stages. The first step, the first attempt to meet this situation, was signed on initiative, but also completed by the sleeper. President Lech Kaczyński's Tonnage Tax Act. She was probably accepted in 2006 or 2007. The second step is today's bill. The third step will be the bill that is being examined by President Andrzej Duda's law firm on the insurance of seafarers. If all 3 laws play together, sailors will have a real tool and a real incentive to return to the Polish flag. Then, first, they will enter the tax system of the European Union, second, they will be insured And they, and their families. And, thirdly, ship owners will be able to flag their ships under our flag. Until this is done, we have no offer for the ship owners or for the sailors. But don't be outraged, half the world swims under cheap flags, unfortunately, with economics we won't win in this case. No shortcut here is gonna help us. The Bahamas, Liberia, Bermuda, and really law firms run ships and sailors' lives. Unfortunately, this market is so constructed. We'd really like to change that. Next year we will celebrate the century of Poland's marriage to the sea. Maybe it'd be worth it next year to lean on it. We wish in the Ministry that the next year would be the year of Maritime Poland, and this law has great potential for seafarers and ship owners to be better protected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u52	Senator Kazimierz Klein. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, the end of your speech showed the essence of this problem. A large part, perhaps even the majority of shipowners or owners of shipping companies registered their ships under the so-called. Cheap flags, but most often they are companies and from countries of the European Union, and even from Poland. After all, most of the Polish state fleet, Polish ships at the disposal of the state enterprise, which is PŻM in Szczecin, is registered Yeah, I think so. Under cheap flags. Right? So even a state entity in Polish conditions made such a decision, according to the Minister of Interpretation, to the detriment of employees. I think so. And I'm going back to my question. I'm sure there's no way to roll a miracle around here. I didn't say that to the detriment of the employees... How? You said that... It's in their... they're alone... ...they're mistreated. If state shipowners from Germany, Belgium, Italy, Spain, the United States register under their legislation... And from Poland, too, right? ...then I guarantee that the Polish shipping company, the national shipping company, will also consider it. That is exactly what I am saying, that even a Polish state-owned shipowner, with a large fleet, not a small one in Europe, registered his ships under cheap flags. But I'm mostly talking about this tax question, because this is the first step that could be taken. These other things are obviously important, but... That's where my question came from. The point is that there should be a clear interpretation of the Polish government that all seafarers working under such flags or in such shipping companies are treated equally, and the treatment of these seafarers results from international agreements, for example. between Poland and Norway, just as regards the treatment of seafarers. They should be treated the same way. And that is the problem, because today the tax office of the Mazowieckie voivodship treats seafarers differently than the tax office of the Pomeranian voivodship. And that's the problem. Today, we all, as we are here, are building a big bill, we are starting to brag about it, but in practice, from the sailor's point of view, it unfortunately does not produce any such effect. Okay, Mr. Senator, but now is the time to ask questions... And that's the question of why this is happening.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u54	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u55	Very good postulate, very good remark, but it is addressed to the Ministry of Finance. Now let's do what we can do right now, so let's do the second step I was talking about, out of three, and next year, in the century of Poland's marriage to the sea we will bend over interpretation. Because, as I say, this is a question to the Ministry of Finance, not to us.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u56	Thank you very much. There you go, Senator Bierecki... The interpretation could be done right away. And that's the problem. Mr. Senator, there will be time to discuss and comment... I'm sorry, I won't discuss it anymore. ...to those speeches. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u57	Thank you very much, Marshal. Senator Kleina's colleagues, I would like to point out that this is the law that we are abolishing income tax on the income earned by seafarers and the ambiguities that the senator was talking about, this law explains. The existence of this law will help the tax authorities to standardise their position. But the question I wanted to ask and the question I didn't ask at the committee meeting, or actually now, under the influence of this discussion, it occurred to me... Indeed, the fight against cheap flags reminds me of the fight against tax havens that the OECD has quite effectively initiated. The relevant EU directives and consequently changes in Polish law were to be adopted. Is there any work going on in the OECD on preventing the operation of low-cost flags and thus avoiding taxation, transferring these taxes to tax havens? And if they don't roll, isn't it worth considering that the Polish government should initiate such work in this organization? Indeed, the fight against a global problem can only take place within an international organisation, which is the OECD.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u58	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u59	This discussion is not ongoing, at least we do not know anything about it, and we would certainly be involved in this discussion, because, as the senator said, we have some fleet, both passenger and freight. Well, no one's interested in that kind of discussion. Everyone's... The government should be interested. I am talking about our foreign partners who benefit from the fact that there are tax havens and they can register their ships, their fleet, as well as sailors who, for various reasons, simply prefer not to be included in the tax system of their home countries, their home countries and the European Union. We will certainly raise this issue because in the 21st century there cannot be such a situation that sailors are treated as in the 16th century. That's right, yeah.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u60	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I understand he wants to join the discussion? No. But just now the Minister said that everything is okay, and now that sailors are treated like in the 16th century. Okay, Mr. Senator, but I'd like to invite you to a discussion I'm about to open. If you have any comments, go ahead. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up for this discussion. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We begin to light up item four of the agenda: the Investment Act for External Ports. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1283, and the report of the Commission In print No 1283 A. I would very much like to ask Senator Jack Włosowicz, rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, to submit a report to the committee. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! Yesterday, 29 August, the Infrastructure Commission discussed a law on investments in the construction of external ports. In the beginning, the Minister presented the situation in the Baltic Sea that trade in the Baltic is increasing significantly. This also applies to 3 Polish ports and therefore there is a need to build and expand these sites. In the case of Poland, it is the connected ports of Szczecin-Świnoujście, Gdynia and Gdańsk, where the deep-water container terminal, the central port in Gdańsk and the external port in Gdynia are to be created respectively. The Minister explained to us that this law indicates what institutions are entitled to such investments, and defines the relations between the various local authorities that will be involved in this. The legislator made one formal remark. The Minister promised that it would be implemented on the occasion of the next amendment. Then we took the vote and unanimously, five votes for the bill was supported. The Commission shall request the High Senate to adopt a law. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u62	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Are there any such questions? Senator Jan Rulewski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u63	While agreeing with you on the need to expand the port system, I would like to draw attention to one problem and to the lack of a solution on the part of the government, while at the same time under pressure from the local authorities about which you are concerned. You're right, you're right, He was talking. Ports are one problem, and the back of ports is another problem. My question is this: in the context of this concept that we only create, I would say, these terminals, which are the ports themselves, we think about the back, we think about intermodal ports, among other things. in Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship, where it occurs, I would say, regulation of flows to these different ports The extension of railways, waterways and even air routes? Does this include this bill, or does it just focus on the head of the problem?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u64	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u65	I'd like to reply to the senator, but it wasn't discussed. This is included in the Act. I think that if the senator had redirected this question to the Minister, the Minister would certainly have talked about the issue of bringing the railroads to the port.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u66	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Senator of the rapporteur? There isn't. Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Minister Grzegorz Witkowski like to speak on the bill under consideration? No. Thank you very much. Senator, I'm sure you'd like to repeat this question, ask the Minister. Yes? Mr. Senator? I'm addressing Senator Rulewski. Yes? Yeah, yeah. Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal, for your memory. Ladies and gentlemen, the senators can now report a question to the Minister from a place that lasts no longer than a minute. The Minister would like to invite you to the stand. The first question you ask is Senator Jan Rulewski and then Senator Kazimierz Klein. Yes? Yes. Will anybody else want to ask you a question? I don't see any more calls yet.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u67	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! The subject you raised in your question was the subject of debate in this House a few weeks ago during the discussion on amending the Law on ports and marinas. There we managed to post long debates both with the Tri-City government and with the Ministry of Infrastructure, among others. so-called. red road in Gdynia, create a new catalogue of roads leading to ports. Well, we have a curiosity situation that the previous government hasn't done anything about. The scale of negligence is several dozen years old, such that the ports in Gdansk and Gdynia are in the centre of the city, which translates into the fact that the last kilometer you were talking about is in a strictly urbanized area, so dangerous goods that are transported to and exported from the port are simply transported by housing estates. In order to change this situation, there is this special act. The point is that we can expand the port in a different direction, further from human clusters, as is the case throughout Europe. At the beginning of the 20th century in Antwerp almost the entire city was displaced to make a port that today is one of the largest in the world. We're not gonna do this kind of thing, we're not gonna plan it, but we're gonna have to deal with this situation somehow. And the railroad, and the Ministry of Infrastructure have their specialties The road, rail, thanks to which there is also large money from a financial perspective, from the PAIiIZ and from the Connecting Europe, intended for the development of port access infrastructure. About Bydgoszcz... First of all. ...it also reminds you that it is the natural base of three-city ports. Indeed, both the Marshal of Całbecki and the newly appointed Inland Navigation Authority in Bydgoszcz, which is one of the 3 in the country, have advanced talks with the Bydgoszcz government about the creation of an intermodal port in Bydgoszcz. In addition, I remind you that over PLN 3 billion will cost a large investment on the Vistula below Włocławek, in Sierzewo, which will improve navigation conditions on the Vistula, so badly contaminated today.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u68	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? Mr. Senator Klein. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u69	Mrs. Marshal, I'm sorry to ask so many questions, but it just so happened that on this last day... But you're welcome, Mr. Senator. ...there are a lot of topics that I'm interested in, so about maritime and regional issues... Yes, of course. ...and the affairs of the sailors. I would like to ask you about the external port issue. Poland was once obliged to strengthen the creation of a port of refuge, which would be such a port protecting shipping traffic in the Baltic Sea. That's what Ustka was supposed to do. I know that the project is underway for the expansion of the port in Ustka. They go, unfortunately, very slowly, but they go That's what you need to be happy about. When designing the extension of the port in Ustka, was it treated precisely in such a way that this port would become a port of refuge for Baltic shipping within the meaning of the Baltic Sea rules?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, look forward to the vote of the Civic Platform, which is applying for maritime management... It was really worth waiting for these moments. But don't be mean. Mr. Senator, actually, there's design work going on in Ustka on port remodeling. This port was simply destroyed after World War II. The waving and hydrotechnical buildings in the port of Ustka are scandalous. That's what the fishermen are talking about. There is an increasing number of dangerous incidents and accidents. As part of the Operational Programme, fishing and the sea are dedicated to designing a new entrance to the port by our Ministry. I don't know if it's gonna end soon. Poland was never obliged to build such a port of refuge. We do this as part of the budget resources and resources of the Operational Programme And we are doing this because the ferry market and trade in the Baltic Sea are growing, as Senator Włosowicz presented. The point is to have an extra harbor. Will Ustka be such a back room, such a port? I hope so. But this law focuses primarily on Szczecin, Świnoujście, Gdańsk and Gdynia. Thank you. I'd like to ask you a question, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u71	There you go, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u72	Minister, it is not a matter of hope, it is that the harbor of refuge must meet certain conditions. If today, as a Ministry, and under your authority, the Director of the Maritime Office in Słupsk, under conditions, so to speak, the design will say that this is a harbor of refuge fulfilling such, such and such conditions, then it is designed in such a way and so. It's about proper entrances, depths, trackers and all sorts of things. So it's not a matter of hope or faith, it's a matter of concrete, so to speak, expectations, writing down what this port is supposed to be like. My question was directly whether he was a refuge in these categories.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u73	It's not in this bill. This bill treats... But didn't you ever... 'Cause we're talking about how... He's being considered. The port in Ustka is considered as a freight port, a commercial port, as a new large fishing marina, but it is not in this law. And it's too early for that kind of consideration.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u74	Thank you very much. Senator Czerwinski wanted to ask you another question. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u75	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The question will be loosely related to the content of this law, but bound. Namely, the ports covered by this Act are also the container terminal in Świnoujście. The terminal's here. Please? The terminal's here. They're here, of course. Well, fortunately, we're talking about the future. The question is: will the construction of Nord Stream II not cross the plans in this regard? Will we be able to actually build what we want the ships to come in?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u76	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u77	Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, the cooperation of our west neighbours with our East neighbours makes shipping conditions in the Baltic Sea very difficult, especially in the context of entering the port in Szczecin and Świnoujście. From the information we have, from such ongoing hydrotechnical, hydrogeological studies, it appears that these shipping conditions are currently not at risk. But we have information. only from the pipeline Nord Stream I, Nord Stream II pipeline is not yet built. The German side assures us that it will take into account our comments and our demands. As it will be, we will see, but the entry of these major gas carriers into the gas terminal, sometimes it is actually difficult and in the future it can also be difficult. However, at present we do not have hard data on the danger of entering the gasport. However, we have hard assurances from the German side that they will take into account navigational conditions so that they do not interfere with anything so that the new investment at the bottom of the Baltic does not interfere with the entry into the port in Szczecin and Świnoujście or the future container terminal. That's all I can honestly say right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u78	Thank you. Senator Klein still wants to ask you a question? No. No? Thank you very much. Minister, thank you, because I don't see any more questions. I'm opening a discussion. I'd like to speak... There are no calls. There's a call, there's a call. Oh, no, you're Senator Klein. Mr. Senator Klein. Good. Mr. Senator, please come to the podium, no more phone calls. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u79	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I probably wouldn't have spoken on this matter if it hadn't been for the Minister's statement, who said he was surprised to see why a representative of the Civic Platform is speaking on maritime affairs, mostly maritime infrastructure. This was supposed to mean so much that at a time when the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party were ruled, it seemed to be little or less for these purposes than during the present government. Well, of course, first of all, the senator has the right to at any time ask about various matters that concern the law or the ministry's activities. It is not appropriate to add a political context to this situation. But that's another matter. And the role of minister is without, so to speak, any subtext, in an honest way to answer. All the more so because I in no question I've asked before or today, just like this... In them, trying to discredit anyone is never there. And that's why I was a little offended and, unfortunately, encouraged to perform. I'm not prepared to tell you today about all the investments that were made during our governments, but they were huge projects, they were really huge projects. Unfortunately, the current government has not implemented projects on such a scale. The only announcement of a larger project is still the issue of the excavation in Vistula Mieria, which raises a lot of controversy. But if we were to evaluate even the entire maritime coast protection programme and how big, huge were the actions on just a section of the Maritime Office area in Słupsk, it would turn out that no one has ever done there again. There have been quite innovative solutions introduced, seagulls that secure the shore, make the beaches and shores safe... And how many investments have been made in small ports, e.g. In Darlow, in the Beaver, in other ports like this? Tens of millions of zlotys have been invested in these ports in recent years, it was money and from the state budget, and from EU funds. The scale of development, expansion of the port in Gdynia and the progress of the projects that are currently being implemented was really huge. I even feel like in the last four years... I'm not saying nothing was done at the time, because it wouldn't be true. They're obviously... e.g. In my harbor, in the head, a little has been done, even now something is being done, but it is far less than in previous years. It's just... the port in the mouth we're talking about here, and that I mentioned here. It's not because you're having some kind of political discussion... Because the problem with this port in Ustka is that until today the design objectives have not been fully defined. Besides, the Minister's statements clearly show that, didn't they? That he thinks... that maybe... maybe he will... But building a port, especially a seaport, isn't just that I think that I want something to happen. It's an investment for tens or hundreds of years. So the decision to enter a port, what parameters, is important because its consequence is how the quays inside the port are expanded, etc., etc., etc. These are just basic, elementary issues. And it's not that I'm just thinking, it's what I've set, what I'm trying to achieve. Besides, this whole thing can't be realized in one coalition, one government, because it's multiple investments. - for years. I sometimes even think that it would be necessary to have a new look at maritime affairs. The state as a PiS focused on the dentures of the Vistula Mill. Okay, we'll see... I have my doubts about this, but I don't want to criticize it. But the real vision of maritime economy and new ports would be such a vision that we are talking about a truly new port. Not about Gdynia, not about Szczecin, because the expansion of Gdynia... I'm glad that there's an expansion of Gdynia, but here you basically follow these tracks, trails that somebody there once before the war, 100 years ago, determined, there's no new look here. Szczecin and Świnoujście are not a new vision either, because we got these ports after, so to speak, German rule. And the vision would be that we say there's a new big port that has a developmental perspective. And he could have if he was on the middle coast. It could be a mouth or something. It's a pain in the ass. I have my priority on this issue and I believe that there are still large port reserves, places where a port of really different importance could be located. Then I would say this: oh, actually there was someone new who said that Poland has a maritime economy and has a new look that apart from things that happened... You said about Ustka that everything was devastated there after German times. I wouldn't say that. I don't praise the times of the Polish People's Republic because it doesn't make sense, but discrediting the fact that the waterfronts were built there, various things, etc... It was also a port of war, and a small port of commerce It's a matter of course. That port in the mouth... It wasn't even an independent city, it was a neighborhood or part of Słupsk. Right? After the war it was expanded. Today we can praise it or not This is another matter. Today he is really very bad, but this is due to years of neglect, not because nothing has ever been done there and that once there Germans did something before World War I or World War II. We need to look at the maritime economy in a new way and not speak in terms like you tried here. At the moment Ustka is designed, there is a given order for some design office. It would be worth mentioning on this occasion how this port should look like. The discussion about the port of refuge was a great discussion probably initiated by the Maritime Institute in Gdańsk in 2018. The issue of this port was discussed and it was said at the time that there was a need to build a port of refuge on the central coast. There was talk of Kolobrzeg, talk of Ustka. The head is mine, so to speak, my beloved port, but I know she will never be a large port. This is a small port that has its other functions. But there's something you could do about these ports. If the construction of the expressway 6 from Koszalin to Gdansk was not blocked, in the case of the section to Koszalin from Szczecin in our time decisions were made, the tender was settled, etc. It's these ports that would naturally, so to speak, enter the expressway, so that it would be easier to transport cargo, goods, etc. There are things you can do, but you have to look more at these things. I'm not saying we were perfect in these things in our day, God forbid. I've had a lot of disagreements about this with my colleagues who know these things. But saying that the maritime infrastructure wasn't done much at the time is just a big dishonesty. The thing is, no one's got it up yet. If you beat me, I'll clap. Let's see, aside from the announcements, we're still... Even this unfortunate measure is still an announcement, as is the ferry under which Prime Minister Morawiecki nailed the keel. Ladies and gentlemen, no one starts building ships from a keel, first it must be known to the ship owner, and he was not known. The FBI asked me if it was for them or for someone, she said she didn't know. There was no indication of how many people he was supposed to transport, what ports to swim at, etc. First a keel was made, consecrated. So? Nothing. These four years are embarrassing, and that applies to every... Well, not everyone, sorry, I'd be unfair, but a lot of things in the maritime area. The wind farm is a far-reaching project, and the ports of Ustka, Darłowo and Leba were supposed to be service ports for wind farms... Time, Senator, time. And what was done? There are no arrangements as to which vessels, vessels or vessels could enter these ports. That's the situation. There wouldn't have been that statement if it hadn't been for that little malice on the part of the Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u80	Thank you very much, Senator. Emotional performance... The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the consideration of item 5 of the agenda: the Act on Financial Support for Inland Shipowners, the Inland Navigation Fund and the Reserve Fund. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1276 and the report of the committee In print No 1276 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Wiesław Dobkowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u81	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! On behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, I have the honour to present a law on the financial support of inland vessels, the Inland Navigation Fund and the Reserve Fund. This bill is intended to... That's another so-called. a maritime law aimed at financial support for the inland waterway fleet. Inland navigation is an important base of Polish ports. About 100 million tons of cargo are reloaded in Polish ports at the value of approx. 40 billion PLN. This is the data from 2018. The fleet of inland ship owners is getting old, and this has been going on since the early 1990s. The support I am talking about will amount to about PLN 16 million between 2019 and 2028. Now a little bit about the bill itself. This law implements the recommendations set out in the European Commission's position of 8 August 2011 concerning the currently functioning notified aid measure. The European Commission's position indicates changes to be made in the Polish legal system to ensure the correct application of EU state aid rules. These are: extending the list of beneficiaries of the Inland Navigation Fund to entities from the Member States of the European Union; limiting the amount of aid to a de minimis amount; removing the mechanism for payment of funds from the Inland Navigation Fund for permanent exclusion of ships; repealing the rules on aid to firms in economic difficulties. In addition, the Act is the result of an evaluation commissioned by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Development of the functioning of the IWT Fund in 2002 and 2010. Proposal for legislative changes to improve the functioning of the fund. That is the title of this study. Given the very wide range of changes, it is proposed to repeal the 2002 Act on the Inland Navigation Fund and the Reserve Fund and to replace it with the currently authorised regulation. The new law regulates the rules for granting financial support to inland operators and the operation of the Inland Navigation Fund and the Reserve Fund. Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego will grant preferential loans at the company's request to co-finance the purchase, modernisation or repair of the ship in the manner and in accordance with the rules laid down in banking law. The rate of interest on this preferential loan will be 0,4 of the rate of redistributive notes determined by the National Bank of Poland. Who can apply for this preferential loan? It may be requested by a ship owner carrying out an economic activity registered in the Republic of Poland, consisting in transporting cargo, carrying out maintenance and modernisation work on inland waterways, transporting passengers on ships intended for or used for the transport of more than 12 passengers. It may also apply to a ship owner who is not in arrears for taxes constituting the revenue of the State budget, social and health contributions and fees and fines constituting the income of the National Environment and Water Management Fund, as well as having the credit capacity and who grants preferential credit for co-financing the purchase, modernisation or repair of a ship other than a small ship, and who will show the planned ecological effect or the planned positive economic effect, and who has not disposed of the ship for which the purchase, modernisation or renovation of the ship has obtained the credit during the period of validity of the preferential loan agreement. The Act also lays down the rules for the waiver of preferential credit upon fulfilment of the conditions laid down in the Act. Shipowners will be able to refinance the purchase of rescue measures, navigational signs, signal measures, radio-telephony communications, navigation equipment and equipment using new technologies on ships if the funds earmarked for this purpose are provided for in the financing plan of the Inland Navigation Fund in a given calendar year. Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego will refinance the purchase of a ship's equipment component of 50% its price paid by the vessel owner. A ship owner will be able to apply for the refinancing of the purchase of the ship's equipment component in the year in which he purchased the component shall have no arrears due to taxes constituting the revenue of the State budget, social and health insurance contributions and fees and fines constituting the income of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. Where will the funds come from? The funds transferred to the Inland Navigation Fund will come from: grants from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management; interest on the interest on the funds of the Inland Navigation Fund and interest on bank deposits temporarily free of funds of the Inland Navigation Fund; from the investment revenue of the periodically free funds of the Inland Navigation Fund in securities issued by the Treasury or the National Bank of Poland, and securities specifying the cash benefits guaranteed or guaranteed by the Treasury or the National Bank of Poland; from the interest on preferential loans granted from the Fund for Inland Navigation, as well as from donations and records and receipts from other titles. However, these funds may also come from a special subsidy from the State budget of the amount set out in the Budget Act, which the Minister responsible for inland waterway transport sent. I asked the Minister what the budget would be, if it would reduce the budget. The Minister said that, for the time being, there is simply no provision for this special subsidy from the state budget, but the law gives the possibility. What are these resources of the Inland Navigation Fund going to be used for? They will be allocated to preferential loans; to the refinancing of the purchase of ship equipment components; to the remuneration of BGK for the operation of the Inland Navigation Fund; to other expenditure specified in the Financial Plan of the Inland Navigation Fund related to the operation of the Inland Navigation Council and to the implementation of the actions indicated in the IWT Promotion Plan; to the payment to the Reserve Fund. The Supervisory Board of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego will supervise the management of funds of the Inland Navigation Fund. In this bank, the Reserve Fund will be run in the cases provided for in Council Regulation No 718/1999 of 29 March 1999 on a Community fleet capacity policy to support inland waterway transport. This Reserve Fund consists of 3 separate accounts: for dry cargo ships, tankers and pushers. A special Inland Navigation Council will be set up as an advisory and advisory body in the presence of the Minister responsible for inland waterway transport. The tasks of this council will include: to issue opinions on applications for preferential credit, partial remission of preferential credit and authorisation to dispose of the vessel. Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! At the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, amendments were proposed by the Legislative Bureau, but after explaining the Minister... It wasn't much of an introduction, was it? Yes, no one has tabled these amendments. I see. We felt that this law should simply be adopted without amendments, and so the committee did. We voted unanimously on this bill, which means we voted on the bill without amendment. On behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, I ask the High House to adopt this law without amendment as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u82	Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation is authorised to present the position of the Government. Are you the Minister? Do I address Minister Grzegorz Witkowski on this bill? No. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of you have signed up for this discussion. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held today. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point: consent to the appointment of the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber. and consider it as point six. If I do not hear the votes of opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. I don't hear any objections. Ladies and gentlemen, in the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, we therefore proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: consent to the appointment of the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Article 108 The Sejm called for this position by Marian Banas, and the resolution of the Sejm on this matter is included in print no. 1287. I would like to welcome you very warmly to the Senate meeting appointed by the Sejm President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, Mr Marian Banasi. Minister, we would like to welcome you very warmly. [[Applause]] I would like to remind you that the Senate may, before adopting a resolution on the acceptance of the appointment of the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, call on the candidate to provide explanations and answer the senators' questions. Would any of your senators like to ask Marian Banasi or ask him to explain? Will there be any questions for the Minister? No. Thank you very much. Would the Minister like to speak? There are no questions for the Minister, but maybe... That's right. I'm not gonna find out... [[Applause]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u83	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to say a few words about such an honorable position as the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber. As President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, as with all important state positions, a number of requirements need to be met, there are several features that each candidate should have. The most important here is the ethical-moral attitude, i.e. what we generally call patriotism, love and love of our own homeland, on the one hand, on the other hand. It's a competence. I would like to refer to this first requirement. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I have shown with my life that for me, after God, my homeland is the greatest value. When Poland was in need, we lived in a totalitarian system, I dared, like many other Poles, to act to change this situation, risking life, health, wealth. As you know, not just from the media, possibly from the encyclopedia, I was also sentenced to four years in prison at that time. In short, my homeland and family were my greatest values. In short, the truth, good and beautiful. The truth in God I recognize that this is the first thing that should characterize every man, especially a Pole, because our history involves what the Decalogue brings, what the Gospel brings. It gave us, Poles, strength and power. Good as service, service first to the family, then to the nation and to the state, because without it the state is unable to function. And, ladies and gentlemen, the beauty that should delight us, not be disgusting, as it may be. Another thing, very important, which should be characterized by every candidate for such a position or by a person who has the highest functions in the country, is competence. Ladies and gentlemen, I have worked in the Supreme Audit Chamber for over 20 years, from a simple, lowest position to a legal adviser, which is from the substantive point of view, I have passed almost all levels. Ladies and gentlemen, I also had the honour of attending the government first of all. Prime Minister Jan Olszewski In short, though, it lasted almost six months. and later in the rule of law and justice in the years 2005 and 2007 and 2015 and 2019. For my trust and my candidacy by the Members of Law and Justice, I thank the President very much, and I believe that these commitments... This honorable role I will perform with the greatest dignity, commitment, impartiality, because I have been entrusted with these functions, just undersecretaries of state, secretary of state, I have been allowed to carry out the largest project of reform of the tax and customs services, I was also the Minister of Finance... These functions were entrusted to the person who was partyless, so I am very grateful for that. It also proves that the PiS doesn't divide, but it connects. And the United Right. And I think that in the upcoming elections Poles will express it. As regards further predispositions, further intentions, first of all I think that the Supreme Audit Chamber, as the highest state authority, should provide the Sejm, the government, the President with the most valuable analyses that set out the strategic directions of the state in order to deal with any irregularities, any changes in the wrong direction. The Supreme Audit Chamber, which is largely a group of really high-class professionals, should be giving such material so that we can actually make the best contribution to the development of the country, to creating the strength of our country, to be counted with it both here, in the country and abroad. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u84	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you very much, Minister, for your previous service to your country, and especially for sealing the tax system, thanks to which, ladies and gentlemen, the revenue from VAT in 2018 increased by PLN 50 billion compared to revenue in 2015. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Applause]] I inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that the vote on this issue will be held in today's voting block. Ladies and gentlemen, I now announce a recess until 1:30 p.m. The vote will then take place. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 08 to 14 minutes 00]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-30-senat-84-1.u85	I'm reopening the session. We return to the examination of item six of the agenda: consent to the appointment of the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber. We now proceed with the vote on the Senate's consent to the appointment of Marian Banasi as President of the Supreme Audit Chamber. Who is in favour of the appointment as President of the Supreme Audit Chamber of Marian Banasi? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 70 senators voted, 60 were in favour, 12 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 3]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has agreed to appoint Mr Marian Banasi as President of the Supreme Audit Chamber. You're welcome. Well, maybe not from now on... the President of the Supreme Auditorium for an approach to the presidential table. I'd like to present you with a Senate resolution. [[Everybody up.]] [[The Marshal hands over a resolution]] [[Applause]] We return to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on border documentation determining the course of the national border line between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Lithuania signed at Vilnius on 17 February 2018. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendment. Senatski Print No 1277 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 4]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on border documentation defining the course of the national border line between Rzeczpospolita Polska and the Republic of Lithuania signed at Vilnius on 17 February 2018. We are returning to the examination of item five of the agenda: the Act on Financial Support for Inland Shipowners, the Inland Navigation Fund and the Reserve Fund. The Infrastructure Commission has presented a draft resolution requesting the adoption of this law without amendment. Senatski Print No 1276 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 79 in favour, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 5]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on Financial Support for Inland Shipowners, the Inland Navigation Fund and the Reserve Fund. I'm declaring a recess until 9:30 tomorrow. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 14 minutes 04]]
