ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u1	I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. You're welcome. [[Talking in the O.R.]] And I'm asking you to quiet down, preferably end the conversation. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, today, August 1st is the fifth anniversary of the Warsaw Uprising. Let us honor all heroes, soldiers fighting on barricades and residents of Warsaw, including those who lost their lives in the fight for the liberation of the capital. Please rise and celebrate with a minute of silence the memory of the victims of the Warsaw Uprising. [[Everybody up.]] Give them eternal rest, Lord. And let eternal light shine upon them. Let them rest in eternal peace. Amen. They remain in our memory. [[A moment of silence]] Thank you very much. I remind you that at 12.30 we will adopt a resolution on the anniversary of the Warsaw Uprising. Ladies and gentlemen of the senators, please be present. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by the following items: the Act amending the electoral code and the National referendum law. and consider it as point forty-second; the Law amending certain laws to reduce regulatory burdens and consider it as point forty-third. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. Objection! Oh, there it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u2	Mr. Marshal, I object to the introduction of a point concerning the amendment of the electoral code. I believe that amending the electoral code during the pre-election period is contrary to the case law of the Constitutional Tribunal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u3	The bill... So you're not bringing in the senator... Okay, we're about to vote. As for the law on amending certain laws to reduce regulatory burdens, does anyone object? No? Well, I'll take that as a yes. that this proposal was accepted. And at the moment, we are voting on a proposal to supplement the agenda with a point: the Act amending the Act on Election Code and the Act on National referendum and consider this as point forty-second. Who is in favour of this proposal? Who's... Who, Mr. Marshal... Well, I'm filing this motion, so I'm voting... Yes. The electoral code? The electoral code. Who's in favor of... Who's in favor? Well, I... Well, I'm not saying how I voted, although this is a public vote. I vote in... It's always worth saying, because sometimes someone... I vote in favour. Your marshal? Good. Please report the results. The votes were 60... and even 70 senators, 54 were against, 16 against. [[Voting No 15]] So, by a large majority, my request to complete the order was accepted. But not unanimously. But most of them were for it. But that's democracy... We respect democracy. Yes, sir. And democracy must be respected, absolutely. She must be respected in a ruthless way. We respect, we respect. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Support for the Development of Telecommunications Services and Networks and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1225 and the report of the committee In the letters Nos 1225 A and 1225 B. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u4	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The Committee on Infrastructure at the meeting of the Joint Committee... No, not connected... ...was concerned with the opinion of the Act amending the Act on Supporting the Development of Telecommunications Services and Networks and some other laws. Implementation of the National Broadband Plan of the Government's Development Programme setting out the objectives of universal access to the high-speed and high-speed internet, as well as the means to achieve these objectives First of all, it requires a focus on the elimination of procedural and financial administrative and legal burdens limiting the commercial investment potential of telecommunications operators. During the committee meeting, the manner in which these objectives will be met was mentioned by the Minister. After this substantive, substantive speech, there was a moment for the speeches of the invited, present representatives of social organizations. The representatives of the central authorities, who presented their opinions, also spoke of their doubts. As far as these doubts are concerned, the question of lack of data, lack of knowledge about the possible impact of changes in electromagnetic wave emissions associated with this development on the human body, was raised in a special way. In fact, it would be possible to conclude by shortening that it was the issue of these changes that caused the greatest stir, the most emotional reactions, especially among the incoming audiences, the associations that claimed that... To be honest: this is at the stage of a certain conviction. It was given free time to speak to the representatives of these organizations and, in truth, to say... One of the representatives who claimed that he was proposing and presenting the amendments to us was given almost an hour to speak. During this hour, we have not actually learned as senators what these proposed amendments are about, and the justification has been expressed. In short, it's quite vague. This was based more on a certain conviction than on confirmation in the form of irrefutable evidence and facts. In fact, this committee meeting was quite turbulent and was long, but the substantive explanations given by the Minister, the Ministry, the accompanying officials, allow, in the opinion of the senators, to propose to the High House a positive opinion on the law adopted.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. Now I would very much like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u6	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is an honor to be able to submit a bill which was the subject of a meeting of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. As my previous speaker mentioned, the bill, also known as the telecommunications megastore, is intended to simplify and accelerate the development of the Polish telecommunications network, including the Internet network. At the meeting of the local government committee, Minister Wanda Buk was present, who referred to the subject of the law and what the law contains. In the country, in Poland, there are about 5 million households, which are called. White spots, i.e. in which the web has a speed of less than 30 Mbit/s. These are the white spots. These are parts of the country that are actually excluded from access to the network, which is common today. Through the government's efforts so far, we have managed to reduce these white spots, reduce the number of these farms, but we are still facing quite a challenge of covering these white spots with the Internet. It's a mobile network, but it's also a fixed network, a cable network. This law aims to expand the network, facilitate its expansion, encourage investors to develop the network. As at the meeting of the previous committee, my colleague Senator Pekkis, a discussion took place during the meeting of our committee, and basically the main point of this discussion was the issue of the harmful electromagnetic radiation to the human body. On the one hand, there were arguments of the current social side, and it was the National Association for Electro-deficiencies, which indicated publications on the harmfulness of electromagnetic radiation. On the other hand, the Ministry, according to the materials we received as committee members I think that all the parliamentarians also got it, said that there was no reliable research on the impact of the 5G network, the electromagnetic field on man. We also got this pretty cool work on the electromagnetic field. And like I said, there was a little bit of that argument-convincing thing. On the one hand, the representatives of the association claimed that this was a homicide for the human body, that this radiation was harmful. There are studies, but in general I did not find such reliable ones in my view as rapporteur, but also as senator. Research. Long-term studies have not been conducted. Such research should take a decade, about 10 years, to possibly draw some conclusions. As far as the subject matter of the Act is concerned... The Act has actually been in consultation since November 2018, for quite a long time. In the meantime, the NIK report was released. The Act has been supplemented by the post-control indications NIK. Ladies and gentlemen, the law that has been decreed in the media by the 5G Act is not really a law, because the law does not explicitly contain provisions that concern the 5G network. There is talk of a mobile data transmission network, data transmission, and there is generally no such record of a 5G network. As in the course of the discussion, the Minister pointed out to the representatives of the association, in principle the electromagnetic radiation standards are the competence of the Minister of Health, these standards, issued in the form of a regulation, are unchanged so far and it is not known whether they will be changed. For the time being, this law does not change those standards. As far as the committee's proposals are concerned, the committee has accepted the bill, which means we have adopted the law without amendments. But as Senator Pekkis pointed out, representatives of the association tried to make some proposals for amendments during the committee meeting. They were really... Well, it would be hard to call them amendments, because they weren't, so to speak, fit into the matter of the bill. None of the senators took over these amendments. However, ladies and gentlemen, since the Act raises so much controversy about the harmfulness of electromagnetic radiation, it is in fact the implementation of Directive 2018/1972 of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing The European Electronic Communications Code, and this directive does not oblige us to implement the provisions on the data transmission network for short distances, just on 5G, and I will, of course, make a deposit in a moment, during the debate on 2 amendments. The first amendment concerns the powers of the President of the Office for Electronic Communications. She's very important too. But I will allow myself to read, so that this sounds appropriate, the content of the justification of the second amendment. There's a few changes in a few articles... Mr. Senator, you are presenting the committee's report right now. If there wasn't an amendment at the meeting... Yeah, yeah... ...then you'll introduce her later, not now. If you'll allow the marshal... I'm gonna make these adjustments in a minute, but the point is, I'm gonna say, moods... In the course of the discussion, amendments are tabled, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and amendments... I'll put them down right away. Maybe I'll discuss what I'll do, Mr. Marshal... No. It's your duty to tell me what happened at the committee meeting, not what's gonna happen next. Okay, then. After the discussion, the committee adopted the law without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u7	That's it. Thank you very much. Now the senators can report from a place that lasts no longer than a minute of questioning. Mr. Senator Pup. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u8	Dear Rapporteurs, Indeed, this bill arouses emotions in society. I've spoken to a few professors who speak differently about this bill. Especially this 5G electromagnetic radiation. Wakes it up. Also concerns about the fact that placing transmitters, transmitters of these 5G radiation stations can cause various types of health repercussions, because there is quite a strong impact on organisms. Senator Grabowski somehow calmed down, saying that this situation is unlikely to be the case. It's a good thing he has that knowledge and information about it. I would also like to ask you about some control over this type of action. We have the Ministry of the Environment for this, and we also have regional Environmental Directorates or the Directorate General for Environmental Protection. Are these institutions The Ministry of the Environment will have an impact on environmental impact assessment, health and life not only of humans, but of all living organisms? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u9	Thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Wait a minute, three questions. Now Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for both gentlemen... actually Senator Grabowski, because he raised this problem more. Did the committee's meeting explain why there is, in principle, no valid scientific study that would determine whether these fears related to this technology are justified or not? We are in the 21st century and it would seem that science gives answers to many questions. The creation, carrying out such research in a 40 million-dollar country is a matter of a certain state. Yes? This is a similar situation to what exists in different other areas where there are major social fears. The problem is serious and in my opinion it would be good if, for example. Parliament, when proceeding with such projects, had meaningful knowledge to which one could appeal and possibly confirm or possibly deny the fears that arise. Was there a discussion at the committee's meeting about why there was no such study? Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u11	Thank you very much. The question was... Excuse me, which Senator of the rapporteur? Senator Grabowski. To Senator Grabowski, because he spoke primarily about this issue in his report. Good. Mr. Senator, you're welcome to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I'll allow myself to answer questions in order. First question, Senator Zdzisław Pupa. When it comes to monitoring grids and electromagnetic radiation, it is this law, Mr. Senator, that implements such an electromagnetic radiation control system. This law actually implements a comprehensive solution that will allow us to examine, measure, analyze and diagnose the intensity of the electromagnetic field. With regard to the second point, to the question of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, I was signaling... 5G technology is so new technology, it's so fast technological progress... As I pointed out earlier, during the discussion at the committee's meeting, it was stated that a 10-year period, a decade would be needed to carry out such reliable, meaningful research. 5G technology is so new that there is no long-term research. As for the conclusions that are coming... That's what I'm gonna say, throwing myself through arguments and all sorts of studies. Of course, the various studies do not cover such a long period of time. They indicate potential risks or the neutrality of electromagnetic radiation. From what I remember, the conclusion from these studies is that in general... none of these publications state 100% that electromagnetic radiation in this frequency range, as far as 5G, is somehow harmful. I found publications, also quite reliable, which indicate that there may be a temperature effect at the epidermis level, but it's at some huge intensity... So that the kind of research you're asking for doesn't exist, Senator. Mr. Marshal wouldn't let me, but it wasn't about overtaking the questions. But I'll allow it if your marshal... [[Talking in the O.R.]] You're welcome. Quiet, ladies and gentlemen. Quiet, please. I'll read the justification for the amendment I'm about to make, one of the amendments. The amendment aims to delete from the Act all provisions relating to near-range wireless access points which are the only regulations in the Act related to 5G networks. We are talking about deleting both the definition of these points and the rules on their placement in public space. Those provisions were the implementation of Directive 2018/1972 of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing The European Electronic Communications Code. However, as the Directive does not have to be implemented this year, it is proposed to postpone the introduction of the regulation until a comprehensive drafting of the law implementing the Communication Code has been drawn up. This will also allow for a broad information campaign on the actual importance and impact of the 5G network, in order to provide the public with true and scientifically proven information about the new technology. So that, as if trying to calm down, calm down social unrest... This amendment, which I am about to make during the debate, will de facto exclude from the matter of the bill any issues that may be associated with the 5G network.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u13	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Wind. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u14	I would like to ask you the following question. It is said here that 5G technology is new and research takes 10 years, so there are no results yet. Well, you have to pay attention to the fact that this type of radiation has been known for decades, there are such tests and they can be used on a principle, well, some similarities. I mean. in the case of electromagnetic radiation, there is a question of frequency and intensity, isn't there? And the impact of this radiation on living organisms has been an issue under investigation for decades. So here to say that there are no studies, that there are no studies, is not entirely justified. That's the question I'm asking... I don't know, maybe Senator Pakkis, 'cause he's nodding his head here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u15	Thank you very much. Senator Jackowski will ask you a question. Tell me which Senator the rapporteur to.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u16	Both senators. Please. Namely, it is such that some also raise the issue of the loss of part of the revenue by local governments as a result of the entry into force of this law. Was this topic discussed at any committee meeting? As if you gentlemen would like to comment on this matter... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u17	Thank you very much. Please answer Senator Wind and Jackowski's questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u18	Regarding the second question: Mr Senator, this issue was not addressed at the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure. As for the first question, it is difficult to disagree with the professor. Yes, sir. Except we are talking about introducing new technology and talking about environments that are rebellious, which can be called, to put it mildly, resistant to arguments on the other hand. It has its own way of saying, etymology, there are moves... I don't mean to offend anyone, but I'll give you an example. Anti-vaccine movements, which also assume something and absolutely do not accept the arguments of the other party, believing that there is a worldwide conspiracy against humanity that is to destroy humanity itself. But you have to take it. One thing is that the technology is already in operation. It's true in South Korea, but that's where it works. It's hard to talk about sharing information outside the scientific sphere. Except, quite frankly, if we take what scientists say seriously, we should also say that actually, in the past, scientists have never been so weakly listened to. Despite the fact that at present it seems to be a great deal of science in the world and the fact that scientists are genuinely passionately studying certain matters with professionalism, their arguments have never been so poorly listened to. It is unprecedented and it is described in the literature quite widely. We live in a time when we genuinely want rapid development, regardless of circumstances, and for this rapid development we are also able to overlook some effects that we are not fully aware of. And even if we allow scientists to examine these effects, let us first note that scientists themselves are not unanimous, secondly, that what they determine is so hermetic in their message that it is not adopted by the public. It's hard to apply a case. At the committee meeting, this was discussed in a very limited way, without basically providing technical data and not referring to the studies that the professor spoke of, but it is true that such studies are being carried out. And one more important thing to pay attention to, I think, is the aspect. We as a country, as a nation, do not participate actively in building the infrastructure of the equipment of this technology, i.e. those devices that we're going to use, which we're going to use, so to speak, will come from the outside. We'll just, in short, buy them. From one of the senators who is passionate about this technology, I know that this is Chinese technology, best mastered by the Chinese, that is, they developed it best. Another case is that the exact same company is now being censored by the United States Government and therefore we have a dilemma. On the one hand, we have a powerful consortium that has been committed to development and which has developed this technology, and on the other hand we may encounter a problem that we will not be able to use it for reasons of sanctions or limitations. But these are the economic, political problems that we didn't deal with at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u19	Thank you very much. Senator Grabowski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Let me answer Senator Jackowski's question first. It was at the meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration that a question came up - even I asked it - concerning the potential concerns of local governments, and not only local authorities, about the general public property to be made available on the basis of the law for free. Minister Wanda Buk explained that this is the intention of the European Union directive. This is the intention that this network, this infrastructure, is to be made available free of charge to speed up the development of this technology. I will also signal that, as the Minister pointed out, e.g. consultation and attempts, so to speak, to agree with local government units on tolls for taking up the roadway lasted 8 years. Well, it's about building up transmission cables in the road lane infrastructure. In general, it's about fiber optics and later payment. And from what the Minister has pointed out, it appears that this price has been achieved, these costs have been reduced by around 90%. It's just a matter of information. I will also allow myself to refer to the words of Professor Wind. I know you're a professor, so to speak, an IT specialist. I didn't say there was no research at all. But on the basis of these studies, which, to say the least, were not quoted at the committee meeting, but cited... I will allow myself to read a piece of the study called "The effect of electromagnetic millimetre waves on the health of the employees of the 5G network and the general population." And let me... This is a publication that has been developed - a second, because I have this publication in an electronic version - by prof. dra hab. Konrad Rydzyński. And let me read a piece of this justification or, in total, a summary of it: - On the basis of an analysis of available - albeit few - data on potential health risks, it can be concluded that there is no evidence of negative health effects of EFM exposure with values that are expected from the estimated technical data around 5G broadcasting devices. However, due to data indicating the existence of biophysical mechanisms likely to lead to such effects, it appears necessary to apply the precautionary principle and the ALARA principle (the lowest possible dose) in the planned operation, at least until the results of the studies have been obtained, which will allow for a more objective response to this problem. This is particularly important in the context of chronic exposure (long-term/long-term) as well as exposures differentiated in terms of the health status of the population. I'm just on that basis... During the committee meeting, I tried to report it. And I heard that there is no reliable opinion - this opinion in some way confirms this - research carried out over a reasonable period of time to determine something precisely with regard to 5G technology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Jackowski and Mr. Senator Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u22	Thank you very much, Marshal. Well, I'll admit, I was shocked by Senator Pekkis. 'Cause I wasn't at the committee meeting. Well, this is a matter that requires discussion at all in the forum on national security. That's a question for the Minister. If it is true that it is a company which at the moment, by our main ally, the United States, is perceived as a particular type of company I'm not gonna say it right now. It's a matter of creating on the basis of equipment, equipment or technology of this company... The question of giving a 40 million-dollar state here is a question of the foundations of national security. That's a question, Jasia, to the Minister. Has this topic been moved more widely? And also: is the position of the institutions responsible for national security in this area known? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u23	Senator Wind. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u24	Mrs. Marshal, I'm here to see Senator Pekkis. Here, of course, it is extremely important to deal with the conditions of measurements and operating conditions, but I will no longer ask questions in this respect so as not to prolong. However, words that have not fallen at all, and are extremely important for our discussion, are words concerning acceptable standards, i.e. what the issue of electromagnetic radiation standards in Poland looks like against the background of solutions in other countries, because it is extremely important And that's not said here. Especially since these standards will also be related to the devices mentioned by Senator Jackowski. If they are imported, then our standards will have to be met. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u25	There you go. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u26	I have just this question: did the Minister of Health and the Minister of the Environment address this law? Are there any opinions from these two ministries? No. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Pekkis. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u28	I'm sorry about... That wasn't the case, Senator, at the committee meeting. As I said, it comes from some additional knowledge, from interest. I'm sorry about the nuisance. In fact, this was not mentioned at the committee meeting. It's a matter of opinion. We agree... I agree with the senator on what the senator has expressed his concern. That's it. And in answer to the question about what happened at the committee meeting, I will say: this is a matter of opinion. With regard to these standards and impacts, I will give a very concrete example. In Opole region there is a village Odrzańskie, where all standards are met according to measurements which are performed and for 8 years only girls are born. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Good for the girls. And you can say that statistically it's impossible, but anyone who knows how the electromagnetic field affects the body, especially on the male organs and semen, can say something here. And now the question is, after this reply, do we say that this influence is good or bad, since only girls have been born for eight years? Well, that's an open question. And the next question is, if you want a boy, shouldn't you evacuate from this place, and that's it? It works well. That's in terms of standards. You, Professor, are... Professor knows that some of the Polish standards since 1996 are not binding, it is not mandatory. Non-safety and medical standards and construction are not mandatory standards. There was no discussion at the committee meeting about standards. Well, that wasn't a discussion. There was only one assurance to the Minister that this technology met the standards. Thank you very much. Is there anything that Senator Grabowski would like to add... Ah! You asked the senator... Senator Probie, right? ...about the Minister of Environment and Health. No, no such opinions were presented at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u29	Senator Grabowski might add something else. Please. That bill was a government project? Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I'll say it like that... I mean, I'll answer the question. I think Senator Pekkis has exhausted the matter of questions, but in the Committee on Local Government and State Administration, as I recall, there was no position of the Ministry of Health or the Ministry of Environment. Association In other words, the social side that participated in the committee meeting called for some negative opinion of the Minister of the Environment, but I did not see this opinion during the committee meeting. About... There was another question here. Who asked the other question? No... No, I think that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u31	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Senators of the rapporteurs? There isn't. Excuse me... Senator? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u32	I have a question about this health risk associated with 5G, because people who report studies from Brazil and France, pointing to the harmfulness of this. Was the need to discuss this in the Health Committee discussed at the committee meeting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u33	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u34	This was not the proposal at the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u35	Thank you very much. There are no more questions. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Digitisation has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? We have Minister Wanda Buk from the Ministry of Digitalization. Minister? If there's any questions... Good. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Klein, Mr. Senator Radziwiłł... Szymanski and Radziwill. ...Senator Szymanski. Good. Senator Kleina, please. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u36	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I would like to ask you something, precisely in connection with this bill, to ask for an answer to such a question. Because this law also offers support for all those who will invest so-called. It's the last mile. Right? How will this be done in practice? Because actually this network of basic ones, so to speak, fiber optic veins in a large part of Poland has already been built and now the biggest problem is these investments last mile. They've been for years... Well, to a small extent these investments were implemented. How will this be possible? How will the support be given to local authorities, to some groups of residents, so that they can join the fast internet, to fiber optics?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u37	Senator Radziwill. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Unlike co-senators who have already spoken, I have no greater concern about the health effects of the 5G network. It's rather, as we've been saying here, fear rather than fear. From psychology, we know that the difference is that fear is irrational. I guess you could say that in general. There is no good research, methodologically valuable, which would indicate that we are dealing with some significant threat here. But I'm interested in something else. That's the point. these companies, and such, let's say, mental movements, which, however, point very clearly to the direction of China. In the last few weeks, we've been experiencing this seemingly unrelated drug issue, a drug issue that has shown that a significant proportion of the manufacturers of drugs that contain thyroid hormones produce drugs that... Well, it turns out that they are actually supplied by one Chinese producer, and there has been some inexplicable and unexplainable crisis that this supplier has stopped simply supplying to European drug producers a product that was and is important for a very large number of patients. I have to say, we still haven't figured out why. I don't want to fall... build some conspiracy theory of history, but I have to say that I personally do not exclude that it was a kind of exercise, testing, like Europe. .. not only Poland.. It will react to such a situation. It was an exercise and it showed that you can in a very simple way It is well known that this industry is under the control of the government there to influence what is happening here, including influence politics and destabilise politics. That's how I get what happened last time. So, isn't there a risk here? Thank you very much, Senator. It's not that they're gonna listen to us, it's that they can listen to us at some point, for example. Shut it down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u39	Good. It's an analogy, because the drug situation doesn't apply to this bill. Please, Senator Szymanski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u40	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Health effects. I'm sure there'll be a lot of questions for you about this. I would like to point out that it is not enough to say that the social side has not presented the results of the studies which are reliable, because it is the government that should present the studies which state that it is indifferent or positive to health. The same is true with medicines. It's hard to market drugs we don't know how they're gonna work. We should know how it works, not answer that research would have to go on for many years and we have no knowledge about it. In short, we should react here as in medicine. Do we have a study that will confirm that this is indifferent when it comes to health?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u41	You're welcome, Minister, your vote is yours.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u42	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, senators! I'll answer one at a time, first to Senator Kleina's question. on the Wideband Fund, which we propose under the provisions of the Law. Today, we assume that it will work similarly to the Operational Programme. We in the framework of the Digital Poland programme had 4 billion PLN to distribute to the telecommunications market and to connect households. For these 4 billion PLN we were to connect 700,000 households. As the rapporteur said, households who do not have access to broadband internet are over 5 million in our country. We were able to design the operation so that instead of 700,000 farms, there would be 2 million. This means that 2 million households and all schools... We are very happy about this, but there are still 3 million farms that, in the 15 years perspective, with current investment conditions, without the law, will be deprived of broadband access. Of course, I'm talking about locations... mostly small towns, villages, places where there's scattered buildings, where operators just don't want to invest, because they don't think it's worth it, or they're gonna cost so much that nobody's gonna want to buy such a high subscription. The Wideband Fund, which we are proposing to introduce here, will be financed, which is also very important, from penalties and charges levied by the President of the Office of Electronic Communications on telecommunications operators, i.e. a specific feedback mechanism. Today we want to design all of this in such a way that it will happen as in the case of the Digital Poland programme. We think this mechanism has worked perfectly. Just like you. I said, three times we did what we were obliged to do. Let us also bear in mind that the Wideband Fund will be launched in 2021, i.e. reality can change a bit further. And what shape we're going to design then will be adapted to the reality around us. Today, all I can say is that it seems that the best investment is, however, an investment in a stationary network, in a fiber optics. Let's also remember that today there's a lot of talk about the 5G network, it's said that it's a mobile network, and it's really something that connects all the standards, including fiber optics. We are leading to the possibility that all opportunities that operate on the market can be exploited. Today, our intention is to answer the question directly. In order to design this similar to what we have already done, and what, as experience has shown, we have done successfully. We want to direct interventions where there are so-called interventions. white spots, to these small towns. And the details will be laid down in the form of a regulation, because that is what the law provides for. In answer to Senator Radziwiłł's question and at the same time referring to the discussion that took place a few minutes earlier, I would say that we should actually take full responsibility for the new technology of 5G network technology, but not because of health concerns, because in this area Professor... This has already been said that there is little change, physics does not change, the 5G network uses the same physical phenomena used by 4G, 3G and 2G networks. Sometimes it is said that these are different frequencies, and there is some truth in this, like most of the half-truths, which state senators are also covered up, because in fact some frequencies were not previously used by mobile systems, which does not mean that they were not used at all, generally. And so on. The 700 MHz band is today being used by television and will be used, in accordance with the decision of the European Parliament and of the Council, by mobile systems. The 26 GHz band, the high frequency band, has not yet been used by mobile systems to ensure mobile communications, has been used by the radioline. There are a lot of half-truths on which fears are built. But I'll get back to the answer to the question. Therefore, let us put aside health concerns I'll be right back with the next question. Because what we should take care of and what we should bear in mind when introducing this technology on which our economy is beginning to be based is cybersecurity. Cybersecurity issues are such language in importance, so to speak. We're very committed to them. The Cyber Security College has been set up. At the beginning of July, our opinion was forwarded to the European Commission, the government's opinion on how to mitigate the risks of cybersecurity and possible dependence on a supplier that could prove to be a compromised supplier. We have proposed the European Commission in this opinion because, of course, there is a discussion that is also taking place at the level of the European Union, not only within the Member States. Several solutions that can mitigate the risks associated with the security of the ICT network. What we have proposed is to impose on operators who buy equipment from suppliers, appropriate limits on the use of the equipment of a given supplier. So we want to bring about a situation like this, or we propose a situation where operators are willing to risk compromising the entire layer of the network by providing different devices from different sources. At the same time, we want him to be right... Oh, here's two more words. The senator gave an example of drugs that didn't have replacements. In the case of telecommunications networks, there are substitutes. I'm not going to allow myself to exchange specific companies now, but the substitutes are, and they're already online today. They are European companies, and they are also companies from the United States. The second element to ensure cybersecurity of this network is the system of certification of equipment. They are also in some way certified today, but not at Member State level and not at European Union level, so that we have the best possible certainty, the highest possible, achievable, the highest probability possible, that the devices meet all safety standards, that they do not have backdoors, that the network will be a network that will ensure the continuous transmission of services. Another demand is to impose obligations on telecommunications operators, appropriate organisational responsibilities, requirements to meet in order to mitigate the risks associated with cybersecurity. To answer Senator Szymanski's question... Ladies and gentlemen, I know that many of you have received a lot of materials and these are materials that contain very alarming content. I already said a few minutes earlier that when it comes to physical phenomena, nothing changes here as far as the fifth generation network is concerned, or relatively little changes. The limits and electromagnetic fields are what they were, and the bill doesn't change that. But I would also ask you very much to understand, because we are in a very difficult situation. Because fears and fears are very easy to spread, alarming content is very easy to reproduce, and we need to respond to them, and we can't put them out as easily as we can. Because we have to answer them substantively, and that is never one sentence, because these are very complicated phenomena. Therefore, it is very difficult for us to fight against misinformation that appears in this case. Although, of course, we'll be running it. The question was, are there any publications? We've prepared such a publication. It is also spoken ill of, even though it was prepared by scientists from the Institute of Communications and from the Jagiellonian University. It turns out that one of the oldest universities in Europe is not a university good enough to convince the opponents that reality is different than they claim. So that I would very much encourage your senators, if you are interested, to review this publication - electromagnetic fields and man. We also have a smaller publication, such as to quickly get acquainted, because we wanted it to be quicker, easier to get acquainted with. The senators got it, too. 5 minutes, 5 minutes, 5 minutes, 5 minutes, 5 So, in answer to questions, did... Oh, I'd still like to say 'Cause I was trying to do something, but I lost track of it. In the publication we have prepared, as well as in another report, the report of the Institute of Communications, available on the website and prepared together with the College Medicum of the Jagiellonian University, was carried out so-called. a systematic review of the tests, i.e. all the tests that have been carried out over the past few decades on the electromagnetic field. The conclusion of this review was similar to that of the rapporteur in another report, a report by the medical institute in Łódź. I would just like to say that exactly a month ago there was a conference, the largest conference in the world devoted to electromagnetic field and its impact on living organisms, a conference in Montpellier. And it was at this conference that scientists from all over the world once again established, they said out loud that when it comes to electromagnetic fields produced by devices on radio frequencies, i.e. those frequencies that use mobile systems and which are much lower than e.g. The frequency of visible light waves, there's no... there's no negative effect. I'm prolonging, but I'm just gonna say one more thing. World... Or maybe I'll finish. Unless there are additional questions... Tell me. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a 1984 limit on the intensity of the electromagnetic field. These are limits that were, of course, set at a time when the state of knowledge was quite different from what it is today. We are one of the last three countries on the map of the European Union in which such restrictive limits apply. They are 100 times more restrictive than the limits in other countries. However, for many years, since 1996, the World Health Organization has been saying that 100-fold more liberal limits are potentially carcinogenic, and this classifies the intensity in category 2B. As you can hear what I've said now, there's some kind of concern because I said something is potentially carcinogenic. Let's just go a little further. There are three categories of carcinogenicity of the various factors that surround us, as indicated by the World Health Organization. These are potentially carcinogens, possibly carcinogens and carcinogens. Among the potentially carcinogenic factors, i.e. those that may or may not be carcinogenic, we place these 100 times higher, 100 times more liberal limits, 100 times higher levels of electromagnetic field. In the same group you will find aloes, children's talk, nickel-plated earrings. It's very... As far as possibly carcinogens are concerned, here we are talking, for example. of red meat and drinking hot drinks. So you see: science is We've got professors in the O.R. The base is, the knowledge is, we gain it, scientists gain knowledge every day, but no self-respecting scientist seems to be able to say on this subject that something is 100% like that or 100% different. He will say that according to today's state of knowledge an electromagnetic field of 100 times higher than we have in Poland is harmless, but we do not know what will turn out to be 20 years from now. And we don't know what's gonna happen, for example. 20 years from now, if we continue to test the water. Maybe there's a factor out there that we don't know about today, and that's not harmful. These are very difficult issues. However, I would like to reassure you in this respect and say that we are taking this very seriously, very responsible. We create an electromagnetic field monitoring system within the framework of the Act. We want to know that those standards that apply to us are being respected. It seems that this is a law that should respond precisely to social concerns, especially since what we propose, as far as the limits are concerned, the matter that I have now referred to, is not their change, but the transfer of property precisely because the Minister of the Environment has established them so far, and concerns arise in the area of health. We therefore want the Minister of Health responsible for public health to determine this in order to ensure that our citizens are safe in this area. And that's why I'm asking you to support the bill. Maybe I'll end up like this.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u43	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Czerwinski a question. Then Senator Probie and Jackowski. And gentlemen, Senators Radziwill and Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u44	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are actually dealing with three issues here. The first is those limits you mentioned. They're from 1984. Do you, as a government, expect to change these limits? Because what else is the subject who will determine it and what else is the issue of change. Is it even possible to implement this 5G technology with current limits? That's the first line. Second line. Well, what else is a radio line, and what else is reception in a popular mobile camera... It goes on for example. About watching the movie, just about the usual pickup, the phone call. Well, the thing is, some of these waves have the same length as the frequency in the microwaves. Are we okay with this or not? But radio lines, Mr. Senator... Mr. Senator, you're welcome to ask the question. We don't question the Minister like that. Question, answer. Well, that's the question... the role of the minister is rather to put an end to our fears, so I'm going to ask you how you can explain to our ordinary, average citizen, why radiation isn't harmful.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u45	Thank you very much. Senator Probier. Please. And then Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u46	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! First of all, let me say that I am very much in favour of progress. In this case, I made a statement to the Minister of Digitization in January this year. I got an answer that surprised me gently that even the scientific community is using fake news. - That's right. - Yeah. I don't really know how to understand your use of half-truth, because a glass half-filled can also be half-empty. So I don't really know how to understand it. I would also like to ask if you can estimate the size of the fibre market in Poland. This is a general estimate of the size of the market, the potential size of the 5G network market. One more question. Namely, what would the concept of small power and small range mean? I'm a technical science representative, and it's not very satisfying for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u47	And Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u48	Thank you very much. Minister, I'll handle the subject I asked you about. Has this law been thoroughly consulted with the relevant institutions responsible for state security in terms of cybersecurity and other aspects of national security? If so, what was the opinion of these institutions? Are we gonna get the material on this? And if we don't, can the Minister provide me with these materials? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u49	Minister, you have your vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u50	Senator Czerwinski's first question was whether we could introduce 5G without limits. More questions... I'll talk to them in a minute. Like I said, we're not changing the limit bill. We have outdated 1984 limits. The Ministry of Digitalization 'Cause on behalf of this ministry, I can talk here. It is in favour of adapting these limits to those recommended by the World Health Organisation, but it will not be the decision of the Ministry of Digitalization, but it will be the decision of the Minister of Health. And that's why the regulation that... the Minister of Health also needs time to prepare for the subject. He has already ordered one report, which was here today in part by the senators of the rapporteurs quoted. But the final decision will be made only after the Minister of Health has carried out additional activities on the subject, so it is difficult for me simply to anticipate his subsequent decision. Can I introduce 5G without limits? Here I have to answer perversely: yes and no. Because it depends on which elements of this standard we use and on which frequencies. There are frequencies, for example. this 700 MHz band, where the use of pico- and microcells is not required, i.e. small devices the size of our mobile phone, which will operate on high bands and which will be located on lamps, on sidewalks, in order to ensure that this network primarily in places where there is a large saturation of devices, ensure. So in part yes, but certainly not fully without changing the limits. But it is also worth saying here, Ladies and gentlemen, that the limits that we have today are slowing down the transmission in the standards that we already use today. Many of you, coming to Warsaw or to another big city, or staying in a place where there is a lot of equipment, e.g. at the National Stadium. where all of a sudden everyone wants to connect to the Internet, they experience the fact that data transmission slows down, even though, as I can assure you with my hand at heart, there is a LTE network throughout Warsaw and there is a 4G network. She's slowing down because the network has its specific performance. The limits also affect this performance. So the question of limits does not apply to a given technology, it concerns mobile communications at all. The senator referred to the radioline and the high frequencies of 26 GHz, which will also be designed, and he referred to a certain half-truth. On the basis of which concerns are also being built, related to the fact that these are the same frequencies as the microwave oven produces. Well, you can't disagree with that, but as far as the microwave is concerned, the power density is several thousand times higher. So this is all about this power density. Any environmental factor - let's be aware - can kill us. We could get killed by water. The rain may drip on us quite nicely when it's a warm summer day, but when we stand under a waterfall, it's water. He'll kill us, or he'll cut the diamond if we point it at him with the right intensity. So that's it... So the dog is buried in power I'm sorry to say this. And in intensity. As for the intensity of this, I'm going to tell you to be aware of this... what generates the highest amount of electromagnetic field in our environment is not a base station that scares first and foremost its appearance, but this is our mobile phone, which has even 20 times higher emissions in a situation where it has a weak range. We've all experienced that when there's a weak range, it's faster. We're getting off the phone. That's because he emits a larger electromagnetic field. So that's the answer to that question. Senator Probier spoke about my definition of half-truth. Ladies and gentlemen, what appears today in public space is some understatements that are used to generate some concern through further understatements. Me, for example. I read about the bill that it is a legal act that will allow the operator to put the mast in the backyard without the consent of its owner, which is simply a complete absurdity. Or I just found out about the frequency that these are frequencies like the microwave, so we're all gonna live in the microwave. I do not allow myself to say that it is not true that it is a lie, so I found the word "half-truth." You asked the senator how to estimate the mobile network market and the fixed network market. I'm not sure I understood the question correctly, but if that's okay, I'll say yes. The 2018 report by the Office for Electronic Communications, which was published a month and a half ago, states that 35% of our telecommunications market in its entirety is a mobile network market and, to the rest of its scope, a fixed network market. Let us remember that the fixed network market is primarily small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and there are almost 3,000 of them in our country, those who build fixed networks. With regard to the mobile network market, I will probably surprise you here too, because we are all thinking about 4 mobile operators, and the Electronic Communications Office last year counted 85 mobile operators in our country. We've been talking about low power and low range. I think I answered that question a few minutes ago, talking about those pico- and microcells. Good. Thank you very much... And my question? Oh, I'm sorry, yes, of course. Mr. Senator, you asked me if the bill was being consulted. The bill went through the whole consultation process. But I think your interest is moving more towards the Cybersecurity Act. This law on the national cybersecurity system in Poland, which implements the NIS Directive, is in our legal system and will soon be updated also due to what has happened in the area of the telecommunications market. I think this will be the moment when we can talk more about it. But, of course, we're going to hand over all the materials, e.g. from the Cyber Security College, the ones that are public, because some of them are reserved. Yet...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u51	Do you want to ask a new question? No, no, ask. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u52	I asked specifically whether this law was consulted with the institutions responsible for State security. You can answer that question, yes or no. Point B: were written material produced on this subject? That was the second question. Point C: if any, can I have access to them or not? That was the content of my questions. This was not about general comments on the legislative process and other laws, as you said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u53	The law was consulted in the framework of the legislative process. It was finally agreed with all interested resorts, including the services. Mr. Senator, I believe these are public remarks. We'll pass them on, collect them, and give them what we can. Yes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u54	Thank you very much. Senator Konstanta Radziwiłł.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u55	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. In fact, I would like to ask, too, because this analogy with the drugs and substitutes that the Minister used is not quite complete. It's not that if something goes wrong, you can buy something not in China, but somewhere else, but rather the phenomenon of a certain civilization war that we're dealing with. There is a Chinese civilization, referred to as a hive civilization, and an alternative in the form of Western civilization, which is more focused on man. And here we are. I think we're all seeing it. With a certain choice about where we want to locate this case. Right? We don't really know exactly what ideas arise in this hive civilization. Recently, the world has been surrounded by information that Lidl in various countries is selling a kitchen robot with a microphone that doesn't know what it's for. Right? This is a Chinese robot. And here's some potential. Maybe it'll work in the future. Or is it not? I repeat, I don't want to be a believer in the conspiracy theory of history, but something's going on. We are also dealing with e.g. with an example of Iceland, which says: we are totally going towards such trust that it doesn't matter where this technology comes from, and we take Chinese... Still in the context of collecting data on individual genomes, all of them... Mr. Senator, but you're giving your opinion. I'm almost done. That's more for discussion. I'd like to ask you a question for the Minister. There are other countries, those that say straight: we choose the American model, American things, etc. Isn't it that we should also make a clear statement in this case, not in such a way that we're going to buy part from Huawei, part from Apple and part from someone else? We should just go in a specific direction, like, for example. some Western European countries, where it has been said at a high political level: we do not want to deal with that model, which is simply dangerous to our civilization. Isn't that the case?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u56	Okay, Mr. Senator. Something like a question. Now, Senator Kazimierz Wind. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u57	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I'll pick up three threads. One. The Minister used some shortcuts of thought that are hard to agree with. E.g. You said the power of a cell phone is greater than the power of a base station. Well, that's... No, no, the one that gets to us. Excuse me... Exactly. These are the shortcuts that for those who think strictly are unacceptable... Yeah, yeah. I'm adjusting. We know that the radiation intensity is decreasing inversely to the square of the distance, so the field volume of 100 m from the base station is radically lower than that of the phone held by the ear. But these are important reservations. It is also difficult to agree with what was said earlier, i.e. I think it's harmless at all. We know that in the case of certain electromagnetic fields, its harmfulness is obvious... Question, Professor. ...and in the case of the low, it is of course harmless. I'm gonna ask you a question. I'm on my way to conclusion. We are talking about this midrange and we expect information to what extent We're moving. Second thing. I very much appreciate this extensive statement on cybersecurity and certification, but we know that for now there is a monopoly on 5G technology, and, given the complexity of these devices, both in hardware and software terms, its full certification is impossible. I mean, we know that... Question, Mr. Senator. Two more sentences. There is an example of the Pentium, from the Pentium II to the current model. There's a bug that allows you to eavesdrop on data in the cloud. But that's how we get to the discussion. Ask me a question, Professor. My question is: to what extent does this certification take place? Because she's not 100% certified, she can't say it's safe.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u58	Okay, thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. Ask me a question, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u59	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I, too, am not very satisfied with the Minister's answer, and I would also ask for precision. I'm going back to those standards. You said you were in favour of harmonising these standards. I understand that in this case it is an increase, i.e. that they will be possible bigger Field intensity, 100 times higher. If this is possible in the rest of Europe, harmonisation here would be an increase. I'd ask you to write it down. Second of all, you haven't put me off my fears, and yet I'm sure... It's not even about me, but it's about those who might be watching and listening, because if the transmission devices are so common They will not be in the form of masts set every few kilometers, but actually in the infrastructure of everyday use Even those who do not want to use 5G phones will be exposed to these fields. Do we agree on that or not? Thank you very much... If so, I would ask a really simple text to alleviate the concerns of those who have these fears. Please don't treat the nation as a darkhold, just say it isn't.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u60	Mr. Senator, that last remark was unnecessary. Minister, you have your vote. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u61	Mr. Senator, I now address Senator Radziwiel. I think we've both read the Huntington Clash of Civilization. In any case, indeed, it should be concluded from your statement that we should be able to speak up in some way. But these are already geopolitical, international issues. We as the Ministry of Digitalization agree with our best knowledge And this approach was accepted by the Cybersecurity College, and we have made recommendations in which we call for the creation of the whole system. Because we need to be sure not about the equipment of one supplier or one category of suppliers from one country. We need to make sure in a few years. And we don't know where we're gonna be in a few years, in what geopolitical situation we're gonna be in, what we have on our network is gonna be as safe as possible. That's my answer to the question. It is difficult to refer to what has already been said about the geopolitical expression of our country in the international arena, which is already beyond my competence. To answer Senator Wind's doubts... In fact, I admit here that, as I said, in our environment, the strongest emitting... So, of course, these base stations, within the meaning of the base stations we're thinking about today, which is the masts I'm talking about. They are well designed and must meet height and distance requirements and must take into account the places available to the population, which are also legally defined. And now I'm going to refer to cybersecurity. The senator said we're dealing with a monopoly. I can't agree with that, sir, about the supplier you told the senator about. I would certainly be tempted to say that it is one of the most advanced suppliers in the production of 5G equipment, but it is not a monopoly. It seems to me that even tomorrow is to be the presentation of devices of another supplier, whose name I do not want to mention, so that it is not promoted in this Chamber. Mr. Senator, it seems to me that he understands, and I think by his statement he was trying to express that, in fact, when it comes to technology, this is where you chase a bunny. This is another field that introduces certain risks. What we can do is make these risks as small as possible, but we'll never be 100% sure. The whole world's working on it, but there could always be someone who's gonna come up with something that we weren't able to protect ourselves from in the certification system tomorrow. It's obvious. Mr Senator, of course we are talking about harmonisation and, speaking of harmonisation, we are talking about the fact that the Ministry of Digitalization believes that we should have limits as they apply in the other countries of the European Union. I would also like to say that even higher, much, much more liberal limits are in the United States, in some areas in Japan they are not at all, and we cannot say that they are countries that do not care about the health and life of their citizens. But, like I said, it's not gonna be our decision, it's gonna be the health minister's decision. You said the 5G transmission devices would be common. Mr. Senator, broadcasting devices are already common today. It's probably in your pocket. It's also a broadcast device. It's also emitting. And besides the fact that he's broadcasting... Like I said... I have a choice. I may not use it. And if it's on the sidewalk, you won't have a choice. That's the difference. Yes. Except there's one more thing to remember. The electromagnetic field is emitted not only by a mobile phone. It is emitted by the receiver, through the socket, well, our body also emits such a field, in very, very low ranges of course... Everything, of course... On other frequencies. ...on other frequencies. But it's an electromagnetic field, too. So everything, let's remember, everything depends on... much has been said today about the principle of caution. We apply this principle of caution. And so is most of the world. Just through the limits. Of course, I'm trying to explain all this in as simple a way as I can. But, like I said, it's not like anybody treats society like a dark fence, but it's really very difficult for us to respond to fear, anxiety, and emotional merology. It's just hard. It's very difficult to calm society, people who are told that their lives are in danger, a long line of physics. So, of course, we're going to do this, we're going to do it in the simplest way we know, and I hope it's the best we can do, but it's a very uneven fight.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u62	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for you... I have a question. Oh, they're still here. Good. Senator Czudowska, Senator Silence, Senator Wind. Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, by reading... Because you're perfectly prepared. We admire your young mind here. Is there any mention in the materials that the effects of electromagnetic radiation on human health are greater than the effects of smoking?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u64	Senator Zbigniew Silence. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u65	Minister, I would like to ask you one question in relation to Senator Wind's statement, which indicated that there are, of course, certain standards for the maintenance of these devices, so that the radiation is within safe limits. Or in a situation where we entrust the maintenance of such devices to individuals, e.g. from China, there will be no risk that... Well, we can ask ourselves, can we not even use these devices as a kind of weapon by deliberately neglecting to maintain radiation standards and causing massive negative effects that might resemble a kind of environmental bomb or such war activities as the use of chemical weapons?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u66	Senator Wind. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u67	Mrs. Marshal urges me to speak briefly, so it will be brief. Minister, these thought shortcuts again... What is the intensity of the field emitted by the electrical socket 50 Hz? Well, a little measure in all this... Of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u68	Good. As I understand it, there are no more questions. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u69	As far as cigarettes are concerned, Senator, they have been classified by the World Health Organization as carcinogens, which is clearly... There is no doubt that their smoking can cause cancer, cancer. To answer Senator Silence's question, and more to his concerns... Well, we're introducing an electromagnetic field monitoring and control system on the basis of the law. We don't have limits to make sure they're being applied. Since we decide to apply the precautionary principle to the introduction of limits, let us be sure that these limits are being met. And today is a very big problem. This was also said by the Supreme Audit Chamber in its report published in May this year, in which it showed how leaky it is that, so to speak, the whole process, how little can be read from the documents collected. We have decided here to approach all of this from a completely different angle, fully inform, unify this process. And at the same time we do It's also to calm society a little bit. Because every citizen will have access to the system, anyone will be able to access the website, see where the base station is located in its surroundings, and with what intensity the electromagnetic field emits. What we're still doing under the provisions of the law is to provide additional equipment for the authorities that control operators. Those are the ones that the Supreme Audit Office has said have outdated devices that are underfunded. Thanks to the arrangements with the finance minister in the OSR, it has been pointed out that they will be given additional resources just to be equipped. So it seems like this is the first time Also in response to the concerns not only of the public, but also regarding the security of the entire network, cybersecurity, we introduce a monitoring system, a control system. Senator, in answer to your plea, I will say that my sentences usually precede the other sentences I have spoken. I was talking about the fact that we're immersed in an electromagnetic field, so... of course, these are different frequencies... [[It's a terrible example.]] Okay, well, then I'll find another one to make sure these comparisons are more accurate. So that I accept it, I also understand the point of precision.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u70	Thank you very much. I don't see any more questions. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm opening the discussion. I'll ask Senator Jan Maria Jackowski to speak. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u71	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister State 'Cause you're also in the courtroom, Minister of Justice! Referring to the last sentence of the Minister's statement, it can be said that this law is such immersion in various types of lobbying. What do I mean? The first point: it is known that the development of new technologies this is an area that is one of the most sensitive areas of the global economic system. The direction of development of new technologies depends very much on the world economy and the way people live today, so it also has a civilization dimension. Therefore, any project which, as it were, enters a new era, uses new technologies, disseminates these new technologies, will obviously arouse emotions, will also stimulate discussions. Because we are talking about new technologies, we are also entering an area that is particularly sensitive in today's world, namely the area of security. And as far as cybersecurity is concerned, this is the foundation of today's security. Let's imagine a situation in which, for example. In Poland, electricity was shut off for 24 hours, delivery to all customers was interrupted, not only in Poland, but also in any European country or in the United States. What effect would this have? I don't think I have to explain that in this House. Of course, this is a hypothetical threat, but some say that theoretically such things are technologically possible. The issue of this security is so important because we are a front country in the sense that we are the eastern flank of the North Atlantic Pact. We are in very good alliances with the United States. We know that President Donald Trump is coming for three days, including. for celebrations, for celebrations related to the anniversary of tragic events, the 80th anniversary of the outbreak of World War II. We know we have allies. We know that when it comes to cyberspace at all, there is a very lively public discourse, because different institutions, different politicians have spoken about it. And we also know that there is a company, this is a Chinese company, which is accused of using different procedures... I will not define these procedures, call them, but they may have to do with national security. That's why I think And that's why my questions were going in this direction. The fact that since we are a central country in Europe, a 40 million-dollar market, on such matters is extremely important, so it is like a certain lobbying for security... On the other hand, we have economic lobbying because it is not indifferent... It's not like we're the technological power, we have our own equipment, our own technologies, our own know-how, and we're going to build on these resources on the 5G network. No, we're gonna use imports. It is important where we will import from, so it is also a matter of certain lobbying related to this area of operation, an extremely important issue. Finally, the issue which, from a social point of view, raises the most discussion or the most concerns, is the issue of health. I don't want to talk about research here and whether it's possible. I would like to tell you about my personal visit to a doctor whom I asked years ago, because of the health status of the products I can consume. It's about what kind of drinks I can drink. Dr. Gastrologer told me: sir, the juice in the cartons is poison, there's research on it; you can drink water. I asked about a very famous drink around the world, which has been produced for nearly 100 years and produced by a global concern. And the doctor looked at me like that... and she said, sir, and that's interesting, there's no research on the health of this product! Well, I ask: how is it possible, after all, there are so many theories about the other qualities of this drink, besides the food qualities of, for example. that it can be rusted off screws that can be useful for other purposes And there are no studies on this? And she says, well, you see, the company has a very prudent policy in this area. So she made it clear why these tests weren't there. And in this case, you could do 50 years of research because the company and this product are present on the market, as I said, for nearly 100 years. I give this example because it gives a lot to think about. For me, the arguments that these tests can't be done... Well, there's a prudent principle that if we don't know the consequences of our actions, it's better to consider whether such action should be taken at all. If we as parliamentarians don't have a set of data... I don't want to say who's right, who's wrong, what it looks like. I merely state that in fact both the Sejm and the Senate are proceeding over this law, without having the dare to claim . full expertise on any related consequences. And that is the truth about this legislative process. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u72	Thank you, Senator. You have a voice, Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u73	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! A lot of people were talking about threats here, and Senator Jackowski was just talking about a company. Well, it's an American company, so... I've heard these earlier arguments that the Chinese Oh, my God! And so on and so on, and the senator has shown that he can swim from America, too... How do you know which company I was talking about? Because I know what the screws are rusting off. So that I know exactly. Mr. Senator, dear colleagues, Zanussi, perhaps Zanussi, made this film: Life as a deadly sexually transmitted disease. And so it is that we have progress in civilization, and what surrounds us and what helps us, unfortunately also brings threats. I think if we want civilization progress, we're just doomed to this technology and these threats. And I think... I have read your comments on the choice of the Chinese as an attack on the legitimacy of this decision by the Ministry of Digitalization. It's kind of like you think the Minister of Digitization is kind of suspended in the air and functioning next to the government. Oh, no. I cannot imagine that such a decision would be taken entirely in isolation and from the Prime Minister, and from KPRM, etc., etc. It's just impossible. I sense here... That's why I'm saying you can't just talk about the Minister of Digitization here because it's about the whole government. And if you're criticizing this decision, you're criticizing your entire government. And at the very end, I discovered... Mr. Minister, Senator Radziwiłł spoke here about the comparison with Chinese drugs and the threat... Only with one cure. I've heard the media say in the last two weeks that there's no drug problem. Thank you for confirming that there is a problem. [[Talking in the O.R.]] And he really does. You're right. The fact that at some point we put Chinese substitutes. And that's what led to... No. Yeah, that's exactly what happened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u74	You have a voice, Senator Bobko.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u75	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ministers! High Izbo! I have some comments about this interesting, difficult, actually even exciting discussion, because apart from technical issues such as engineering or health, medical and others we also touch on issues here, I would say, civilization. That is why I would like to share a few thoughts. The question is: how much progress, how much stability, how much stability? Our lives, man's life, the development of civilization are kind of spread between these two poles. Progress, change, stability, stabilization, we need both. Reaching as if to our roots, I will say that the discussion at all about the nature of the world, constancy and change is actually the first great philosophical problem that has been considered in Greece. And it's worth remembering here... Because we for a good few hundred years have been in the pragmatism of civilization of change and progress, but it is worth remembering and realizing that people, our ancestors, for at least a thousand years... Probably longer, but let's say that in this civilization that we already have well documented, in the Middle Ages, for a good thousand years people lived as if in the paradigm of stability, lack of change, and just stabilization was a value. And it was this. Contrary to what is said about the Middle Ages A civilisation that is passionate, beautiful and producing just, let's say, fascinating fruit. So man can live not only in the name of progress. It's worth knowing, it's worth remembering. We often forget whether we exclude such a prospect at all. Of course you shouldn't take it so that I'm the enemy of progress. I am a man of modern, modern civilization and I value progress. It is worth noting, however, that progress is not the only possible alternative. In turn, if progress is speeding up too much, then... You could use an analogy here. If systems or certain systems in nature accelerate too much if there is no kind of feedback and braking mechanism, such systems must explode sooner or later. So progress must also be marked as a rational braking mechanism. And that's why I'm coming back to thinking about some balance, pointing to balance between progress and constancy, stabilization. And as for this particular problem that we are talking about, it is like an illustration and such a very interesting case in this perspective. This problem is complicated. I see it in such a way that when we enter into these specific problems we are talking about, we enter into a very complicated world, but also into a misty world. In a world where it is difficult to get a clear thesis, as if a decisive argument. In fact, we have to weigh the rations and at best rely on them with a certain probability. But I have a question I'm asking myself, and it's still, I'd say, deeper. How far can we continue to use certain proven mechanisms, proven civilization mechanisms, mechanisms that have worked for hundreds of years in the past? In my view, it is a matter of freedom of decision, both for individuals and for communities, but of freedom of decision based on rational discernment of reality, i.e. on the basis of scientific arguments, scientific recognition. And that's what we have a lot of problems with. I only briefly, because this is again a matter of longer consideration, I would like to focus on the issues of science, the role of science and scientists in all of this. Because here I see a huge problem, a problem of decreasing confidence in the opinion, the expertise that scientists present. Today we live in civilization and in a culture of distrust, a multifaceted lack of trust. I am no longer talking about the world of politics, because also in the world of science there is less and less confidence in expertise and growing belief that an expert can simply buy that obtaining specific expertise is just a matter of money. Unfortunately, many such examples can be given. Worse yet, in a way, we... Well, there's been a lot of discussion about that, even on the sidelines of the reform of the higher education and science system, hasn't there? One element of this reform was also a certain thesis, and it is probably right that scientists need to be more dynamic, that funding should be funding from grants, from resources that need to be effectively obtained, so that scientists do not grow fat, because if we give them long-term funding in the form of a lifetime job or 20 years, they will grow fat and do nothing. A little may be so, because scientists are also human, but there is also a price for funding dynamic, grant science, namely that some research or some difficult topics may simply not be financed. This is a clear restriction of effective scientific freedom not by censorship, not by means of a gun attached to your head and saying that you must not do it, but by saying: if you want, then you can do it as a hobbyist, but you will not have funding. And we clearly see that today many important topics are poorly studied, so to speak, because there is no financial means to do so. These most spectacular or controversial areas are, for example, the problem of vaccine research. All this discussion about the impact of vaccination of children or populations on specific diseases... Here the freedom of scientific research is, to put it mildly, limited. Another example that comes to mind is research into homosexuality It's true, isn't it? Well, this kind of research today for financial and financial reasons, and ideological reasons, are very limited. You could probably multiply these examples. And here too, no doubt. Well, that's intuitive, I'd say. We are faced with such a problem that these new solutions translate into a huge business, because this is probably a multi-market - a multi-billion-dollar, so some research can be financed and others can't, which has specific effects. So in this sense, we are a little doomed to such a key in a complicated and foggy world, in which it is difficult, so to speak, with confidence, to refer to specific studies that concern, for example. the negative effects of such or other factors on our health. I don't have any conclusions or recommendations here. I think I can finally think of a bon mot of my master, Fr. Tischner, who in another context, still in the late communism, said that we were doomed to draw true conclusions from false and false premises. And a little bit in a world like this, unfortunately, we're moving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u76	Thank you, Senator. Senator Radziwiel's voice is yours.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u77	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If you don't mind, sir, I'd like to begin with a correction procedure first, because Senator Pociej was addressing me directly to some... With all due respect, sometimes it's better not to talk about something we don't know about. One, the only medicine that was actually missing, and basically several preparations containing one substance. It's going to be more precise. The substance, which is called "Tyroxine' or "Levotyroxin', which is a thyroid hormone, is essentially produced by 2 international companies, both absolutely European: one is purely German and the other is German-Italian. And there are no Chinese substitutes, because these manufacturers of the most original drugs produce drugs based on supplies from manufacturers of a substance that comes from China. In Poland there is no Chinese substitute in this respect. So let's just be precise. This medicine was indeed missing as a result of the mechanism I described in the question. And now ad rem. First of all, I would like to say very strongly that I am wholeheartedly in favour of this law. She is well prepared, necessary, necessary for all of us as citizens, for economic development, education, practically all dimensions of life. And I would also very much like to say what I have already signaled in the question that there is no data and there is no need to make any additional extraordinary efforts and research, which does not mean that no research should be conducted at all. On the health impact of the solutions proposed in this law, i.e. the so-called. 5G networks. There's no rational reason to deal with this case in some extraordinary way. Of course, the fact that we live in the world of electromagnetic radiation has already fallen here many times. Yes, it is. In this room, even if we all get rid of cell phones and other electronic devices, just cables that run in the walls, also produce electromagnetic radiation and it affects us. Well, that's the way it is. On the other hand, it must be said that the world in which we live is many times healthier, even when we use the juice from the cartons and the liquid that we were talking about and some people try to rust the screws off. Although this is a very bad method, there are better things to rust the screws... Despite all this, the world we live in is definitely healthier. And the best proof of that is that we live a lot longer than we do. Those who lived in times that some described as throwing stones at dinosaurs. In those days people lived much shorter, even though they were not exposed to radiation, and in any case not to that extent, because of course electromagnetic radiation also appeared in that world, but it was much less than in our world. So this world is safe, it's healthy. And even if we use different things that we know about certain risks, these risks are certainly not big enough to hesitate to introduce these new solutions. So this law is really good in every way, even in terms of health safety There's no doubt about it. However, I would like to return to the postulate, although it is on the occasion of this law rather than on the issue of this law. It seems, however, that the choice of who will build this network, what elements we will satisfy it, what devices we will install in it, is not just a market, financial, technological matter, but a civilization matter. Who knows if this isn't the moment we should seriously consider Of course not the Minister, the Undersecretary, what I say with all due respect, the Undersecretary in the Ministry, but the point is to have a proper political debate on this subject. The way in which we should go and what choice we should be in. This is already the choice made by individual countries in the world. It seems that this is really the moment when perhaps taking some false step will be more or less burdened with the risk of irreversibleity. I'm very cordially appealing. Through the Minister to the Government, to the Prime Minister, but of course also to all of us politicians. The question is whether the fact that sometimes from the East is cheaper, easier and easier should tempt us. But should we not note that in civilization it is very dangerous? Terrifying information about what this new technology is used for in China - control of citizens, influence on their behaviour, etc. In my opinion, as well as the emerging information about some strange elements of electronic equipment that comes to Europe or other countries in the world from there, it is enough to think about this, but not at the technology level of individual, possible substitutes, only in the context of which direction we should go. Of course, it's not like the world in the west is perfect. and that the United States is some world of freedom without any restrictions and there are no risks there. We've all been hearing about eavesdropping by the U.S. military, e.g. European politicians. This raises a legitimate objection, but we are obviously closer to this civilization. At the same time, it's worth looking at from a perspective... In my opinion, in this discussion on various types of threats related to modern technologies, with artificial intelligence And here, too, there's a request made to the Minister, because your department's on it. We should... It is obvious that we should also develop in this direction. There's one international or national entity that we don't talk about, because it doesn't work out, so to speak, in terms of technology, but in my opinion, I don't think it's just me. It is much closer to this Chinese model of civilization; this is Russia. It's just that this is all happening in some particular world and those who want to control the world through the Internet and modern technologies... Someone might ask what we're supposed to be afraid of when China is so far away. Yes? But there are other countries on the way, for example. Russia, which is certainly closer to that model. I think that's why we should be really, really careful. Once again, I stress very strongly that this has nothing to do with... this is not a criticism of this bill. This bill is good and, of course, I will vote for it without any doubt, but it is a moment when it is worth getting some air and thinking which way we are going. In my opinion, there may be very broad consensus among political environments, different political environments, because the threats I am talking about are of a civilization nature. I think that about most of it, almost everyone, or maybe we all agree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u78	Thank you, Senator. This is the second time Senator Pociej will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u79	Mr. Marshal, the subject is a little different... But Senator Radziwił said so, he threw the problem in, and then he decided to tell me that you should know something about it, so, I understand, the senator cut me off a little bit for what I said about your statement on the justice system. I'll admit, you might be more familiar with that. But I'd like to correct one thing. The Chief Pharmacy Council a few months ago alerted that 500 drugs were missing, not one, but 324 products in the list of products at risk of lack published by the Ministry of Health in July. Threatened by lack. Yeah, at risk of lack. Yes, sir. As for the problem with the Chinese product, which is... Chinese substitutes That's what you used to say. Yeah, yeah. This is stupid... Okay, Chinese component. Yes? ...Chinese replacements. Okay, component. I think it's been known for three years. Well, if such a component is allowed, based on only the price, from countries such as China and India And everyone knows what quality problems they have there. This can be predicted that when quality procedures start there, factories will be closed and there will be a problem with the availability of the component at our disposal. The whole world knows that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u80	Thank you. You have a voice, Senator Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u81	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I'm very short. Since I have asked the Minister for precision, I cannot fail to comment on the Senator's statement here, which also improved his previous speaker. This example of 50 Hz cables in the walls is fatal. We know that the promotion of electromagnetic waves, as far as the source is concerned, is an antenna. In the case of 50 Hz, the antenna would have to have a completely different size, size. It depends on the RLC parameters, i.e. capacity, induction, resistance. That's why it's a terrible example. I was already paying attention to the fact that the wall socket is also a terrible example. And I'm taking the floor because... ladies and gentlemen, I can take it, I can listen to it, I can treat it as a shortcut or some obvious mistake, but we're thinking about people who are turning to us. We get hundreds of e-mails, these people expect precise, smart answers. That was why these questions were for the Minister, so that we could wisely establish these arguments, so that we could give them so that we could know that there is an area of uncertainty, there is a certain area of certainty for us to have these areas well defined and identified. Well, the wires in the walls and the sockets are a very bad example. At the same time, while I'm standing here, I would like to say that thank you very much, Minister, for these extensive parts of cybersecurity. They sounded good here. Although not all the detailed parts of my question may have been answered, maybe this was the answer, maybe it was better. In any case, this is indeed an important issue and I think that awareness of certain situations is as important as effectiveness. This awareness causes us to use certain devices and technologies wisely. We know what it involves, we use it, we're aware of it. So thank you very much, Minister, for these fragments. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u82	Senator Probie has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u83	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I was very brief on the subject that you raised, Senator Radziwiłł, about addiction to China. I would like to speak in an area where, I think, I am competent, namely in the field of raw materials. I've got a list of the so-called ones in front of me. Critical raw materials of the European Union in September 2017 Well, maybe they're newer, but I'll give you some information about that. Antimony raw material: main producer China, 90% imports from China, the EU's dependence of 100%. Barith: China is the main producer, the dependence of the Union. 80%. Bismuth: China controls 82% worldwide production, imports.84% , the European Union's addiction. 100%. Coking coal, which is also on the list: 54% from China, 63% of the European Union is dependent on imports. Fluorite: China 64%, import dependency 70%. Gal: 85% from China, the dependence of the Union. Luckily here we have some deposits. 34%. German: China 67%, EU dependence on imports 64%. Ind: China - 57% Well, luckily we have him here, too, in the European Union, and we're not addicted. Of course, these examples could be given more, but I would like to conclude by drawing the attention of the High Senate to rare earth heavy metals, these are those used in these modern technologies, in the cells that each of us has. Production of China - 95% , the European Union's addiction. 100%. These are rare earth metals. The world's main producer is China - 95% and the European Union's dependence is 100%. That's it, thank you. Some of the raw materials on this list are in Poland, unfortunately their exploitation has been discontinued. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u84	Thank you, Senator. The list of speakers has been exhausted. For the sake of order, I would like to inform you that you have tabled proposals of a legislative nature in writing by Senator Grabowski. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? No, thank you. Thank you. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the Establishment of the The text of the Act is contained in print No 1233, and the report of the Commission In print No 1233 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u85	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Senate! Minister! I am very pleased to be able to present the report of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions on the Act adopted by the Sejm on 4 July 2019 amending the Law on the establishment of the The aim of the Act is to increase the amount for the implementation of the Prison Service modernisation programme in the years 2017 and 2020 by PLN 4 million, 693 thousand. At the committee meeting, Minister Michał Wójcik was present, who presented the principles of this law. There was no discussion, all the senators unanimously passed the bill. At the same time, I can say that Senator Alexander Pociej spoke and congratulated the Minister for this very good bill. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions therefore requests that this law be adopted without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u86	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Are there any such questions? None of your senators... Rulewski. You're Senator Rulewski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u87	Senator rapporteur, although the title of the Act refers to modernisation of service, I understand that the service does not work in a vacuum and does not only care for prisoners, but also for prisoners of workers. Two or three years ago, we were promised a powerful development of the production base in prisons. And here's my question: have you discussed the extent to which this task was carried out during the sitting? Have we discussed the preparation of the Prison Service, which is the manager of these facilities, if I recall correctly, at least 8? What are the effects of this program?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u88	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u89	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, this was not discussed at the committee meeting. All I can say is it's a technical bill. Of course, as you rightly pointed out, this programme is in place and working. It is only about increasing resources in certain areas.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u90	Thank you. Are there any further questions? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Minister Michał Wójcik like to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Come on up to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u91	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! It is so repaired by the technical law, because the funds are already paid. We just have to. It's a formal legal point of view to put them in a specific place. This is the prison service modernisation programme for the period 2017-2020. It is about securing expenditure on the salaries of officials and the remuneration of civil servants employed in the Prison Service as a result of the increase in the number of posts. And the number of jobs has been increased in 2 areas. The number of posts increased by more than 300, precisely on 313 because of the changes introduced by the Law of 16 September 2011 on the amendment of the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Law on the Prosecutor's Office and the Act on the National Court Register. The point is that prisoners can be transported from other countries to Poland and the other way in the European Union and execute imprisonment. These 313 jobs are jobs for... The point is simply to strengthen the Prison Service on a permanent basis, because there are more prisoners. Second area. There are 250 jobs here, including 125 civil servants and 125 civil servants. It's about the changes to the electronic surveillance system we talked about here a few months ago. The point is, the full responsibility for SDE has taken over the prison service. These jobs were needed to carry out specific tasks, not only in the monitoring headquarters, but also in the field. And that's what these jobs are for. For this reason, as regards the system of remuneration of the Prison Service officers, for 2019 we provide for 1 million 766 000 1 million 627 000 for salaries and 139 000 for related expenditure. In 2020 it will be 1 million 901 thousand. The salary will be 1 million 627 thousand, for annual prizes 135 thousand, and for expenditure related It's 139,000. As far as civil workers are concerned, for 2019 we anticipate 492 thousand, of which 410 thousand for wages and 82 thousand for wage derivatives. This is the financial impact calculated for 114 jobs. There were 125 jobs, but 11 were transferred to the Institute of Crime and Penitentiary. For 2020, 534 thousand PLN was foreseen, including the remuneration of PLN.410 thousand, for the additional annual salaries of 35 thousand PLN and for derivatives of 89 thousand PLN. This means that changes should be made to the law in the Prison Service modernisation programme. The aim is to increase the financial resources in the special-purpose reserve by 2 million 258 thousand in 2019 and to increase the financial resources in the budget of the Central Prison Service Board by PLN 2 million 435 thousand in 2020. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u92	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Rulewski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u93	Thank you. Minister, the links between the word "modernization" and the words "financial services" can be found by force. This link is the word I would like to ask the Minister whether, given the fact that almost two years ago it was taken over from a commercial institution, this system is fully operational. Why are the signals coming to me - or at least six months ago - that in some places he did not surprise me? That's the first question. And second question. Modernization meant carrying out new tasks, including taking up an economic activity. As I remember, Minister Jak and Minister Ziobro always remained in exile, he argued that in the near future - that is, I understand that right now, because it is the end of the term of office - the establishment of 8 production plants, or actually 8 halls. I found one before my previous term. Can you tell me where I can see these halls and where this is the control center of the electronic surveillance system? Or maybe even you can help me with that.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u94	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u95	Thank you very much. As for the electronic surveillance system, Senator, you remember the intriguing conversation... Indeed, certain tasks were performed by one of the private companies, by means of a public procurement, this company won and carried out certain sentences - not all, because the monitoring unit is located in Warsaw. And you can see how this electronic surveillance is being implemented. This is intriguing. I can even say that if there are no legal obstacles - and I don't think there will - I can invite the senator to see how this is done in practice. If there is no legal obstacle I don't think... We've already watched... Oh, you've been watching. Exactly. Yeah, twice. Exactly. And the issue that has been regulated is a matter of action on the ground. And it works well, according to my knowledge. I don't have any information about any problems with this system. Since the Central Prison Service Board took full responsibility, no such information has reached me, and I had the opportunity to meet with General Naszyowski about two weeks ago. He was responsible for it for years, and he did not report any problems to me in this regard. Let's be glad that about 5,000 people are in this system today, because it's a lot. I remind you of a time when this solution was actually brought to the penalty of the restriction of freedom, so these people were much less. Today, according to the system, if a person is sentenced to 12 months imprisonment, he may apply to the penitentiary for the purpose of serving in the electronic surveillance system. So he's serving a sentence of imprisonment in terms of freedom with a famous electronic band. Of course, the question is whether this system could not be extended. He should be extended. 'Cause it's not just that. non-alimenters put in prisons to carry out prison sentences and cost the state and taxpayer PLN 3.5 thousand, while 10 times less costs the execution of the electronic surveillance system and can be done. We have made such changes in a law that affects various changes in the criminal code and the implementing criminal code, and which has been prosecuted. I would like to say very clearly that there is a provision that talks about the possibility of extending this system to a period of up to a year and a half imprisonment, so more people could be punished in this electronic surveillance system. But, as you know, at the moment, this law has been passed by the President to the Constitutional Court and is being examined for the correctness of the entire legislative process. Well, I just regret that there may not have been any deeper discussion, for example, about the kind of legislation that has been expected for many years, so that more people can use the electronic surveillance system. And that's the answer to the senator's first question. As far as the issue of modernisation is concerned, I have all the material showing what has been done as part of this modernisation. This is 12 areas, so I'm not going to read it to you. That's a lot, that's a lot of money. It must be remembered that the Prison Service is the only service, a uniform formation that has never had a modernisation program. This service, the Prison Service, has really developed a lot over the last few years, thanks to this money. This is PLN 1.5 billion for all kinds of things, e.g. For weapons, for vehicles. The entire infrastructure is being built, it is developed among others. Thanks to this program. This is big money and it is very good that such money in the budget, throughout the financial system, has emerged under a special programme to be implemented by 2020. As far as the construction of the halls is concerned, 25 of them were created, if I remember correctly whether 25... No, no, sorry, 25 of them were created. I can't give you the amounts. All the halls for which you announced Minister Patrick Jak were to be 40, if I remember correctly. We can visit such a hall, there is no problem to try to visit a place where there is a well-run process of rehabilitation of prisoners. The more prisoners work, the better. Today, Mr. Senator, over 80% of those prisoners who can work are working. That means they can pay their dues. But your... No, Mr. Senator. With this job 7% As far as I remember, it's being transferred to the Justice Fund. Thanks to this, the Justice Fund today has more money and we can transfer funds from the Justice Fund, among others. Volunteer firefighters. Let me remind you that in 2019 they were given 108 million PLN. This allows people to feel safer because volunteers are the first to arrive at accident scenes, have defibrillators, have special stretchers, have special scissors, are best equipped, for the first time in years. It's because of this. You have to look at it as an element of the whole system. It's very good that this system was created. At the moment, there are 17 more halls under construction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u96	Nobody asks questions. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u97	Since Senator Mikołajczyk called me to the board, I would like to confirm directly, Minister, if you get out of the hands of Senator Rulewski... I would like to confirm that I really enjoyed the fact that I could commend the government in the person of the Minister for a very good initiative. That's one thing. Secondly, I am very pleased with what the Minister has just said about the need and fairness of expanding electronic surveillance. I must say that, in a time of course, I am very pleased that this problem is apparent to our ministry under the authority of Minister Ziobra. Gentlemen, I see you're wondering about it. I'd have one request. Well, here I won't get an answer, I won't be able to get it right now. Well, we are going to proceed, Minister, today or tomorrow on the bill amending the Act on Pension Supply of Police Officers, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, etc., etc., and among others. Prison Services. Minister, I don't know who's gonna host this bill, but as you said, that so much money went there, it was spent on the prison service, I'd ask... There's a call from the Prison Service union. They were the only ones treated in this Act differently, they did not receive a limit for the years 2019 to 2028, they did not receive any money under the financial consequences of the entry into force of the Act. I repeat, as your only servant. I will make an amendment while working on this point. If that were possible, I would ask for a favorable look, because there will still be some amendments and this bill will most likely return to the Sejm. It would be good if... It's not about the big money. It's scattered... It's a $40,000-a-year issue. If that were possible, I would ask you very much to take this amendment into account, which I will make later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u98	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Mammoth has made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Dismissed until 12:30. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 22 to 12 minutes 32]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u99	I'm reopening the session. We proceed to the examination of item 30 of the ninth agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 75th anniversary of the outbreak of the Warsaw Uprising. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I would like to welcome those present at the meeting of the participants of those events, Warsaw insurgents, representatives of military organizations, as well as representatives of state authorities. [[Applause]] Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Hello, Mr. Andrzej Dlawichowski. I'm very happy to welcome you. Hello, Mrs. Anna Teresa Galarda. Welcome to the President of the Army Security Corps Association, Mr. Janusz Maximowicz. Hello the President of the Polish Society of Righteous Among the Nations, Anna Stupnicka-Bando. Hello, Mr. Jakub Nowakowski. Hello, Mr. Tadeusz Roman. Hello, Mr. Jerzy Turzewski. Hello, Mr. Tadeusz Filipkowski. Hello, Mr. Leszek Kryst. Hello, Mrs. Lydia Ziental. And welcome to Mr. Tadeusz Jarosz. Once again, very cordially welcome. [[Applause]] I would also like to welcome representatives of state offices: Minister John Józef Kasprzyk, Head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons. [[Applause]] And welcome to the vice president of the Institute of National Remembrance, Mr. Mateusz Szpytma. I would like to welcome you very warmly. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the draft resolution was introduced by Senator Jan Żaryn. It is included in print no. 1236, report no. 1236 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Jan Żaryn, to present a report to the committee on the draft resolution. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Dear Senators! Dear Warsaw Insurgents! We are here today because we want to commemorate the 70th anniversary of the Warsaw Uprising. We are here to adopt a resolution, I think, one of the most important ones, which I was also the initiator during this enduring term of office. Hence my emotion that will accompany this speech. It is taken not only from the fact that I believe that this resolution is one of the most important objectively, but also from the fact that it is one of the most important to me subjectively. My dad was a Warsaw insurgent, died in 1964. How easy to guess, I couldn't really recognize him... He was a Warsaw insurgent in Sielce. On the first day of his uprising, his unit led by Lieutenant Załęski was decimated and the commander was killed. There was another very famous Warsaw insurgent, a friend of my family, the godfather of my older sister, Tadeusz Porayski, a poet who later became famous after the war. And to this day it is famous, it remains in our memory With this beautiful poem about Polish Thermopylae. He was a prisoner of the camps, the Stalinist communist prisoners after 1945. I can tell you, these are two resumes. My dad and Tadeusz Porayski are also a shortcut to the history of the Warsaw Uprising, Warsaw insurgents and their fates after World War II. Their place was in prison. My uncle Władysław Olizar was in the Warsaw Uprising for 63 days. He was a soldier of the National Armed Forces, the National Army. He fought under the command of Chruszel Montera for 63 days. And many, many friends of my family... I can tell you about myself that I grew up at home in the atmosphere of this Warsaw Uprising. Even if school education caused my intellectual destruction during the PRL period, this destruction always stopped in the Warsaw Uprising. In life, neither the Soviets nor the Polish communists were able to break the lie about the Warsaw Uprising so solid that we would be defenceless Poles. This is one of your great successes, that the memory of the Warsaw Uprising could survive in a relatively uncontaminated manner during the period of the Polish People's Republic. Very much so, of course, to your generation, I specifically, Jan Żaryn, thank you. I started with a certain personal upheaval because... I do not hide that I am, just like every person sitting here, touched when they are spoken or when we are talking about the Warsaw Uprising. Before I read the text of the draft resolution, I would like to move the second thread immediately. I think he'll also sound in the discussion. Because I already know that a few people have signed up for the discussion. Well, I would like to put this thesis which I am referring to you, of course, our most important listeners today, but also to you, ladies and gentlemen of the senators. Namely, this thesis is that as long as Poles will be alive, in an energetic way they also responded to the next anniversaries of the Warsaw Uprising, as long as we will discuss lively issues very difficult, connected with, for example, the decision on the outbreak of the Warsaw Uprising, as long as we are interested, we will become clearly better Poles. Let this discussion about the Warsaw Uprising never insult anyone again in life, as in the period of the Polish People's Republic, when many threads of the discussion about the Warsaw Uprising were raised specifically to offend Warsaw insurgents. But let us not let ourselves take as Poles in a free country the right to discuss the Warsaw Uprising, because it is one of the most important events in Poland's history. And if we take that right away, we'll be worse Poles. Let us also transfer to the next generations the right to ask ourselves for good intentions even the most difficult questions concerning the circumstances of the Warsaw Uprising, concerning these victims, those 150 thousand, or maybe 180 thousand, those over 20,000 young people, to a large extent soldiers and officers who died. You have to ask yourself questions about this one of the most tragic events in Polish history. We also need this from the point of view of today's time and future. Are we the only ones to articulate our right to freedom and independence? Is it not so that, thanks to your experience, your decisions should all remember once and for all that it is not only we who have the duty to say to ourselves that we have the right to freedom and independence, but also the world should recognize that there is no European peace, a world without independent sovereign Poland? But in order for the world to understand this, we must discuss the Warsaw Uprising. This is the lesson in which our independence has been rehearsed, and this is the lesson in which Europe and the world can grow up to the conclusion that there is no and there will be no consent for Poland to ever be subordinate, because Poles are Poles. And this is the big case that I think is crazy alive. Today we still have the chance to get this energy to discuss the Warsaw Uprising from you, from the insurgents, because you are still with us and we can still participate in something extraordinary, which my grandchildren, my great-grandchildren will probably not be able to find in their CV. I apologize for the wording, but this extraordinaryness is that thanks to you we can still touch the Warsaw Uprising. This is something extraordinary that the next generation will no longer be able to experience. This touching for your cause is an additional great impulse that we should discuss as a free and independent nation about the Warsaw Uprising, a great and tragic event in Polish history, which should constitute a science for the free world, a lesson that suggests that the right of Poles to independence is an unwavering law in the context of what we call the beautiful word "peace." There is no European or world peace without free and independent Poland. This is the message that comes from the experience of the Warsaw Uprising. Ladies and gentlemen, the resolution, which I will present in a second, is of course a shortcut for this generational experience, which was and is your participation. In this brief, there will be a speech, among others. about one very important event, which I would also like to highlight and develop here. On the one hand, we celebrate the 70th anniversary of the Warsaw Uprising, and on the other The 15th anniversary of the Warsaw Uprising Museum in Warsaw, constantly under the same direction of Jan Oldakowski. In Warsaw, the city, which, as you know, has been managed for 15 years by many people and various ideological, political options. And we can probably tell each other, as senators, that there are moments in our history. The opening year of the Museum of the Warsaw Uprising was the time when a specific person could make a decision and have the courage to make this decision, and this decision turns out to have an amazing meaning, even beyond the horizon of that person. I was at the Warsaw Uprising Museum this morning at 7:00 p.m. because there are crews... Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, but I'm gonna have to pay attention... Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, ...because 20 minutes will pass... I'm done. ...and you won't read the draft resolution. Yeah, okay. Last sentence. I'm so sorry... Last sentence. I'm so sorry, Mr. Senator... Good. ...but we want to make this resolution. Yes, sir. Thank you very much. The last sentence, à speaking about the Warsaw Uprising Museum, and I am already reading the draft resolution. Namely, I talked to the director Jan Oldakowski there, who told me unambiguously that yes, until today school trips from all over Poland come to this museum and year in advance records to the museum are kept. Let's hope it always does. And now the content of the draft resolution. ♪ Resolution of the day ♪ - I'm sure it's today. On the 75th anniversary of the outbreak of the Warsaw Uprising. On 1 August 1944 an uprising broke out at the command of the National Army in Warsaw, the purpose of which was to liberate the capital from the hands of German invaders and to fight independence, especially in the face of a threat from the Soviet Union, whose army was approaching from the east to Warsaw. The outbreak of the uprising freed a large part of the city's central districts from the hands of the occupier. Polish flags were blowing up, the Polish Underground State authorities came out, the underground press was out until recently, and there was also a scouting post, which provided more than 116 thousand letters. The city was enjoying regained independence. However, the purpose of the uprising was not achieved. Only during the first weeks of the uprising did Germany murder more than 50,000 people of Wola and Ochota, and then for two months they conquered the city, reaching the central districts in the quarter after quarter and murdering mercilessly as soldiers as well as civilians, including wounded women and children. As a result of the 63-day fights, at least 150,000 inhabitants of the capital and 20,000 soldiers and officers of the Home Army and other military units were killed, and 15,000 were taken prisoner. The wounded chaplains and medical staff, as well as soldiers of the Polish Army who went from behind the Vistula to help, were killed, contrary to Soviet orders and without the support of the Red Army. On 2 October 1944, when the uprising fell, a large part of the commanders of the AK, including Chief General Tadeusz Komorowski, entered German captivity, and some, led by his successor General Leopold Okulicki, remained in conspiracy after leaving the city. The civilian population of the million-dollar city of Germany expelled, among others. to the transitional camp in Pruszków (Dulag 121), where further transports were carried away displaced persons to other districts of the General Government or to the depths of Germany, for forced labor or concentration camps. The city has been razed to the ground. Its monuments, churches, palaces, public buildings and private houses were planned to be destroyed, a total of 85% of the buildings of the city. When the Red Army entered the ruined capital in January 1945, the Soviets began arrests among the soldiers of the National Army. In March 1945, the leaders of the Polish underground independence were tricked by NKVD General Ivan Sierow, who were deported to Moscow and tried in June 1945 on suspicion of diversion in the rear of the Red Army and collaborating with Germany. Three of the 16 defendants Last commander of AK Gen. Leopold Okulicki, Deputy Prime Minister Jan Stanisław Jankowski, and one of the members of the National Council of Ministers Stanisław Jasiukowicz, was sentenced to years of imprisonment and died in Soviet cazamati, never having lived to see freedom. Kazimierz Pożak, President of the National Unity Council, was arrested by Polish Communists when he returned from Moscow and died in Stalin's prison. Between 1945 and 1956, thousands of Warsaw insurgents, who were unable to emigrate from the country under communist rule, were sent to prisons, among them the famous Zośkowicz people, who during the uprising, among others. They liberated the camp of KL Warschau (Gęsiówka), saving the Jews there. And Jan Rodowicz, Anoda, murdered in the building of the Ministry of Public Security in January 1949. During the period of the Polish People's Republic the right to solemnly celebrate the anniversary of the insurrection was sought. at the Warsaw Military Cemetery in Powązki, where there are insurgent graves with characteristic white crosses. Although after 1956 the authorities formally changed their attitude towards the insurgents, the security camera continued to surveillance them and tried to intimidate them. Only just before the fall of communism, the authorities agreed to build in honor of the fallen insurgents of the Warsaw Uprising Monument. At the Warsaw Uprising Museum It was opened, among others. Thanks to the personal involvement of the then president of the city, sleep. Lech Kaczyński The population of the capital and the whole of Poland had to wait until 2004. Now every year at 5:00 p.m. on August 1, Poles in Poland and abroad stop for a moment to worship the unparalleled courage and sacrifice of the Warsaw insurgents and the heroic city. Poland remembers that the insurgent rally to an unequal fight with Germany aimed not only at the liberation of the capital, but also at guaranteeing independence of the whole country and stopping the perceptible Sovietization of Poland coming along with the offensive of the Red Army and the creation of a subordinated Polish National Liberation Committee under Stalin. It was also an attempt to strengthen Poland's position in the anti-Hitler coalition in the face of the growing role of the USSR, unfortunately our Allies (Americans and English) chose an alliance with one of the invaders in the name of victory over the other. The Senate of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to all Warsaw insurgents Soldiers, Boy Scouts, volunteers, medical personnel, support for fighting clergymen and civilians. Hello and glory to the Heroes! We'll never forget them! We also thank those allies who in the international arena supported military, diplomatically, as well as morally fighting Warsaw and dramatic Polish efforts for the right to freedom and independence. The resolution shall be published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u101	At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the applicant. I remind you that the applicant is also Senator Jan Żaryn. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Wind. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u102	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. President! Dear participants of the Warsaw Uprising! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Thank you very much to Senator Żaryn for this resolution. Thank you, everyone who's been working on it. I would like to share a certain personal witness, which is of particular importance on 1 August. The memory of the ethos of the Warsaw Uprising, of the Grey Ranges shaped my person and my Boy Scouts. The hero of my team was Janek Bytnar, who died a year before the uprising, but we know that his close associates participated in the Warsaw Uprising. I had the privilege of taking a Boy Scout oath on Janek Bytnar's mother's hands, and I took such an oath on his grave many times from my Boy Scouts. On 1 August in Warsaw in Powązki I have been almost every year for almost 50 years. I particularly remember the year 2004, which you mentioned to the senator. During that time we organized a meeting of the Association of Scouts of the Republic. Then, you can say, for the first time in 60 years, such ceremonies were organized, in the square of the insurgents, with a parade. I very much appreciate the photograph that I have on my website, where together with the President of Warsaw, Mr Lech Kaczyński, President Jarosław Kaczyński, we open a parade from Warsaw City Hall to the square of insurgents. I had the privilege of working closely with this generation of scouts, with the chief of the Grey Private Stanisław Broniewski, the Orsza, and Zofia Florczak. I also had the opportunity to meet the daughter of Antoni Chruściel, a scout, a scout, a very well-deserved for the Polish Scouts Association working outside the country. I had the opportunity to meet the insurgent Stanisław Sieradzki, who fought in the Battalion in Wola, in the Old Town, in Czerniaków. He was wounded three times, and his resume shows the extremely difficult fate of our post-war history. He was arrested by the NKVD in November 1944, then in a camp in Majdanek. In 1949, he was again arrested by officials of the Ministry of Public Security. In 1950 by the military court in Warsaw he was sentenced to 10 years in prison, and in 1953 by the court in Rzeszów For the death penalty. He's been waiting for three years to execute his sentence. He was released in November 1956. Decorated with numerous decorations, including the silver cross of Virtuti Militari and twice the Cross of Valiant. Ladies and gentlemen, sometimes we meet with some diwagations, I do not know if to the end scientific thoughts about the role and meaning of the Warsaw Uprising. I would like to draw attention to two very important thoughts. Because the awareness of the Soviet threat was enormous at the time. I remember that already in 1943, very mature analyses of the Soviet threat related to the Eastern Front appeared in the Scout's underground conspiracy press. It was very well realized and prepared. Second thought. I would like to stress that the Grey Series were primarily an educational organization, that the programme today - Tomorrow. The day after tomorrow was characterized by thinking with extraordinary responsibility about young people, not just scouts, but all young people. And it was thinking about tomorrow. The armed actions organized by the Grey League were simply a necessity. I have no doubt that such a necessity was also the Warsaw Uprising - the Warsaw Uprising in defence of the dignity of Poles, but also in defence of our beloved homeland, Poland. Thank you so much for that. We also remember the victims of Wola, the victims of the civilian population, for decades hidden and forgotten. The blood of the martyrs of the Warsaw Uprising became the basis for building a new reality, but it was also an extraordinary strength to survive the terribly difficult time of the Polish People's Republic. We remembered it then, it helped us, it was our commitment to you who survived, and to those who left then, giving up their lives. Praise the martyrs! Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u103	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will make a formal request to limit the speaking time to 5 minutes because otherwise we will adopt a resolution without our guests. Is anyone against it? No. Thank you. Here you go, five minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u104	Dear Warsaw Insurgents! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Mr. President! I'll try to shorten my speech to what should sound very strong here. I will put aside all the political disputes that were then, 75 years ago, and which are also alive today, especially among historians. I would like to say from this stand that what the Germans did during this battle, during the Warsaw Uprising, was genocide, and we cannot forget that. Half of the units who fought against the Warsaw insurgents did not speak German. In addition to the German troops, the Azerbaijani battalions, RON's battalions, were Russian Renegades who fought against our insurgents. There were also Ukrainians and the most degenerate German units, like the Dirlewanger brigade. The memories of the insurgents, the memories of the civilian population, those who survived, are appalling. Today, we cannot imagine how we could have done such cruelty. Heinz Reinefarth, commander of the German troops that were pulled from the Warty Country, the police battalions, has just become famous for his incredible criminal activity. We must also remember that after the war he was mayor of Germany in Schleswig-Holstein and only in 2014 - after so many years since the end of the war - the authorities of this city recognized his criminal activity and apologized to Poles. I think there is still a lot to do not only in Poland. Because what happens in Warsaw, all the authorities of Warsaw... And especially what's been going on for 15 years... the construction of the museum was a breakthrough. This uprising is the keystone of our consciousness and identity. Without his memory, the nation will not understand what history was and what freedom is. That's why we have to talk about him, but we also have to go out with that knowledge. Today in Gniezno, even though I'm not there, we're organizing an hour again in Gniezno. It is a march from the monument commemorating the commander of the Parasola of Adam Boris, who was born under Gniezno, until the pedestrian, where the siren is howling - among the gardens where people eat dinner, where there are restaurants. And it's amazing when we bring back an uprising that took place so many years ago, and it's still alive here. I remember speaking two years ago, when there were also tourists from Germany, glad that they were coming to visit Poland, there was a historical reconstruction showing this cruelty that was then And I said, "Well, it's good that you're coming, 'cause it's about knowing what your dads were doing here." And that's why we need our message, our strong historical message. Ladies and gentlemen, I think what is happening in Warsaw today and every year... This memory that's built must survive and last. It's not gonna break free any disaster. Praise the heroes! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u106	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Insurgents! 5 minutes is very little, especially since the resolution is quite long But maybe that's a solution. This uprising was undoubtedly great, heroic and has no precedent in the world and in Europe. But perhaps even deeper was post-insurgent trauma, because it lasted longer and until today it continues. Questions about failure, questions about losses are still valid. I'll talk about your success. This success lies What was said here in the message addressed to other generations, that you, us, and previously legionaries, who also participated in the uprising, participate in the great relay of generations, the construction of the chain of independence and freedom. On the question of how it happened and why it happened, there can be only one answer: Poles sucked the desire for independence and freedom with mother's milk. The message of the uprising, resulting from its structural composition, from the fact that all staff soldiers, residents and volunteers participated in it, was certainly the desire for independence to mean at least a community. I regret the state of which such wonderful figures are present here: Professor Wind, co-founder of independent scouting, author of this resolution and many others, apologist of independence, etc. Well, maybe I won't expand anymore. A leading fighter for independence and sovereignty, even without a united Europe... When I offered to have just today, instead of this another paper In my opinion, long and even at certain conflicting moments To pay a specific homage and on graves, gray, destroyed by time and wind, or maybe even by commerce, put this stamp... [[Senator Jan Rulewski presents a cotillion strapped to the Navy with the Sign of Fighting Poland]] ...this symbol of Poland for hundreds of years fighting for independence, it was the country that crossed it off. Only one person supported it, and eight stopped. I ask: what genes are in you, that today, in the face of the end of the term of office, this Senate, who could never get one act together, could not be united in this matter, in the matter of these people, to pay tribute to them with them, and not after time? I'm sorry. Worse: it hurts. Let me experience this in person. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u107	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! And above all, you, Dear Warsaw Insurgents! I had the honour of attending the opening ceremony of the Warsaw Uprising Museum on 31 July 2004 as the then president of the Warsaw Capital City Council when I was asleep. Professor Lech Kaczyński opened this museum and when it could be said that it was created in an unprecedented way, in less than 2 years and thanks to the enormous effort of people who worked 24 hours later. It was the implementation of a commitment that had a moral dimension. Finally, a museum was built that commemorates the uprising. The history of the museum itself, long periods of discussion, disputes, changes of concept caused nothing to be done. At that time, however, it was possible to create a museum, which radically changed consciousness in Poland. But not only in Poland For the Warsaw Uprising. That's one thing. Secondly, we know the Warsaw Uprising mainly thanks to the unique photographic and film documentation on a global scale. Colonel Jan Rzepecki, head of BIP, was well aware of the importance and influence of visual media. Already in 1942, under the BIP, he established a sub-department of "Rój" which was to carry out photographic and film documentation. Insurgent photographers used optimal equipment in those conditions. Leica's small-picture camera was used, which was a novelty to which rich accessories, including telephoto lenses, could be used. The negative materials were Ilford companies, very sensitive, British, coming from dumps. The New Year's Eve of Braun, Kris, stated briefly about his work: "I did not receive any orders. My operating area was the whole of Warsaw. The photographic paper had its own laboratory and from each good negative were made 3 prints, which were then distributed to 3 places. Daily wall newspapers were developed, pictures were printed in the underground press, a printed photopaper was stamped on the walls a week in illustration. Warsaw fought heroically. Warsaw has film and photographic documentation worthy of its armed act. Of the numerous photographers, unfortunately, we know only some names. Many of them fought not only with a camera but also with weapons. Let me mention them: Władysław Bala, Halina Balówna, Stefan Bałuk, Stanisław Barański, Jerzy Beeger, Sylvester Braun, Tadeusz Bukowski, Jerzy Chojnacki, Wiesław Chrzanowski, Lech Gąszewski, Eugeniusz Hanemann, Eugeniusz Lokajski, Stanisław Kopf, Michał Lubicz-Stabrowski, Elżbieta Łaniewska, Stefan Rasssalski, Leszek Rueger, Andrzej Ryttel, Irena Skotnicka, Stanisław Sommer, Wincenty Szober, Henryk Śmigacz, Jerzy Świderski, Jerzy Miedza-Tomaszewski, Jerzy Zarzycki, Wacław and Sabina Żjarski. Let us remember on this occasion that thanks to their heroic attitude we have documentation, we have an image of these tragic and unusual days. Finally, I would like to say that the Warsaw Uprising is primarily Warsaw, but it is also Mazowsze and the whole country. In my constituency, in Ciechanów, there is That's what a lot of people don't know. The monument of 300 inhabitants of Ciechanów who died in the Warsaw Uprising. This shows that it had a national dimension. Praise the heroes! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u109	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Czesław Ryszka and Robert Mamytkow made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on the 75th anniversary of the outbreak of the Warsaw Uprising. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the senators is in favour of the project? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 76 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 16]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the 75th anniversary of the outbreak of the Warsaw Uprising. Allow me to approach you and pass the resolution on to you. [[Everybody up.]] [[The Marshal hands over a resolution]] [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby announce a recess until 13.20. Just three minutes? So you can leave. [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 17 to 13 minutes 21]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u111	I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law of. Code of Criminal Procedure and some other laws. The text of the Act in print No 1243, and the Commission's reports In the letters Nos 1243 A and 1243 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Zbigniew Cichoń, to submit a report to the committee. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Isn't Senator Quiet in the O.R.? There isn't. Oh, my God, he's not here. I have to take a five-minute break, then. [[Talking in the O.R.]] No, because there's still a minority report, so... I'm calling a five-minute break. Time-out until 1:25 p.m. [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 22 to 13 minutes 25]] I'm reopening the session. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Zbigniew Cichoń, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u112	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The purpose of the review is to amend the Code of Criminal Procedure and certain laws. This is a rather radical change in the procedure aimed at speeding up proceedings, among others. by introducing... This is unnecessary from a rational point of view of declaring and justifying judgments to the so-called. an empty room. Because it didn't take much time. In addition, the Act implements what came from us, from the Senate, namely a rule that introduces a rule similar to that of other procedures: if the last day of the deadline for legal action falls on a Saturday, it is moved to the next, popularly speaking, working day, i.e. from Saturday to Monday. And many other solutions have been introduced here. At the committee's meeting, we focused actually mainly on those issues which are related, as could be said, to the right of defence. It is proposed to introduce a regulation which would allow evidence to be carried out in the event of non-observation, even justified, accused or defender. This is motivated by the desire to speed things up. At the same time, this provision specifically refers to the proposed Article. 378a of the Code of Criminal Procedure, introduces a rule that if such evidence were to result in a breach of the right of defence, it could be demanded I'm just saying that in a simple way, of course. Resuming this evidence at the next hearing. And there was a discussion about that. I'll tell you what her results were. The second point is also related to the right of defence, and in principle to the respect of such a traditional principle, that the second instance court... that the duality of proceedings should be maintained, and therefore the second instance court cannot convict the defendant if the acquittal is first instance, as well as The second instance court should not change the penalty to the harshest one, such as the life sentence, in cases where a judgment given at first instance was not so severe. Well, this principle is motivated, as I said, by the fact that there should be a two-instant ruling on the issue of punishment. Two proposals for change were therefore made here. First proposal... Maybe I'll talk about the majority's conclusions, because Senator Pociej will talk about the minority's conclusions. The first proposal concerns the issue I shouldn't actually be talking about it yet, but I'm gonna bring it up right now. The effect of the prosecutor's objection, in the event that the court, when ruling on a preventive measure, finds that it is possible to replace the temporary arrest by bail. And there's a rule here that the effect of releasing a man from temporary detention after bail doesn't occur in the event of a prosecutor's objection. That is, it will only take place if the judgment becomes final. Because, I would remind you, according to this proposal, the prosecutor may not only object, but also, as has been the case so far, also complain about the change in this measure, which is the exchange of temporary detention for bail. And it is proposed in this bill that this time should be extended to the moment when the judgment becomes final. As part of the amendments I will make, among others. This is the issue that has been addressed by specifying the moment at which the prosecutor may object. This is Amendment One. Then there is an amendment to the article. 350a, which concerns the possibility of reading witness statements as well as other evidence carried out. And this is an editorial amendment, although perhaps very deliberate, because it states that only the testimony of those witnesses who have already been questioned in that capacity can be read. And maybe the most important of the amendments, or actually the two most important ones, the last ones. One is precisely the question of the possibility of carrying out evidence in the event of a justified failure of the defender or accused person. This is an amendment which makes it possible to clarify the conditions for the request to repeat this evidence, whether by the accused or by the defender, because here it is proposed to formulate this right in a way that gives the accused and the defender a certain subjective right, and not to depend on its kind of recognition, as is the case in the previous paragraphs next to the article. 378a. There was a phrase that actually left the court free of charge as to whether or not to allow the proof to be reopened. At the moment, we propose that it be formulated in such a way that, in fact, this request is binding on the court, by means of a formula which reads as follows: the court shall take account of the request if the absence of the defendant or the defender at the time of the trial where the evidence proceedings were conducted pursuant to paragraph 1 was justified, and the complementary carrying out of the evidence does not require the appearance of persons residing abroad. And the next amendment we've proposed. It is with regard to this principle, which I have been talking about for decades, that a court may not sentence a person to life imprisonment in a situation where it would do so precisely as an appeal court, i.e. a court of second instance, because it would be virtually deprived of the sentence of this accused by the principle of two-instant proceedings, which is, after all, a constitutional principle, enshrined in Article. 174 or Article. 178 constitutions. And we have dealt with this issue similarly in relation to the proposed, and just as I say, a solution not accepted by the committee, according to which also in the event of a conditional remission of criminal proceedings, the second instance court could, however, impose a penalty. So that proposals have been made in this regard. A little bit further are minority proposals, largely in line with these proposals, but I think Senator Pociej will present this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u113	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Legislative Commission, Senator Alexander Potoj, to present the proposals of the minority of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u114	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to make proposals for minorities. In general, it should be recognised, and I am very pleased that for the first time in this term, we have finally dealt with speeding up procedures. I would like to thank the Ministry that after years of dealing with human resources and systems, i.e. changes that did not bring anything to citizens, there is this project, because in fact Poles are waiting for procedures to be such that in Poland they will be able to pursue justice quickly and effectively. Having said this, I must also say, unfortunately, that at least three solutions are of great concern to both lawyers, lecturers and the Supreme Court, as well as to local governments. I'll start with Art. 454. As Senator Cichoń has just said, this amendment, which has been approved by the majority of the committee, concerns the following two situations. One is quite common, the other happens very rarely. The wording of the provisions to date is as follows: The Court of Appeal may not convict the defendant who was acquitted at first instance or for whom the proceedings were dismissed or conditionally dismissed at first instance. I provision §3: The Court of Appeal may not tighten the sentence by imposing a life sentence for imprisonment. This is what Senator Cichoń was just talking about, which means that the legislator had previously come out of such an assumption that, in the case of such ailment, the accused cannot be deprived of the principle of duality, especially since when the court of appeal only tightens the penalty, there is no cancellation. I'm gonna bring in some very loud recent events after years of jail time. And the penalties were very high, and it turned out that the man did not commit the crime. I believe that, in the face of such threats, this legislative idea so far, which prohibits the court from ruling a sentence of life imprisonment, is most appropriate. Moreover, such things happen very little. Therefore, I do not think that this could significantly speed up judgment and ease justice. As far as §1 is concerned, the one from which the conditional termination of the proceedings is thrown out, and this is probably a more frequent event, I consider That's why I proposed, supported... and voted against this solution. That we absolutely should not deprive this quality of duality and aggravate the situation of people who have been subject to a conditional termination of proceedings. When does this conditional remission take place? Well, most often when the defendant goes into cooperation. He takes advantage of some possibility, facilitates justice to some extent, opens up to this justice system, and this is also help to the justice system, because then the procedure is shorter. If we eliminate this possibility, we will soon see that this will lead to something else, because the defendants will not go into cooperation without knowing what will happen in the second instance. Now the other two proposals, amendments that have not been accepted by the committee. One shall apply in Article. Point 1 of point 33, which is point in point (a). b in §3 states: "If the prosecutor declares, at the latest at the hearing, that he opposes the amendment of the preventive measure, that provision, as regards the modification of the temporary arrest for a guarantee, shall become enforceable on the date of validity.' Ladies and gentlemen, the argument put forward by the Ministry in this regard is as follows: such accidents occur One of the last loud processes was mentioned here. At the time of proposing such a change, the accused's relatives stand by the door, lodge a surety of property or give other guarantees to which the court turns the arrest, and the prosecutor has no way of appealing against it, so the defendant is released. I understand the problem of the prosecutor's office, but if it were to be noted here that, in such a situation, a time limit should be laid down within which the court of appeal will have to give its ruling if it were to be drawn up very briefly... If that were the case, I could think about it. However, this change does not go hand in hand here, and it is a convenience for the prosecution, and a situation in which the court finds that a man can go free... After this decision, it may turn out that for the next 1.5 months, a month or even two months, a man will be in custody for the decision of the court of appeal. I think from the point of view of... According to the Supreme Court and the Ombudsman, it is stated that this is absolutely unacceptable and that this is an ailment to which we cannot agree in a civilised world. Now I'm going to the most controversial recipe. It's an art. 378a. High Izbo, in art. 117 § 3a It is proposed that the failure of a party who has been duly informed of the procedural action, regardless of its cause, shall not prevent this action from being carried out if its defender or representative has been present. This is not the case where the party's participation is mandatory. This solution has already been strongly criticised in the Supreme Court's opinion and is even alleged to be in conflict with EU standards and that, against the background of the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, this solution may be contested, even though a buffer has been maintained by the Ministry in this solution. At least there must be a defender or a proxy. While commenting on this proposal, the defense attorney or attorney may not have the knowledge of the party to the proceedings, such a solution gives at least a partial guarantee that there is at least a defender. I repeat: this solution is also contested. Meanwhile, in the article. 378a the designer goes much further. It is concluded that if the accused or the defender did not appear for the hearing, when notified of its date, the court, in particularly justified cases, may carry out evidence proceedings in his absence, even if it had duly justified non-compliance and in particular heard witnesses who had taken part in the hearing, even if the defendant had not yet provided an explanation. While some mechanism is proposed in the following paragraphs, a possible repetition of these activities, but there is no doubt that this is not in line with the European Parliament's directive, with recitals 33 and 37 and with the entire preamble to that directive. I would like to refer to the article in this regard. 1 of this submission: this law is implementing the provisions of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the right of access to a lawyer in proceedings. Well, if this act is cited, it should be coordinated in the submission. Proposals should take into account the file referred to here. Unfortunately, Minister, this is in all the opinions I had access to. It's exactly the opposite. Look... Of course, I understand that one of the biggest problems is procedural obstruction. No practice will say otherwise. But if there's one solution I stress, it was also criticised that you say that there must be at least a defender or a proxy, then why do you not want to introduce the same solution here? It doesn't happen very often... I understand that the people involved in these matters can do things and try to avoid justice. But if it's said that absence is justified, then at least That's the minimum. The defender should be included here. Therefore, I would very much ask the Minister to take these two amendments into account so that we, me and the members of my club, can vote in favour of these solutions with a clear heart, so that I can leave this room and say that, as I have repeatedly criticised the actions of the Ministry and what was going on around the justice system... I'll be able to go out and say there's a bill... Because she's actually going in a very good direction. Only, as I said at the committee meeting, suddenly to something that you could be proud of and that would really improve the situation of the citizen, you put in one or two provisions that once again start a completely unnecessary discussion. You know that this will be the subject of the debate again, and it will most likely end with some further international action in relation to these solutions. I ask you, at least in part, to take into account these demands, because this will give you something that will not be controversial, which will really help people and for which she will be able to vote and the opposition and the party in power. We're finally gonna give people something to make them better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u115	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Zbigniew Cichoń, to submit a report to the committee. It's the same thing. Mr Senator, if these reports overlap, please simply limit yourself to a brief statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee's position was actually, you can say, the same as the position I put forward earlier, so that I may not take the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u117	Thank you very much, Senator. And now I ask the senator of the minority rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Alexander Potoj, to present the proposals of the minority of the committee. And here's a similar request, Mr. Senator. Of course, if that's possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u118	Mr. Marshal, I will not repeat myself. I could only repeat what I said earlier, so that I would also consider the previous report to be a report from the Human Rights Committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u119	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. The bill was filed by the government and the Senate. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Minister Marcin Warchoł is present at the meeting. Minister? No, thank you. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. No one signed up... I... You're welcome, Senator Alexander Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u120	Since my report was quite extensive, I will only briefly repeat this appeal again. I would very much like to ask the Minister to support these two amendments tabled. I think that then we will all be able to enjoy, without this spoon of the earth, with a solution that really is good, which can improve the criminal procedure and give people satisfaction from the fact that the processes will be faster. Maybe it'll be like it used to be before the war. Because even... This, of course, will sound very weak, but in fact even the communes followed these proceedings faster. I know that these things are getting more and more, that they are getting more and more, and I absolutely support your initiative. I'm just asking, let's all give each other a chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u121	Thank you very much. Senator Zbigniew Silence.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u122	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Well, as a defense attorney, I couldn't take the floor on this, because we're touching matter. At those points on which the proposals for amendments concern A very important, crucial right of defence, a right which is enshrined not only in the Constitution, not only in the Code, but also in the Article. 6 the European Convention on Human Rights, specifically in paragraph 6. 3 lit. a. And it could be said that the case law of the European Court of Human Rights is the richest case law, not in any other matter, as in the matter of the right of defence. I would like to remind you, for example, of such milestones in the case law of the Court, which indicate that the person detained has the right from the very first moment to stay in contact with the lawyer, and that any action which is carried out with the party, i.e. any explanation and other evidence, is a violation of this fundamental right and reflects the assessment of the procedure from the point of view of the standards of the Article. 6 of this convention, the right to a fair trial. It's like the Salduz case against Turkey. In turn, when it comes to matters relating to the defendant's participation in the trial, unfortunately we also have Polish experiences concerning, for example, the defendant's participation in legal proceedings before the second instance, which, moreover, led to the fact that we finally changed the procedure and at the moment, at his request, the defendant has the right to take part in proceedings before the second instance. It's worth mentioning, too. Since we're analysing this article, we're looking into it. 378, which is precisely concerned with the conduct of activities under the justified absence of a lawyer or lawyer, and, by the way, other regulations which concern the presence of those participants in the proceedings, on the general rule of the Article. 86 §2 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which provides that the defence officer's participation in the proceedings does not exclude the defendant's personal action. So let's remember that it's not all that simple. It is not always enough to replace the defendant's presence with even the presence of a defender. But in the name of these principles, which I am generally referring to here, because it would be possible to speak and quote for hours the rich case law and the Strasbourg Court and the Supreme Court, and I support, I strongly support this amendment which I have spoken of, which is merely the introduction of the principle that, at the request of the accused or the defender, a repetition of the act which has been carried out in their absence is being carried out. It's a rule that won't depend on the court's judgment, and it won't require... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I don't want to interfere with the minister's discussion with the senator... Mr. Senator, Minister, please concentrate. The senator is in the middle of an appearance. So that, as I put it in my previous statement, it will be a kind of subjective right of the accused and the defender to repeat the action. Of course, all of this is left to the assessment of these actors of the court proceedings as the accused and the defender. Well, it's known that if there's evidence, e.g. from the expert's opinion, which will prove beneficial to the accused, in spite of the absence of the defendant and his defender, they will not apply for the repetition of this act, because it does not undermine or harm the defendant's rights. Hence, I am very much in favour of this amendment here and ask for it to be accepted. Therefore, of course, it would be unnecessary for all subsequent paragraphs to be added to that article, which require there to indicate that in the course of carrying out this action in the absence of it there was... no, that the manner in which it was carried out resulted in a violation of the rights of the accused. Well, you can't, in my opinion, lay down such conditions and make it subject to review of the admissibility of this action to the assessment of whether the rights of defence have been infringed or not. The principle in a democratic state of law is that the question of whether or not to defend itself and how to defend itself belongs to the accused and to his defender, in particular the defender. I would remind you that the defense attorney's job is to act only in favor of the defendant. He can't take any action that would hurt him. He is obliged to undertake activities that even sometimes the accused disagrees with if the defender thinks that these actions are for the benefit of the accused. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u123	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. And I would like to inform you that you have tabled proposals of a legislative nature in writing by Senator Marek Martynowski. The discussion is closed. Is the government representative willing to respond to the proposals put forward and take the floor? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u124	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was not originally going to answer the questions asked, but for the sake of respect for the noble senators, and Senator Pociej, and Senator Cichoń, I think it would be appropriate to refer to the charges raised here. However, I think I can persuade the senators to change their decision and support our project in its entirety. Let me take care of Art first. 454, which is a ban on ne peius. Namely, as the senator has already pointed out here, it concerns the following situations today: it is not possible to convict an acquitted person, it is impossible to convict the person to whom the proceedings were dismissed, conditionally dismissed, and the penalty cannot be tightened up by serving life imprisonment. We propose a 2nd amendment to the sentence by imposing a life sentence and the possibility of conviction in the event of a conditional termination of the proceedings. As for the issue of conditional redemption... The court which finds conditional remission shall issue a judgment conditionally depreciating, first the case shall be found guilty, and the case shall be declared. He does it in small matters. I would stress: 3 and 5 years is the scope for actions which include conditional remission. So the unsub's guilty, he's a culprit, and he's a culprit. Moreover, it is a violation of the principle of presumption of innocence. From now on, the perpetrators can no longer be considered innocent in accordance with the judgment of the Constitutional Court. Although this is not a conviction, the perpetrator is guilty. So, in the case in which this judgment is delivered, we do not think that there is any reason why the appeal court should be able to convict such a person. Other legal systems provide for such solutions. I would like to remind you: in German law, if the court is conditionally withdrawing the proceedings after the indictment of the indictment, such a provision is uncomplainable; then §153a third sentence Strafprozessordnung. As far as European regulations are concerned, Article. 2 (2) 2 Additional Protocol No 7 to the European Convention on Human Rights clearly states that in the cases set out in the Act, it is permissible for the accused to be found guilty of a minor offence by the second instance court as a result of the appeal against the judgment of the acquittal court of first instance. So you can even convict a person who was acquitted at first instance. This is how far the European legislator has gone in this kind of solution that he provides. Let me remind you: it's an art. 2 (2) 2 Additional Protocol No 7 to the European Convention on Human Rights. We're not going that far. We are only proposing to introduce this amendment so that the possibility of conviction is provided for in the case of conditional remission. Why would you do that? High Izbo, from observing the practice. Experience has shown that, in such situations, there is often even a long delay in the procedure, that I will point out the following examples. In one of the cases in the District Court in Płock, the inability of the court of appeal to be convicted with conditional dismissal resulted in an extension of the proceedings by 9 months and this period was multiplied. Then in the Appeals Court in Łódź, here, in turn, there is talk of life imprisonment, the proceedings were extended by 10 months. In another case For more than a year and six months, it was in the District Court in Rawa Mazowiecka, where the sentence was suspended conditionally, because of the inability to convict. We have a lot of examples of this kind. These proposals came from the judge's community. It is the judges themselves who want to be able to tighten the sentence to life imprisonment, and it is the judges themselves who want to be able to be convicted in the event of conditional dismissal. Why are we proposing a solution to tighten the sentence to life imprisonment? These are cases, these are situations where the perpetrator has already been convicted, and has already been found guilty. If there's more punishment... Mr. Senator, please bear in mind that only punishment is under discussion. The court of first instance says this: in this case he is entitled to a sentence other than life imprisonment, e.g. 25-year penalty. But the court of appeal says no, I think he should be sentenced to life imprisonment. He can't do that, he's rescinding the case, and he's rescinding it. The Court of First Instance reiterates its position as before. The appeal court says he's entitled to life imprisonment. Ladies and gentlemen, what is happening? Do ping pong, we have ping pong between court first and second instance. Why is a second-instance court at this point a worse court, which cannot itself sentence the perpetrator to life imprisonment, only has to quash and refer the case to a retrial? This pathology, caused by constant repeal and reconnaissance, has already been identified by us. We've got it covered. The changes that entered into force on 16 April 2016, I will remind you, were very big changes towards a balanced schedule of working time. What we promised before the election, we're doing. And we're already seeing the first good results. The justice system is no longer functioning as a pyramidal structure, where the district courts are the most charged with work, which was the result of statistics, now they are improving. The Courts of Appeals have a little less and under any circumstances the judgment is annulled and re-examined. We've narrowed it down a lot. Namely in the article. 437 we have introduced a rule that can only be repealed in 3 cases: if there is ne peius, if there are absolute reasons for appeal or the need to conduct the cable in its entirety. And the review courts are on the job, we can already see it. In fact, a dozen cases instead of abducting, handing them over to reconvene and extending their lead by two or three years... the courts of appeal are already working. The Court of Appeal is not, ladies and gentlemen, a court worse than the court of first instance, on the contrary, there are more experienced judges there, with more achievements, often scientific and judicial. So if they say, "We want to sentence the perpetrator of this imprisonment for life, he deserves it, they have every right to do it." And today, unfortunately, there is often such a situation that they want to do so, but so what if the first instance says no, 25 years or 15 years, and therefore once again there is an appeal, etc., etc., and another 2, 3 years. I'll go over, if you don't mind, Mr. Marshal, to the second point, to the article. 378a. Mr. Senator Silence has been gracious to ask us for a solution regarding the possibility of holding a hearing in an excused absence. Let me be clear: it's not about conducting a trial, it's about conducting one piece of evidence concerning the witness hearing. Art. 378a is also a lex specialis provision in relation to Article. 117. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 117 refers to all the evidence and all the evidence, and Article 117 refers to it. 378a is spoken It's about questioning a witness. Why would you suggest that? Ladies and gentlemen, in the District Court in Nowy Sącz, with 35 court dates, 21 were cancelled, in the District Court in Chełm from 41 scheduled hearings were not held 35, in the District Court in Mielec with 99 hearings were not held. These types of examples can be multiplied. In the appeal of Krakow there are 8 examples; in the appeal of Krakow there are 6 examples. There's a lot of that kind of stuff. There's a wave of sick leave sent an hour before the trial. Here was another change requested by the judicial community. The judges came to us and said, "You have to do something about it because we're not doing it." There weren't half of them at the 48th arraignment. In the cases we've been analyzing, in specific situations... Let me now refer to a specific case, when the judge wrote to us that if these rules were in force, instead of the present more than 7 years of proceedings... Ladies and gentlemen, the procedure has been going on for 7 years and 4 months. So if these rules were in force, there would be a reduction in the number of time limits by 25, there would be a significant reduction in the time allowed for this procedure to be halfway through. So if these rules were to be introduced earlier, the procedure would not take seven years, but half of it. In another case, we have dealt with proceedings lasting 6 years and 23 days. And again: here there is an obstruction of procedure. The court points out that if these rules were in force, we would reduce the procedure by 47%, from more than 6 years to 3 years. Notice the great value these principles have. First thing. I would like to stress that the defendant is not left alone. The defendant will be able to apply for additional evidence, and contrary to what Senator Quichoń has pointed out, there is no jurisdiction here as regards the court. Mr. Senator, please pay attention to the fact that currently Article. 185a §1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure indicates exactly the same conditions as regards the infringement or demonstration of that infringement of the right of defence. Please see that we here do not indicate the grounds of the article. 170 k.p.k., we do not say: in court, you have the full discretion to dismiss the application for supporting evidence. Absolutely not. The court shall be bound by the application of that accused person for supplementary proof if he proves that there has been a breach of the right of defence. Where did we get this? I say, from the current article. 185a §1, which indicates that if in the event of an interrogation of a minor victim in pre-trial proceedings, the accused had no counsel, and then the defender will apply for the re-trial of this suspect at the trial... of this child, because we are talking about the child here. And so there's the child's welfare, and there's another value in it. This child must be interrogated. There is no other option, as the Supreme Court made clear in its 2011 decision. So the defendant's motion is binding on the judge. In our case, he will also bind the judge as soon as he points out this minimum circumstance of violation of the right of defence. And in the article. 185a is a violation of the right of defence, and in the case of our article. 378a is a violation of the right of defence. I'm saying that there would be this kind of freedom that you mentioned to the senator if we'd subject it to the rules of evidence from the article. 170. There is indeed a possibility for the court to dismiss such a request of evidence, here we agree, because if the application is unfounded, if the application is intended to violate the procedure, it can be dismissed. We didn't do anything like that, which is why it's a mandatory request. Why can we not agree with this proposal? In fact, this proposal would deprive the instrument of teeth, i.e. Article 2 378a would be unnecessary if, as is claimed here, the defence was involved. It's very easy to imagine that the defendant doesn't have a defense attorney. What's the big deal? He'd be in a worse position than the one with the defense attorney, which means he'd be... We would put the accused without a defense attorney in a handicapped position, the one with a defense attorney, instantly in a better position. The principle of equality. That's the first argument. Second argument. This provision, in view of the fact that Article. 117 §3a, which I mentioned, concerns many situations, would be a repetition of the article. 117, he would have lost his senses at all and wouldn't have prevented this obstruction of justice if the defendant had made a deal with his attorney: I'm moving the certificate and you're presenting the certificate. In addition, it would also introduce, ladies and gentlemen, an inequality between the situation of the defender and the situation of the accused. Why? Because at this point, we'd think that if there's a defense attorney, it's an act... if there's no defendant and his defender, then the action can't be done. Please note that another credibility is given to the defendant's medical certificate and his defender. We say this: since he submits this certificate to the defender, he is certainly right, and it is certainly right to postpone this kind of trial, and if he submits such a certificate to the accused, then he deserves less credibility. So the principle of equality, pay attention, is manifest to us in many aspects. Finally, I ask the High House to adopt this law without amendments. This is a really great project. As the judges say, he's gonna cut the case by half, about 50%. , there will be repeated interrogation of the same witnesses I'm talking about art. 315a, Art. 350a will not have to wait for a return receipt, which often takes weeks or even months, there will be no need, as in Amber Gold, for example, to read to an empty room several times a week of judgment. We all know that this is completely unnecessary and it is enough to limit itself to giving the most important recitals of the judgment. Finally, it will not be necessary for the rapporteur to read at the appeal hearing all the pleas in appeal, the appeal requests, the scope of the appeal, the charges raised. It's all happening today. We are done with the situation where the court is a reader. The court is not a read-out, the file is public, it can be read during exploratory deception. We end up in a situation where the court reads and the defendant sleeps. We are ending with a situation in which 90 trials of 50 are not held, because an hour before the hearing the medical certificate is issued. So these are very good solutions. Next: Email notification, facilitation for disabled people, no need to interrogate several hundred, several thousand witnesses. This code we have, ladies and gentlemen, is indeed anachronistic, even though it was created in 1997. Well, at least twenty-year-olds, but unfortunately we can see that he is not only dealing with large economic issues, such as the Amber Gold scandal, for example, but also in small consumer cases, in allegorical fraud cases, when several dozens of hundreds of evidence has to be carried out, it is unfortunately at this point that the code goes around and does not deal with it. I therefore ask the High House to adopt this law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u125	Thank you very much, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Marek Martynowski tabled amendments to the protocol. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I would like to inform you that item 14 of the Act amending the Commercial Companies Code will be discussed on Friday, the third day of the meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Code of Commercial Companies and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1257, and the committee's report in print No 1257 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Zbigniew Cichoń, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u126	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This law is a further step in the revision of the Commercial Companies Code. We remember that at a recent meeting we introduced the so-called. a simple joint stock company. It was introduced there, among others. solutions for so-called dematerialisation of the shares, i.e. the introduction into place of a physical paper document of the relevant register. We also introduced the principle that this register is kept by certain institutions with which the company makes contracts. We can say that we are currently making a certain reception of these solutions to other companies and we are introducing this principle of dematerialisation of shares, as well as many changes related precisely to the introduction of this register by specialised entities with which companies are to conclude contracts. It shall be specified what this register should contain. The Act also provides for changes to the civil procedure, mainly in the civil procedure concerning execution, and in the Code of Enforcement in the Administration. There are amendments tabled, mainly of a technical nature, which have been proposed by the Legislative Office. I don't have much to comment on here, because, as I say, it's a change that doesn't make a revolution, except that we're going with the spirit of time. In the sense that it is taken into account that we are living in the digital age, and this is mainly due to changes in the keeping of the register.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u127	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question for you. As I understand it, this stock register will be kept electronically. Yeah, yeah. Is there anything else besides this form that the owner will be able to prove if anything happened to that electronic carrier... Is there gonna be any other form of security that testifies to the number of...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u129	As I recall, it is intended to be published in writing, of course, if someone wishes it, to certify that someone has a specific right, e.g. shares.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u130	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Senator of the rapporteur? No. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Welcome to Minister Piebiak's meeting. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u131	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Respecting the time of the High House, I will ask very briefly for the support of the High House. In relation to my colleague, my predecessor, we have the honour of presenting another great bill made at the Ministry of Justice. I think it's a non-controversial practice that meets the expectations of dematerialisation of shares in public limited liability companies and limited liability companies. I'm not going to introduce her in detail. Of course, I will explain everything if the High House is interested. In any case, this law increases security, this law reduces the costs of operating public limited liability companies, this law protects the interests of minority shareholders, this law, you can say... Although it is not yet adopted, it can be assumed that it will work in practice, because dematerialized turnover has been in a narrower range for almost 20 years and there has been no failure. I am referring here to the question which just came from Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. There was no situation in which dematerialised trading would have to prove its rights to shares where that turnover was already in force. So that after 20 years of experience and continuous development of this system, it can be assumed that nothing will happen. However, if that were the case, there is always a judicial procedure in place to determine... and it is possible to prove its share rights. So that I ask the High House for support, I serve as an explanation and I stress that all the senators in the committee supported this bill. So I think it's pretty successful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u132	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Comfort? I want to join the discussion. Okay, then it's Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u133	Thank you very much. Minister, I thank you for this statement, which somehow calms me, but also as an educated historian and a man who is often based on archives and paper archives, I am aware of what problems we will have with these electronic media, which will have to be moved, updated and so on. Anyone who had a home archive and once had a video, then lost the recordings to the tiles, and now to other formulas... It's a permanent, continuous procedure. A document, if it survived physically, could have worked for several hundred years. And that's why my question goes to this... Because I understand that when you notarize shares, it's obviously a notarial contract in the register, so there's a document, and in other situations, if, God forbid, whatever happened to this system And we hear all the time that in terms of cybersecurity different situations happen... Isn't he gonna show up? I am not saying that this will be the case with this law, which I support as much as possible. This problem: how can the holder of securities in the form of shares later clearly prove the holding of such securities if the system were to fail? Yeah, except for the court system... Because, as I understand it, there are witnesses in the course of the proceedings, etc. This could be said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u134	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u135	To answer the senator's question... In such a situation But I'm assuming that it shouldn't happen, but there's even that promil or promila risk that the IT system will fail, that it will be irreversible, although it's known that all systems operate on the basis of at least duplication, if not multiple data storage in different physical locations, the whole world functions like this, here too. It will always be a written form of an agreement to sell shares, and it is a source document that can be used to demonstrate the authority of the person concerned in the event that the IT record is unrecoverable. And the fact that, of course, it is difficult to disagree with the senator that progress is forcing further changes in carriers and that we will probably no longer return to the fact that for several hundred or several thousand years we will be satisfied with the same kind of medium as it was and still is in the case of a traditional paper medium. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u136	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u137	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I may have a naive question, but there are two laws that were kind of close together. Please tell me: are the provisions of this law also applicable to simple public limited liability companies? Where does it say that?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u138	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! Thank you very much for this question, because it itself follows. Most of the amendments mentioned by the Senator rapporteur concerned precisely the coherence of these two laws, since both laws have frequently interfered with the same institutions described in the Commercial Companies Code. That had to be made more consistent, hence these amendments. But a simple public company has its own mechanism of dematerialisation of shares, so this mechanism we are talking about is not directly applicable here, because it concerns public limited liability companies and limited liability companies. A simple public limited company is a different type of company, new in the Polish legal system, but these laws certainly affect each other, and since the High Chamber had previously adopted a law concerning a simple public limited company, we had to present amendments at the committee meeting And the committee agreed to introduce them, which would adapt the provisions of this law to what the Senate had already passed, and concerned the law on a simple public limited company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u139	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Aleksander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u140	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I declare our support, just as we supported it at the committee meeting. The Minister's statement that this is another good bill, I would comment on this: a good bill at last, Minister. Nevertheless, the fact that we have to make these amendments, that you have to correct it, because you have noticed mistakes, gives me some thought. These are 2 laws that are placed next to each other. Why could this not be done at the earlier level of the ministerial project? And it's happened with the previous laws that we had to rewrite them, rewrite them, rewrite them... Soon, in a moment, we'll be working on the Supreme Court. This concerns the determination of the validity of the elections. We're gonna be eight. They've been updating the Supreme Court Act. Well, it's not an upbuilding example of legislation, since we have to correct some laws so quickly, every now and then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u141	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill will be held at the end of the meeting. We proceed with the review of item 16 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Lawyers and the Law on Lawyers. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1244 and the report of the Commission . in print No 1244 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Andrzej Mioduszewski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u142	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions on the Law adopted by the Sejm on 19 July 2019 amending the Law on Law of Lawyers and the Law on Lawyers. The bill submitted to the Senate aims to take into account the particular situation in which solicitors and solicitors may find themselves after completing the application when due to complications related to pregnancy or because of maternity or long-term illness they will not be able to take the vocational examination in the near future. According to the applicable rules, the applicant who completed the application may remain on the list of applicants for another year and retain the right to replace a lawyer or legal counsel before courts, law enforcement authorities, state authorities, local authorities and other institutions. During the indicated period, it is in principle possible to take an exam and obtain an entry on the appropriate list lawyers or legal advisers . and, as a consequence, the acquisition of the professional powers necessary to carry out the activities reserved for the representatives of those professions themselves. At times, however, applicants may experience objective difficulties when it comes to taking the bar exam or counseling exam in one of the following months after the application has been completed. Such situations are considered to be... Three such situations have been taken into account here. The first is the occurrence in an applicant of pregnancy-related complications lasting at least 30 days during the last 6 months of the application and also between the end of the application and the end of the exam. The second case is an applicant's disease causing incapacity to work for at least 90 days or requiring hospitalisation for at least 21 days, during the last 6 months of the application or during the period from the end of the application to the date of completion of the examination. The third case is the birth by the applicant of the child in the last year of the application or during the period from the end of the application to the date of completion of the bar exam, or when the date of birth has been fixed at a date not later than 3 months from the date of completion of the examination. In these 3 cases, the competent authority of the local authority A district attorney's council or a district counsellor's council. It will be possible, at the request of the person concerned, to extend the period during which the applicant is entered on the list of applicants by one year from the date of completion of the application and supported by the relevant documents. In total, this period will be 2 years and will not be subject to further extension. A positive resolution of the self-government body will affect the behaviour of the applicant mentioned earlier in his/her mandate to replace a lawyer, which in turn, according to the justification of the project, is intended to affect the professional situation of the applicant concerned, and in particular to result in his/her continued suitability as a lawyer or counsellor. Following a review of the Act at its meeting on 30 July 2019, the committee asks the High Senate to adopt the attached draft resolution and to adopt the Act without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u143	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the minority rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Alexander Potoj, to present the proposals of the minority committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u144	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! Well, I have to thank you for this initiative. However, I have proposed such a solution, which the solicitor and counsel community have submitted as comments to this submission. Almost identically sounding proposals were also made by our Legislative Office. It seems to me that the change is not large, because it concerns the deletion of a catalogue of cases where enumeratively it is said when the Bar Council or the Council of Legal Counsel may take this decision. From such a life perspective, it seems to be a much better and much clearer solution. I know, I know the argument that previously local communities didn't want this kind of solution at all. I think it was a mistake. However, this does not change the situation in any way, since the ministry has a good idea and has come up with this initiative, it may be better to leave it more open. Well, either way, we leave the decision to the council. It seems like it would be better if this decision was on the board. If not, then... Well, I'd like to hear from the Minister why he thinks that such a solution, proposed by the local authorities and by our Legislative Office, is not enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u145	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Is there anyone in the senators who would like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. The bill was introduced by the Sejm Committee. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Come on in, Minister. Minister Marcin Warchoł.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u146	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As far as the project is concerned, it is really important to meet young people who are often in different situations of life, such as pregnancy, raising a child, often a disease. Which require that this period be extended to 2 years, so thank you very much for your positive opinion. Why do we think open causes would not be advisable? There are at the moment 24 district attorneys' councils and there are 19 district counsellors' councils, a total of 43. The absence of specific indications, such as those we are proposing here, will mean that this provision will be applied freely. That's what we're afraid of. There is a high risk of unequal treatment of young people, any interpretation of these rules. This may affect very few people, as the vast majority of people take the exams immediately after completing the application, immediately. I will give you the data: On 31 December 2018, the lawyer's application was completed by 1 thousand 34 people and 96% of the exam took place in March of this year. These people. In this group, therefore, only 40 people could potentially be interested in extending this period. An extension of a year shall be made by means of a resolution of the district attorneys' and counsellors' councils. Why am I showing this information? Because this indicates the uniqueness of the application of this provision. In this context, excessive expansion creates freedom and may pose a threat to the interests of these young people themselves. There may also be a problem with checking the correctness of resolutions taken by local governments. In principle, the law does not provide for a review of the validity of such resolutions. Alternatively, it could be considered here to refer an action to the Supreme Court because of the non-legality of a given resolution, but there are possibilities to adopt this procedure in case of individual resolutions. So there are formal obstacles. These young people will not have the opportunity to complain to the court. But when there's a reason, then we'll have a case taken care of. It's illegal, it's not a question of legitimacy, it's a question of legality, and we think it serves the interests of the applicants better. In the case of such a general condition as the senator is calling for, it would be difficult to identify a clear violation of the law. We therefore believe that the draft should be adopted in the same version as in the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u147	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may raise questions from a place of no more than one minute to the representative of the government relating to this item on the agenda. Nobody wants to ask a question. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor of Senator Aleksander Pociej, who is traditionally active at this stage of the sitting.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u148	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will also say very briefly, because in this report I said what I had to say. Minister, one thing: a very good project again. Indeed, many times these young people have been suspended in the air for a year because of accidents of chance, the causes of which they were not guilty. So this is a very good initiative. I will vote for my amendments and try to convince them. One general remark. I think you should have a little more faith in local governments and you should believe them more, because this is your partner, not your opponent. And these are people with a huge job, a life. I think that leaving their decisions to a wider extent where, as you pointed out, as we both noticed, the environment wasn't particularly open to it... Well, that would also indicate that this provision would not be abused even if left completely discreet, leave it to the council's decision. So I have this appeal. But thank you so much for this initiative.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u149	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I volunteer, if you don't mind, Mr. Marshal... I'm closed, Mr. Senator. I can't... Uh-huh. I can't take it back. Lawyer... I'm so sorry. I wanted to report an amendment... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Unfortunately, it's too late. All right. But that won't make us later... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill will be held at the end of the meeting. [[Talking in the O.R.]] We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the Act amending the bankruptcy law and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No. 1265, and the report of the Commission In print No 1265 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Stanisław Gogach, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! It is my pleasure to present the report in Senate print No 1265 A. This is a report by the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions on the Law adopted by the Sejm on 19 July 2019 on the amendment of the Act on Insolvency and certain other laws. Mr. Marshal sent the bill to the committee on 23 July 2019. The Commissions, after considering the Act on 30 July 2019, shall bring, as is the case in the mentioned print, the High Senate to adopt the attached draft resolution. I would like to add that a discussion took place during the joint deliberations of the committees. They were also prepared by the Legislative Bureau, as well as through the Ministry's assistance, amendments, proposed and tabled by the senators. And these amendments This is about legislative cleanliness, technical issues are reported 9. They were accepted in the block. As I am the rapporteur, and as I said, there has been a discussion, and I would like to inform you that just what we discussed during the discussion... Of course, we cited the ratio legis of this law. And here I would like to add what we also find in the materials, that the aim of the law is to improve the new model of consumer bankruptcy, which has been in force in Poland since the end of 2014. I would like to remind you that on 31 December 2014 the amendment of the Insolvency Law concerning consumer bankruptcy entered into force. When we now introduce the bankruptcy law, it is as if we extend the law of consumer bankruptcy also to businesses operating in a single business. What was said and justified by such an action is the fact that the number of these bankruptcies, as far as the 2014 Act is concerned, has increased significantly. Although it would be possible to recall from the materials such facts that, before the 2014 Act came into force, these bankruptcies were declared only 32, while in 2018, i.e. after the 2014 Act came into force... In just one year 2018... between 2015 and 2018 this number of cases increased more than 2-fold. And that is why, of course, this is the goal that we want to achieve. As far as external opinions are concerned, in addition to the opinion of the Legislative Office, legislative work was also received at this stage, at this stage of the Senate. The opinion of the Confederation of Financial Enterprises in Poland, as well as the opinion of the Confederation of Leviathan, was even the current representative of the Confederation of Leviathan. There was a discussion as to whether it was moral that the debt was prolonged, because that is what this law is really going to do, and that is what debtors are going to be subject to, and creditors are going to lose. And there was even such a proposal that, as far as those debtors who would benefit from this bankruptcy law, simply divide those debtors into single-person entrepreneurs, but on a small scale, and those enterprises that operate one-man business, but on a larger scale. Of course, it would mean that those who operate on a larger scale, and there are examples that they might be big companies... Well, that's how it's gonna be separated. I am talking about this because there was such a discussion at the committee meeting, but no one did, however, take it in such a way that it would result in some legislative proposal being made. So that the discussion took place, of course, but the result of the committee's work As I recall, the senators were just holding back and were in favour This is precisely the report I have tabled and the 9 amendments I am asking the High House to adopt. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u151	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Please, once again, Minister Marcin Warchoł.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u152	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Consumer failure is a chance to return to normal life. In 2014 there were only 30 cases of this type, at the moment there are about 6.5 thousand, but the conclusions are two times as many. The first major change is that it will not be necessary to show a culpability until the debt is extended, i.e. the determination of insolvency itself should be an opportunity to open a long-term procedure. We believe that already at this point the debtor needs help, he needs information on how he can come out of this debt, which he has often fallen into, not because of his own fault. It is often the case that Poles lose their apartment, lose their jobs for various reasons independent of each other and therefore remain in the debt loop for years, and there is no help out of nowhere for people who wish to carry out such an extension effectively. There are 200,000 insolvency proceedings in France. There are about 90,000 such cases in Germany. There are comparable numbers in the UK. In the comparable population of Canada there are 130 thousand bankruptcy proceedings per year. There are about 6.5 thousand in Poland. It is estimated that after our shift there will be up to 30,000 cases of this type. We want the debtor to make an agreement with the creditor. And that's another very important change. Without applying for bankruptcy. In the United Kingdom, most of these cases end with an agreement without bankruptcy. What are the benefits to the debtor for this purpose? Firstly, the possibility of selling apartments at market price. Unfortunately, it is often the case that the value of this apartment is underrated during the bailout auction. The achievement of the entire life of the debtor himself or his loved ones turns to ruin, goes to waste, because here the bailiff puts the apartment for sale for 2/3, 3/4 of its value. We know a lot of cases like this. To us, the ministry has many such complaints and there are conclusions to appreciate that the debtor wants to go straight, wants to sell the apartment on the free market, at market price, and the creditors will still get the money. However, today it happens that those who lose their jobs without their guilt will fall into debt, which will be affected by illness or other unfortunate random event, meet in their way a bailiff who will rip off their last shirt and the creditors will not get their money back. We therefore propose that an agreement be concluded without declaring bankruptcy. In the United Kingdom, most of these bankruptcy cases end with a deal instead of bankruptcy. Because debt, bankruptcy isn't, shouldn't be any reason for infamy, it's not a shame. This is an ordinary situation that can happen to any of us, whether it's a consumer or an entrepreneur. So a very important change: a deal instead of bankruptcy. Another change: the agreement will be assisted by a restructuring advisor from the list of certified restructuring advisors over which we, as Ministry, will supervise. Next: protection against homelessness will be available to consumers and businesses on the same basis. Because if someone is an entrepreneur, they run a one-man business activity, they are often closer to a natural person than to a large company that employs several hundred or several thousand people. It is often the case that such people or Polish family companies also need the help of the mentioned type. And that's good information for all entrepreneurs. We will be able to introduce for them these facilitations that protect against homelessness: if a tragic random situation occurs, the rent for 24 months will be guaranteed. Moreover, business people will be able to benefit from this system, just as consumers will be able to benefit from a situation in which property will be bankrupt after liquidation. They'll be treated like consumers. Next case: conditional remission of up to five years. We know how often that happens. A young man graduates from college, wants to expand his business, gets his leg out there somewhere, outbids his options, thinks another loan will put him back on his feet, and it turns out differently. And suddenly the creditors demand that he repays his debt, which often causes him to flee into a gray zone, flee abroad. We tell all these people: from now on, you don't have to run into the grey zone, you don't have to run abroad, don't be afraid of the bailiff, because there will be a conditional waiver for five years. If you get back on your feet, if you manage to find a job, if your earning opportunities improve, you'll be paying your debt. Creditors today don't get that money anyway. And they'll be able to recover their debts in case a person gets back on their feet during five years and can pay off those debts. Another thing: promotion for active debtors. If someone pays 70% claims, the repayment period will be up to one year. If someone pays 50% debt claims will be up to 2 years. Another very important change. If someone e.g. has one or the other apartment, it is now, as in this case described by me, the bailiff bid them and sells the apartment for 3/4 of the value. However, according to this law, it will be possible to sell this apartment on market terms and at the same time pay 70% debt. Other debt For a year. Or, in the case of, if it's 50% Someone's gonna sell the apartment and cover 50%. debt, repayment period of the balance is 2 years. Next case: increase for seniors the amount free from seizure to PLN 1 thousand. We want, ladies and gentlemen, to interest the elderly in consumer bankruptcy as well. The point is that they will not be left with only small money, 500 PLN for the most needed purposes, medications or other means of living, rent, rent for the apartment. $1,000. The amount free of charge is 1 thousand PLN. Please note that all these changes are addressed to a whole range of people, starting with the youngest ones, after college I am talking about changes such as conditional redemption through those who conclude different types of employment contracts, work in one place or another, want to conduct an economic activity, but their leg is due to them, those who are very active, up to those who already as seniors have a problem with repayment of debt. We want to address these changes to them, too. So the changes discussed here, the very good changes, will give us a chance for a new life. They'll let you get back to your normal life. Consumer failure will finally cease to be something reserved only for those chosen, few who can take advantage of the courtesy, the courtesy of the judge. We also know bankruptcy tourism in some courts, in others, some courts are more liberal about bankruptcy claims, other courts are more rigorous. And yesterday I heard about the case of an entrepreneur who, ladies and gentlemen, went to Slovakia to extend himself there. He closed his successful business in Poland and, as far as I know, he will open it in Slovakia because he benefited from the solutions there. So the chance for a new life, the chance to return to normal life is consumer bankruptcy. We believe that these 30,000 proceedings can be successfully handled by restructuring advisers who will be on our certified list. And here is good information for all those who today face unpaid debts. And let me remind you that more than 2 million Poles are struggling with this problem and are estimated to be over PLN 50 billion. However, if someone is already in the debt loop, only over the last year the debt of such an average debtor has increased from 13 to 17 thousand. This shows that if someone is in the debt loop, then the debt grows enormously, by 4,000 only during the year - this is the data for 2018. Thank you very much and I would like to ask you to support this project. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u153	Thank you, Minister. But wait a little longer, because... Oh, and more questions. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Senator Dowhan. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u154	Minister, you said it all comes down to the fact that the bailiff is bidding for 3/4 of the value or 1/2 of the value, whichever is the bidding. So maybe it's time to take care of the bailiffs. If they were on a state job and had cases, as is the case in a normal state enterprise, and not working for their own companies and businesses, there might not be so much tragedy and any conclusion could be considered in terms of helping people, not just in terms of milking as much as possible from the company or from people who are still falling.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u155	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u156	Mr. Senator, the bailiffs have stopped being businessmen, and they've become public officials, state officers because of our change. Our changes in the functioning of the bailiffs have been in force for a while, but they're bringing in what the senator says you're calling for. And the situation of making this type of bail-out is beyond any legal regulation. She doesn't give in to any specific regulations. And whether it's a 3/4 asset or a 2/3 asset... it's hard at this point to introduce something at the law level that requires the sale of assets at market price. It already regulates the market. Our change, please note, is that it is possible to make a deal with creditors on the basis of the conclusion of the agreement prior to the declaration of bankruptcy, to conclude the so-called. An agreement. The British call such a voluntary agreement with IVA creditors. You can make a deal: I will sell my apartment - I have other apartments, I can live elsewhere - and therefore you will get e.g. 70%. debt or half the debt, because this apartment is worth, let's say, 300,000. And then that kind of class doesn't exist. And today, someone who wants to apply for an extension must file for bankruptcy. So he's already fallen at this point, even though he's often not in the debt loop because of his own fault. However, all kinds of negotiations with creditors are designed to enable them to own their assets in order to sell them at market price. The housing prices are going up, so this is good news for all those who want to sell the apartment. These changes do not interfere in any way with what is in the case of bailiffs. As far as bailiffs are concerned, the matter is regulated and the issue of auction cannot be regulated from the top, by law.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u157	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u158	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The question may not be entirely related to this bill, but more or less to this sphere. Situation directly from the senator's office. There's an older man coming in, there's an execution, and there's a bailiff at his place that takes up part of the pension. And at the same time, this man gets from the recovery company maybe not to rush, because it's more like trying to interest this man in paying off the same debt earlier. He's promised that he'll get rid of it sooner or more and so on. So the company's trying to trick this old man into meeting the same debt. It's like outside the bailiff's execution procedure. What can you do then? Go straight to the D.A.'s office? Is there any other solution? Is that even forbidden?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u159	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u160	Mr. Senator, you're asking me for specific legal advice. Here's what I'm going to say: if someone makes a claim for consumer bankruptcy, the bailiff's actions are being blocked at this point. The auction conducted by the bailiff, the bailiff's proceedings are suspended because insolvency proceedings have begun. This is good information for all those who are in a situation like the one you just presented. Then bankruptcy proceedings are opened and the judge-deputies examines whether the fault of bankruptcy was light, medium or more serious. If someone fell into a debt loop without his fault, e.g. because of illness or other random situations, and today there is nothing, it can even cancel all of his debt. If a person outbids his business opportunities, he is not guilty of causing insolvency. The repayment period is up to 3 years. And if someone because of perhaps recklessness may have borrowed so many loans That's up to seven years old. That's for the innocent. to the years 3; for those who are a little more guilty Up to the age of 7. Today it does not exist, today there is no such distinction, everyone is put in a single bag and the blame is examined at the stage of the opening of insolvency proceedings. However, this change will make it impossible to examine the reasons for insolvency when opening insolvency proceedings. Because they can't be tested. 'Cause the fact that someone's trying to make an extension is already enough for us to know that they need help. We don't want to look into anyone's pocket right now and see if he has any other means of living or not, whether you're cheating or not. When it comes to frauds, we eliminate these kinds of possibilities, and I'll say it right away. In the event that someone has led to his insolvency in a deliberate manner, the act clearly uses the concept of purpose. Therefore, it will not deserve to be extended. But if it was smaller or even bigger wine It's okay. There's no problem with a person like that trying to make it longer. And that will block the bailiff's actions. That's all I can say. Whether it's a crime or not, it's up to the D.A.'s authorities to recognize it. The D.A. and the court state that there's a crime. So, if you'll excuse me, this is no longer my role.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u161	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions. Thank you. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the Act on the special powers of the victims in the event of exhaustion of the guarantee sum established on the basis of the provisions in force before 1 January 2006. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1246 and the report of the Commission In print No 1246 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u162	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Act on the special rights of persons injured in the event of exhaustion of the guarantee sum established under the provisions in force before 1 January 2006 addresses the problem of exhaustion of the guarantee amounts up to the amount in which insurance undertakings were required to have such sums at that time. And by adopting this law... persons who, on the basis of insurance from OC, are granted pensions 'Cause it's mostly about continuous benefits or pensions. And the insurance sum was exhausted... Well, insurance companies stop paying rents like this. At the moment, as we have been informed, there are 66 such cases in Poland, but with each year of course there will be more people, this number of people will grow. The Act provides that in such cases the burden of payment of benefits should be borne by the Insurance Guarantee Fund, so that it will pay pensions in such cases. Where did this problem come from? Well, the problem is... These are persons who concluded insurance contracts in the 1990s, also at the beginning of the 21st century, when these guarantee amounts were small. Today, these guarantee sums are already large enough to reach EUR 5 million That these problems are de facto absent or marginal. But before that, there were, there were, because these amounts were Sometimes 300,000 euros. See, in the impact assessment of the regulation, what these amounts were like over the years. Well, often they were simply exhausted, especially with these lifetime benefits, continuous pensions. The bill was a senate project, it was our Senate initiative, prepared under the influence of the Ombudsman and addressed to the Sejm. The Sejm slightly modified this project in agreement with... in such a triangle: social website, insurance companies and state institutions. A consensus has been developed that is acceptable. Even in a certain area, our senate proposal has been extended by a certain element, namely that these benefits will also be granted to persons who are entitled to an accident pension, although the defendant was not insured. The draft law was unanimously supported by the committee. The discussion was attended by Senator Klein, who was asking about the differences between our senate version and the version that came back from the Sejm. After obtaining this information In addition, this was also agreed with this social side, and the doubts were resolved. Well, like I said, this bill didn't raise any major controversy at the committee meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u163	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. No such questions. Thank you. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the Senate. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Would Minister Piotr Nowak like to speak? No. Thank you. The current senators may submit no more than a minute's request to the representative of the government. No such questions. I therefore open the discussion. And please take the floor of Senator Philip Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u164	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I won't be speaking long. I just want my speech to be a thank-you speech. And I'll start at the end. I would like to thank the President and all the members of the Senate's public finance committee. I would like to thank the Parliamentary Committee on Finance and Members for adopting this law. I'd like to thank the Ministry of Finance. I would like to thank the Ombudsman and all those who have worked to introduce this regulation, because these 66 people are people who really need it. But I wouldn't be here just to thank all these institutions. I'm performing for one reason. In a special way, I would like to thank Mr Tomasz Piesiecki, who is sitting there and who is the person for whom such a guarantee sum has been exhausted. On a judicial basis, he gained an increase in such a sum. And he took on this effort for months, and I would say years of carrying out this project from the moment of the petition, so that the situation in which he himself found himself could be resolved for others. Mr. Thomas had this solution for himself on a judicial basis. And Mr. Tomasz invested his time, invested his money to drive a private car from Bialystok. I must honestly say that I've met a lot of people in my life with disabilities who have had a lot of self-denial, but it's been a long time since I've met someone so heroic that, so to speak, he's been trying to make us meet here today and we can tell each other that we're at the last stage of the legislative process. I firmly believe that nothing bad will happen here and that this solution will go to the President. I also know because this was the subject of the Parliamentary Group's meeting. Persons with disabilities, to whom I chair, also from the President's office, was a solemn assurance that if this Senate bill comes out, it will be signed immediately. So I would like to thank Mr. Tomasz once again, in a special way, from this place. I'm asking you to pass this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u165	Thank you, Senator. I'm joining this thank-you. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No. 1259, and the report of the Commission In print No 1259 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u166	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present a report to the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance on the Law adopted by the Sejm on the amendment of the Act on VAT on goods and services and on certain other laws. The Commission recommends that the High House adopt a law without amendments. Such a resolution as a committee We have taken note of the fact that, when proposing this, we are making it possible to hold a debate at this meeting, to debate this very important and very necessary law, and that we will make amendments during this debate. Many proposals for amendments from different organisations have been received by the Senate Committee. The Commission has discussed in very detail All the conclusions. We had proposals for amendments from the Chief Bar Council, the Chamber of Commerce of Non-ferrous Metals and Recycling, the Chamber of Press Publishers, the Centre for Analysis of Cegielski, and the very important position of the Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child. In the course of the discussions on the proposals presented, including those prepared by the Legislative Office, the Commission has not decided to support them. However, during this meeting, I set a deadline for the senators to submit their amendments by 10.30 yesterday and such amendments were tabled. I know that Senator Klein has tabled amendments, and I have also tabled amendments, and you have also tabled amendments to Senator Martynowski. The amendments I have tabled and for which there is full agreement that they should be adopted are of two types. The first legislative amendments are necessary in order to ensure that this law is transparent and clearly constructed, eliminating errors in references to articles. So that these are only technical amendments. And there is a very important amendment, the need for adoption of which was signalled to us by the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, as well as by numerous consumer organisations and the Elbanowski State Foundation. Producers of beverages commonly called vegetable milk... This is the problem that the committee has debated extensively, and this is the problem of a certain oversight that occurred in the Sejm, I think by an unintentional oversight. It would make plant milk, to put it on the table. That is plant drinks, plant milk, which is very important for children suffering from food allergy and children with food intolerance, because these children cannot drink animal milk and this plant milk is a very important source of protein for them... This milk is more expensive than cow milk. A mistake we'll correct in the Senate... If we hadn't corrected it, the milk would have been covered with a VAT rate of 23%. , instead of 5% Just like cow's milk. So we are making an amendment on this. We are convinced that the High Senate will support the adoption of legislative amendments, as well as the substantive amendments, concerning the amendment to the table. As for the law itself, the scope of this law is this: the Minister is here, so in the interest of the time of the High House I allow myself in this group to skip this issue in my report. This is exhausting my report, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u167	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may raise questions to the Senator of the rapporteur that may last no more than a minute. Are there any such questions? They're here. I'll be back. Senator Radziwill. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u168	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I'd like to ask you about the milk or the milk replacers. What was the position of the government representative on this matter? That's all I'm interested in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u169	Mr Kościński, present at the meeting, promised to be kind to this problem. I would like to say to you that the amendment I tabled was made in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, so we have full agreement here and we correct the oversight. The scale of turnover of these products is according to the information presented by producers, about PLN 150 million per year. This is therefore not a very important financial problem, but it is socially important for this particular group of children suffering from food allergies.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u170	Thank you, Senator. There are no more questions. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Would Minister Leszek Skiba like to speak on the bill under consideration? No, thank you. Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Mr. Senator Klein. Yes, sir, I'd like to ask you here, Minister. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u171	Mr. Marshal! Minister! At the committee meeting, as Mr President said, we adopted a law without amendments. However, we have prepared these amendments, and this was the conclusion of our discussion at the committee meeting that we will be preparing these amendments. I have also prepared amendments. But Mr Kościński took part in the meeting and, therefore, I would like to ask you some questions, because I do not know whether all these comments, doubts, etc. have been forwarded. The first issue has already been clarified, i.e. this issue of vegetable milk, the reduction of VAT on them to 5%. Does the Minister also think that such an amendment can be tabled? Then, in fact, these so-called 5% VAT. vegetable milk To be charged, not 23 percent tax, as it happened after the Seym. That's the first line. The second point is the car seats. This matter was quite widely discussed at the committee meeting, even there were people interested in this problem. And the point is that in this bill, which was adopted by the Sejm, VAT on car seats, like on other children's devices, was reduced to 5%. And that's a very beneficial solution. But unfortunately, this category does not include some devices that meet exactly the same goals as seats. They're special devices, I can't describe them exactly, but they were discussed in detail at the committee meeting. However, they are charged with 23 percent VAT. Well, the problem is that these seats of at least 90% are products of foreign origin, are imported to Poland and benefit from this preferential rate of 5%, and these devices, which fulfil exactly the same function and are Polish technologies, are produced in Poland, have also patents abroad and fulfil, I say again, the same tasks, have been charged with a tax of 23 percent. So there's my draft amendment. In fact, we discussed this at the committee's meeting. In order to include them in the same tax category and to amend this provision in the Act as follows: Annex 2 to Annex 10 to the Act leaves the child seats, as is currently the case, and they are subject to a 5% tax and other child restraint devices are added in front or rear of the child. This is actually prescribed from the approval given to these devices. The paradox is that the seats are exactly the same in these approvals: these are child restraint systems facing forwards or backwards to the driving direction. The most logical thing to do is to throw away the word "foteliki" at all and leave the word "Device," but I know that here is a problem arising from the EU directive, so adding this second part, as the lawyers say, to actually consume the matter and not contradict the EU directive. What is the Minister's position on this matter?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u172	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u173	As regards this first question, Mr Bierecki has already made it clear that the amendment has been consulted with the Ministry of Finance and there is full support for the amendment tabled by President Bierecki, which concerns the maintenance of the VAT rate for vegetable milk. It is about the amendment that removes this oversight. And the answer to the senator's question about the devices that we identified as belts, in fact these are belts, is as follows. About that. At the end, Mr. Senator actually made that very clear. The questions and doubts raised are related to compliance with the Directive. Our intention as Ministry of Finance is this: if it turns out that the maintenance or reduction of the VAT rate on these devices will be in line with the directive, then from the perspective of the Ministry of Finance will be full support for the fact that other devices which are not seats, such a rate will be included. Now we're not ready. We have started a dialogue, an investigation of the European Commission, whether it will be possible to adopt such a provision. What we can declare is that if this ends positively, and it is known that the Act enters into force on 1 April, once it is established, it is possible to say, negotiate, or verify, compliance with the Directive and it turns out that there is no problem with the directive, then of course also these other devices will want to include this regulation, a reduced rate, so that they are treated as seats. Therefore, it is only a matter of not proposing a project on which there are doubts about compliance with the Directive. We just need time to have this dialogue with the Commission. We hope that on 1 April the law will enter into force after such verification.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u174	Thank you. Mr. Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u175	I'd like to refer to that one more time. Thank you so much for this information. I think it's really going in that direction that there's a chance we can get this thing done. These producers, according to the letter that has come to us, have been fighting for many, many months, so to speak, a dispute or discussion with various institutions in Poland. There is only such concern whether, as car seats producers are mainly producers from other EU countries, there is one or two very large producers, they will not try to block this solution at EU level. The point is that this Polish technology has patents almost throughout the European Union and as they say It competes quite strongly with car seats, because it is a much cheaper product, and the safety conditions meet even better than these seats. Will there be enough determination on the part of the Ministry of Finance to resist the pressure of these other foreign producers in this matter?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u176	Mr. Senator, make an amendment, and you will have a discussion at the committee meeting... I'm sorry. ...with questions, answers, etc., because there's this kind of discussion. This is a matter of settlement, not of questions and answers to the question. Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? Yes. Who? Oh, Senator Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u177	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Here we move away from the reverse charge mechanism for split payments, that's how I understand it. Does that mean the other one is more efficient? What will be the effect of this, how do you estimate?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u178	Thank you very much. In gold, of course. Thank you, Senator. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u179	I'm just gonna let you answer the question... There you go, on the subject. Yes, on the issue of... I have no doubt that the Polish government will be determined to defend the interests of Polish producers, so such determination will definitely be. As far as reverse charges and payments are concerned, we estimate that this system solution will amount to about PLN 1 billion. In general, it can be said that the reverse charge was introduced many years ago and was applied in many cases, but there is also evidence that it is a solution that also generates some problems, the problems of... If the VAT system functions naturally VAT payment is at different stages of component production and finally there is a final sale to the consumer It's really here there is no risk, the VAT system causes these partial VAT payments to go to the state budget. In the case of reverse charge, the total amount is actually paid at the last stage, which, of course, exposes the problem of identification. The question is, isn't someone who buys a product impersonating a consumer, and really is a representative... says he's a company, and he's really a consumer. Then there's no VAT at all... So, despite all the benefits of the reverse charge, there is a certain risk. The split payment mechanism solves this problem. This means that all payments in the framework of the settlement between the company and the company end up in a separate account. Therefore, in order to avoid problems, we avoid situations in which transactions between companies do not take into account VAT and we are only hoping to do so. At the final stage of the sale, at the consumer's... And this sale doesn't really happen because someone takes the invoice, pretending to be a company, and really the transaction takes place for the consumer, and technically, in the sense of documentation, for the company. And that's the minus. The split payment solution is better and for this reason it is an attempt to introduce a new system solution. As far as the amount is concerned, here is PLN 1 billion. It is known that this applies to specific industries that are listed in the Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u180	Thank you. I don't see any more questions. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Kleina.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u181	Mr. Marshal Borusewicz mobilized me a bit to perform. I thought that at the question stage all doubts would be resolved, but perhaps it is better that I say two more words from the Senate stand, because the bill we are working on is a law, I think, that solves the various problems related to the operation of VAT. It is well known that the VAT and Vat crimes issue is a very dynamic issue, it changes and evolves in different directions. When VAT was introduced in the European Union many years ago - No, there wasn't a European Union yet. And then in Poland, it was assumed that it would be a very tight solution. In fact, it was much tighter than other previous solutions. But the reality had to verify that opinion. Soon there were those who could and wanted to criminally avoid this tax on goods and services. Solutions that we are introducing consistently in Poland, even from the previous term, the work that we started... The reverse payment, later also split VAT payment, were ideas that were developed during the government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party. They started to work and they started to work. The following provisions, which have already been introduced in this term of office, have confirmed these actions, these provisions have been extended. So that this should be supported and praised. The rules that we are introducing today's law are also heading in the right direction, among others. because VAT on certain goods is reduced. It needs to be commended honestly and honestly and to be glad that it is. The amendments that I would like to propose are amendments that have already been discussed here, so they will be accepted as easily as I think they are. So here's the question of 5% VAT on so-called VAT. vegetable milk. This issue was raised in the Sejm by our club, the Civic Platform club, but then we failed to convince the parliamentary majority to do so, and now there is support here, and it is glad that it is so. So I think it's gonna work. The second amendment was not dealt with in the Sejm, the interested parties probably could not reach then... they did not see the possibility of debate or the possibility of dealing with these matters at parliamentary level. However, now those interested have reached us, sent a request to all senators regarding 5% VAT for devices similar to car seats. I therefore make an amendment here. I hope she'll be supported. It seems to me that it could be supported and that this would not interfere with the discussion that the Minister of Finance will be conducting with the European Commission in order to properly interpret the term car seats. As I said, a car photographer is at all such a concept not described in the law. As I read later, the ministry's interpretation was based solely on the definition contained in the dictionary of Polish. Well, these devices are approved at the same level, they're exactly the same name, so logic would indicate that this should be interpreted in this way. It's possible that And here, the minister also kindly approached this issue. In order to deal with this matter more quickly, this can be done by individual interpretation of the Minister. Maybe it'll work sooner, easier and easier. We'll see. You can see that the Minister is very kind to this matter. Also yesterday and today it was seen Then he must be thanked. The third issue, the third amendment I would like to make here, concerns certain specific issues relating to the split payment mechanism. I'm not gonna explain it here anymore, because maybe the marshal will tell me that these things should be explained and clarified at the committee meeting. So let me just say that I am adding this third issue to this, and it concerns the cost of obtaining business income, which will not be fully classified as an appropriate category. So these 3 amendments I would like to make and ask First of all, the committee and then the entire House to support these amendments that I have tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u182	Thank you, Senator. And I'm asking for corrections. I'll come from the other side. Good. It doesn't matter which way you fold it. To get them there. To get them there. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the senators Marek Martynowski and Czesław Ryszka made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. I would also like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing by Senators Marek Martynowski, Grzegorz Bierecki and Kazimierz Klein. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? No. Thank you. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the item on the 20th agenda: the Act on Accessibility to persons with special needs. The text of the Act is contained in print No. 1249, and the report of the Commission In print No 1249 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Wiesław Dobkowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u183	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure the opinion of the Committee on the Act on Accessibility to persons with special needs. The purpose of the bill is... It sets out measures to ensure the availability of architecture, digital and information and communication to people with special needs and public actors' responsibilities in this area. The Act considers persons with special needs to be persons who, either because of their external or internal characteristics or because of the circumstances in which they are located, must take additional measures or take additional measures to overcome barriers which prevent or impede their participation in different spheres of life on an equal basis with other persons. The Act considers barriers or restrictions on architecture, digital or information and communication which prevent or hinder people with special needs from participating in different spheres of life on an equal basis with others. Architectural, digital and information and communication availability is, in accordance with the Act, accessibility fulfilling the requirements of universal design and reasonable improvements within the meaning of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities at least within the scope of, first, architectural accessibility including: the provision of barrier-free horizontal and vertical communication spaces for buildings; the installation of equipment or the application of technical measures and architectural solutions in a building which allow access to all premises, excluding technical spaces; the provision of information on the distribution of premises in the building at least visually and to the touch or voice; the provision of access to the building to the assisted dog referred to in Article. 2 point 11 of the Act of 27 August 1997 on occupational and social rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities; providing persons with special needs with the possibility to evacuate or rescue them otherwise. Secondly, as regards the availability of information and communication including: handling by means of communication support measures; installation of devices or other technical means to support hearing impaired persons, in particular inductive loops, FM systems or devices based on other technologies intended to assist hearing; provision on the entity's website of information on the scope of its activities in the form of an electronic file containing machine-readable text, recording of content in Polish sign language and information in an easy-to-read text; ensuring, at the request of a person with specific needs, communication with a public entity in the form set out in that request. Third, as regards digital accessibility, including the requirements set out in the Act of 4 April 2019 on the accessibility of digital websites and mobile applications of public entities. According to the Act, it is the responsibility of public bodies to ensure that people with special needs are available. The coordination of accessibility for persons with special needs will be carried out by the Minister responsible for regional development, where the Accessibility Council will act. The Act introduces provisions on the certification of accessibility, alternative access and complaint proceedings concerning the lack of architectural or information and communication accessibility. The Act creates the Accessibility Fund as a State-wide special-purpose fund to carry out tasks consisting in supporting actions to ensure the availability of persons with special needs or improving them. The Act also introduces a number of amendments to existing legislation aimed at new solutions and corrections and additions related to the provision of architectural, digital and information and communication accessibility to people with special needs. The essential date of entry into force of the Act is 14 days from the date of publication. Accessibility certification rules are to enter into force on a separate date. 18 months after the date of publication, as well as provisions on public contracts, complaint proceedings and the right to provide information pursuant to Article. The 12th Patient Rights Act and the ombudsman. These will enter into force 24 months after the date of the announcement. Mr Marshal, High Senate, the committee held a discussion, there were quite a number of players at the meeting. Everyone in general supported this bill. Some details have been explained, such as the financing of this Accessibility Fund and details of who we consider to be a person with special needs. Because this is not only about people with disabilities, but also about older people, people who, for example, they have been in an accident and have not been fully operational in time. The idea is to have this access to the extent they need, of course, as far as possible. So that these details were discussed. In fact, there was consensus, and they all agreed that such a law should be adopted. The vote took place and the committee unanimously adopted this law as a result of the vote. He presents it to the High Senate for approval and asks the Senate to accept the bill in its entirety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u184	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Senator Piotr Florek. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u185	Mr. Senator, could you say a few words - because this is a new law and there was a discussion about decent legislation - about the amendments proposed by the Legislative Bureau? How many were there? What were the proposals? Why so much?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u186	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u187	In fact, the Legislative Bureau has put forward many proposals for amendments, but they have not been tabled by the senators. They were about the clarification... These were basically legislative proposals for amendments concerning...or do I know? Some clarification or correct legislation, etc. It was about the legal details. I don't want to dig into them because I'm not a lawyer. In any event, these proposed amendments were not accepted by the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u188	Thank you, Senator. Thank you. There are no more questions. The bill was filed by the Senate. The Minister for Investment and Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does Minister Małgorzata Jarosińska-Jedynak wish to speak on the bill under consideration? If so, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u189	Thank you very much. (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Dear Senate! I don't want to take up precious time. I would just like to express my sincere thanks to non-governmental organisations, which have worked very much with us on this law, and to say that it is very well received by people with disabilities. It is a law which is primarily a system act. This is new in the legislative process. It aims to combat discrimination against people with special needs. And this, as the rapporteur mentioned, concerns not only people with disabilities, but also older people, people suffering from temporary disability, for example. people moving with huge luggage. This law contains numerous instruments to ensure accessibility, but also creates a Accessibility Council, which is to be such an expert body working at the Minister for Regional Development and which is to be composed of representatives of organisations and various resorts, including organisations operating with disabled persons. The idea is to work out the best possible solutions to avoid architectural barriers, to communicate and to create a public space that is essential for people with disabilities. Therefore, I cordially ask the Senate to adopt this law in this form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u190	Thank you, Minister. And now I'm asking if there are any questions for the Minister. If so, they should apply to the contested law and should not last more than 1 minute. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. There you go. But, Minister, I would ask...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u191	Minister, if you don't mind... This law introduces certain soft actions, so I would call them, e.g. the establishment of an Accessibility Board, but also a hard one, e.g. ensuring the availability of all public buildings for people with special needs. What country do you give yourselves a time horizon to do this? Because it's kind of a revolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u192	Thank you. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u193	As regards accessibility in the case of public buildings, the Act gives 24 months to apply the solutions indicated in the Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u194	Is this real, Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u195	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u196	I think so. The Act also gives the possibility to use alternative access, so we will not in every case have to build elevators or build ramps. We can install a staircase, we can use alternative solutions. I think this time will be enough.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u197	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions. Senator Rooster. Oh, Senator Rooster. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u198	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I've got a question for you. What's it gonna be like in rail transport? What's the time to adjust all the trains, the wagons? I'm just talking about people with disabilities. Because what you're watching right now... Okay. 80%. wagons are not adapted for disabled persons. I have seen even such cases that people in wheelchairs were simply transported in gate cards, i.e. mail cars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u199	There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u200	As far as rail transport is concerned, it is not indicated in this law at the prescribed time.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u201	Thank you. There are no more questions. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Philip Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u202	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will generally praise this bill. I'd like to say it at first. I'll start with an anecdote that, I think, should be a lesson for all of us. It is not that I would like to use this anecdote as a starting point for criticizing the bill. Well, I've had the pleasure of saying that before in this room. To be at the inauguration of this whole project, which was the "Availability Plus" programme, which, I say, the legislative fruit of which is this law. Mr Morawiecki opened this at the Science Centre. He spoke very widely about what this law will contain in the government's mind. When the Prime Minister finished, the host said: now I invite everyone to dinner. There were about 30 people in wheelchairs. We drove to the next room and there were all high tables in the next room. Some of the hosts have arranged for us 3 tables of sufficient height so that we can have dinner. I'm not saying this to pick on you, I'm just trying to show you that even with the good will to change the reality that surrounds us, there are still many patterns in our heads that we need to break. Because, in fact, you could have invited someone in a wheelchair 10 minutes earlier to this room who would look at her and say that there are no low tables. The problem would be solved costlessly. This is such a slogan for me for this law: availability will be when we teach people to think in terms of availability. But that doesn't mean I don't want to say anything positive. It's very good that this bill is. I agree with the fact that he may have some legislative shortcomings, there are more or less of them. It's kind of a different story. But the fact that such a law will work in public reality is a positive thing. I think it would be worth saying one more thing, because there's some confusion here. I understand this law as a fundamental tool to seek EU funds in the new financial perspective, based on this law. It would be good to make this clear to potential beneficiaries, because when you talk to representatives of certain groups of people with disabilities, you can see that they believe that this money is already guaranteed and there is only a question of how we will reach for it. This is not the case, and it is good to emphasize that there is no such situation that these expectations, which are big, will be missed with reality. So it is worth saying no more, we have only: we have created ourselves a tool to reach for this money in the new EU perspective. And now I want to say something, and that's probably the biggest compliment on the authors and initiators of this bill. I've been meeting with a lot of people, people who worked during the construction of this bill. I think I'm gonna talk about one person because it's the most symbolic one. Mr Krzysztof Marciniak called me, this is you who is creating the National Centre for the Mobility of Persons with Disabilities, so-called. COMON. And Mr. Marciniak said, "Sir, there are some strange things going on here, because for the first time since I've been doing this, they've been calling from the ministry themselves to make haste with the materials I was supposed to prepare, and I'm going to shorten my time trying to do it." And he goes on to say, sir, we're on the right path. The environment has already learned that it is worth getting in the interest of this law, because then solving their problems goes faster, and they are rushed, so that everything they can provide to solve these problems is provided. It's certainly something positive and something that hasn't happened on this scale before, I admit. Of course, it is a matter of individual solutions, whether these 2 years are enough time. I agree with Senator Czerwinski here. I'm abstracting from the railroad, because let's say this: the availability of air transport and the availability of rail transport for people with disabilities are two completely different realities. Using an airplane, I can travel around the world, get off the road five times, and I'll be served everywhere. As far as the railroad is concerned, none of us know exactly what it's gonna be like. That's not gonna last two years. And are they enough to access public buildings? Was he what he was supposed to be? I share Senator Czerwinski's doubts in this regard. I would just like to draw attention to one aspect when it comes to accessibility, this is the issue of historic buildings, including religious buildings. This is where we're gonna collide with the antiquities conservator, and we need to have an idea. I believe that the way in which the pulpit was adapted in the Sejm shows that it is possible to find consensus between the preservation of space or the historical substance and its adaptation to people with disabilities. But here was the issue of parliament, here they were racing, so to speak, the best professionals in this area, because there was some prestige in that they would adjust the Parliament hall, which happened not in the previous one, but in the previous term. It would be worth considering how a certain conflict of interest between the conservationist of monuments and those who will adapt this space and make it available... Will we be able to use the tools that will allow this to happen on the basis of this law? This is my doubt and in this speech I wanted to make a special appeal in connection with this matter. Thank you again, thank you for taking up this difficult task, with this condition, to make it clear that this is a tool for reaching for measures, and not that it already provides these measures. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u203	Thank you, Senator. As part of the discussion, I would like to draw attention to the fact that many parliamentary and senatorial offices... He's unavailable. ...is not adapted for use by the disabled. Of course, in the case of building new buildings, it is a duty to adapt, but most of our offices are in buildings that were built 10, 20 years ago. One of the organizations for disabled people in Gdynia pointed out this to me. We should take care of this in the next term of office, because it is a shame that our offices, some of our offices, are not adapted to the services of people with disabilities. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Dear Senators, I would like to inform you that point twenty-first, concerning the Social Services Act by the Social Services Centre, will be considered on Friday. We therefore proceed with the examination of item twenty-second of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Social Assistance and the Law on the Protection of Mental Health. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1250 and the report of the committee In print No 1250 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Richard Majer, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u204	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! I am pleased to present a report on the meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, which took place on 30 July, concerning the Act amending the Law on Social Assistance and the Law on the Protection of Mental Health. The proposed law provides for amendments to both of these laws. The aim of the proposed changes is to reduce irregularities in institutions providing 24-hour care for people with disabilities, chronically ill, elderly people, and thus to increase the safety of elderly and disabled people in 24-hour institutions. The amendment also aims to facilitate the authorisation of establishments, particularly those with little scope, by relaxing certain standards and clarifying the provisions on documents required for the application for authorisation. The Act also regulates the rules of residence in establishments and the rules of leaving them by persons to whom the Law on the Protection of Mental Health applies. Rules have also been laid down to limit the self-leaving of social assistance homes and institutions by their residents who are mentally disturbed, which sometimes caused problems in closed facilities. In addition, in view of the demands of those whose parents have been sent to a social assistance home, the Act extends the catalogue of situations where they can be exempted from the obligation to pay for a person's stay in a social assistance home. In general, the provisions of the Act are based on environmental signals, from what the heads of offices brought to the Ministry of the Family. The purpose of the Ministry is to amend the Social Assistance Act and the Mental Health Act further so that they correspond to existing situations and clarify these situations. The point is not to leave the people in these facilities in danger. As a matter of fact, there was no major controversy in the committee's discussion. It has been pointed out that the Social Aid Act is becoming more and more extensive. Well, as the lawyers say, otherwise it can't be, so we're going in that direction. I'm asking the Senate to accept this bill without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u205	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators can report no more than a minute of questioning to the Senator of the rapporteur. I don't see any calls like that. Thank you, Senator. Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Minister Kazimierz Kuberski like to speak on the bill under consideration? No. Thank you. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's request to the representative of the government relating to this agenda. No such questions. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. I would also like to inform you that the vote on the bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-third of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Minimum Compensation for Work. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1251, and the report of the Commission In print No 1251 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Andrzej Kaminski, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u206	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy a report on the work of the committee held on 30 July 2019 on the Law amending the Law on Minimum Compensation for Work. The Act amending the Law on Minimum Compensation for Work provides for an extension of the list of components of remuneration which are not taken into account when calculating the employee's salary compared with the minimum salary for the work, the allowance for the traineeship. The aim of these changes is to ensure a fairer and more transparent shape of the minimum wage and to improve the situation of workers receiving the lowest wage. The proposed amendment responds to social expectations. The need to exclude work allowance from the minimum wage category shows numerous speeches by citizens, trade union representatives and parliamentarians. It should be stressed that the proposed change has been welcomed by the employers' and workers' side of the Social Dialogue Council. The exclusion of work allowances from the minimum wage category will contribute inter alia. to increase the motivation of workers and their attachment to the workplace, which is particularly important in the current situation in the labour market. The allowance for traineeships shall not be of a general nature. The right shall apply to certain professional groups, including members of the budgetary unit. Employers outside the budgetary sphere shall themselves determine the conditions for the remuneration of employees, including possibly a component such as the salary allowance. In view of the variety of names used and the different rules for granting the allowance for traineeships applicable to individual employers, the law in Article. 1 introduces a definition of the allowance for internship. In turn, since the exclusion of the salary allowance from the minimum wage may affect contracts concluded under the Public Procurement Law, the Act contains transitional provisions that allow negotiations to be held on the conclusion of an agreement on an appropriate change in the remuneration of the economic operator due. The Act is to enter into force on 1 January 2020. During the work and discussion, the members of the committee did not comment on the Act amending the Act on Minimum Compensation for Work. The bill was adopted unanimously. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy requests that the Senate adopt the proposed draft resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u207	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka wishes to ask such a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u208	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question. I don't know if the rapporteur will answer me or if you might be the Minister. I have the following question. If the salary allowance for years is not added to the basic salary, how is this possible in the future when calculating the pension? Does it have something to do with it, or does it have nothing to do with it? Is this beneficial for the citizen? Let's just say that when he's working, it's beneficial, but does it work well or bad afterwards? The question may be naive, but I don't know what the consequences are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u209	Thank you. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u210	Mrs. Senator, this topic was not raised, but looking at the issue of the salary that the employee will receive, it can be said that most likely the one who was on minimum salary will have a higher salary, so it will later also work for an increased pension for the employee concerned.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u211	Senator Florek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u212	Here's the question: since the salary allowance is not included in the minimum wage - That's very right. Is there any other elements, other ingredients, other than the internship allowance, which is not included in the minimum wage?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u213	Previously, this minimum wage was also excluded from the allowance for over-sized hours. The allowance for working hours at night was also excluded from the earlier amendment of the Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u214	There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u215	There's also an allowance for harmful working conditions, which is also an addition. Is it part of the salary?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u216	At the moment I'm not sure, but I suspect that this supplement is also not used to calculate the minimum wage. If I'm wrong, the Minister will probably correct it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u217	No further questions. Thank you, Senator. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Minister Kazimierz Kuberski like to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Kazimierz Kuberski: I can, in relation to these questions.]] You're welcome. There will be questions for you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u218	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! In addition to the answers to the questions that your senators have asked, I would like to say that of course As the Senator rapporteur pointed out, This affects the pension in such a way that it increases the salary because the salary will increase, so there will be a larger pension dimension, all benefits. Maybe I'll give you the numbers that are going to represent these raises. So we estimate that the average increase in the income of a public sector worker, because this is actually the case for public sector workers, we assume that the law will cover about 56,5 thousand people employed in this sector. This is going to be PLN 206. In the case of the less-earned earner with the shortest period of employment, i.e. 5 years, this will increase by about 90 PLN, and in the case of a person who is 20 years of employment or more, this increase will amount to about 355 PLN. On average, like I said, 206 zł. As far as the latter is concerned, that is to say, including or not including the wage components in the minimum wage, this is our second change. The first concerned the exclusion from 1 January 2017 of the allowance for night work. This is the second most important one, because this is, as the senator said, the most postulated change and the most socially just one, so we are introducing it now. Of course, there are also components of remuneration such as bonuses and prizes, additional salaries for work carried out within the current working time, but not directly from the scope of the employee's activities, and allowances of a deputative nature. Of course, we are considering further such steps, further non-inclusion, but the impact of each of them must be assessed in terms of burdens for employers or for the public finance sector. It's on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u219	Thank you, Minister. Are there any more... Senator Florek. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u220	You said it only applies to the public sector. So I understand that the employment allowance generally applies only to the public sector. Only in this sense will this minimum wage be higher. In the private sector, there is, as I understand it, an allowance for internship. That's what I'm saying. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u221	As a matter of fact, yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u222	Any more questions? There isn't. Thank you, Minister. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-four of the agenda: Act amending the Act on Pension Supply to Police Officers, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Counterintelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, Central Anti-corruption Office, Border Guard, State Security Service, State Fire Department, Customs and Prison Service and their families and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1252, and the report of the Commission In print No 1252 A. You're a senator. Good, 'cause it's... We're all here, Mr. Marshal. Thank you very much. I've already been alerted here... I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Antoni Szymański, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u223	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Invited guests! I would like to present on behalf of the two joint committees an opinion on the Act amending the Act on Pension Supply to Police Officers, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Counterintelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, Central Anti-corruption Office, Border Guard, State Security Service, State Fire Security Service, Customs and Prison Service and their families and some other laws, print No. 1252. The aim of the law is to regulate two issues. The first is the pension supply of uniformed officers and professional soldiers, the second compensation for the officer in exchange for the service time exceeding the statutory standard. To this end, the pension provision law of those services shall be amended. The amendment aims to harmonise pension rules in all groups of uniformed services both as regards the conditions for the acquisition of pension rights and as regards the establishment of the pension base. Amendment made by law adopted on 19 July this year. abolishes the condition of 55 years of age and the related provision which allowed the possibility of retirement without the age of fifty-five if, on the date of discharge from service, the officer has reached 25 years of service and the discharge is for reasons not attributable to the officer, a professional soldier identified in the various laws relating to those entities. The change adopted to obtain a right to uniform pensions therefore eliminates the condition that the right to a pension be acquired in order to reach a certain age, leaving one condition, which is 25 years of service. Regulation in the so-called the pragmatic laws of the various formations relate to monetary compensation for service time exceeding the 40-hour service week standard for settlement periods from 1 January to 30 June of the year concerned and from 1 July to 31 December of the year concerned. In exchange for a service time exceeding the standard, the officer shall have the same duty-free time during the settlement period or, after the end of the settlement period, monetary compensation, provided that he does not apply for service-free time within 10 days of the end of the trading period. The amount of the monetary compensation shall be fixed at the level of 1/172 of the part of the monthly basic salary together with allowances of a permanent nature due on the post occupied on the last day of the reference period; this shall be available for each hour of the non-normative service time. The Act contains transitional provisions under which, for a non-normative period of service carried out in the period prior to the date of entry into force of the Act, only free time granted on the basis of the existing provisions will be granted. The Act is to enter into force 14 days after the date of publication with effect from 1 July of this year. Two issues were particularly discussed during the committee meeting. One was the comment submitted by the Legislative Bureau. The Legislative Office considered whether the proposed legislation is constitutional or not, given the fact that no retirement age is indicated, it is merely a job placement. The second issue, which was particularly strongly discussed and will be addressed by the minority's request, concerned settlements for over-normative working time not every six months and quarterly. In addition, during the committee meeting, questions were asked and answers were expected, whether such solutions as were negotiated, agreed with the various services, would not lead to a decrease in the number of officers and whether this would pose a problem for the individual services. The majority of committees considered that these rules were correct and proposed that the law be adopted without amendments. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]] Thank you for your attention, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u224	Thank you very much, Senator. Right now, senators can... Sorry, that was the rapporteur who... Most of them. Most, well, yes. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Aleksander Pociej, to present the proposals of the minority of the committee. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u225	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! I would like to make proposals for minorities. We proposed in the article. Three, four, six and seven, so that the settlement period is not six months, just three months, as Senator Szymański just said. We have indeed tabled such an amendment at the request of trade union representatives. Today, in these four departments, the situation is that in one service this settlement period is 6 months, in the other 4 months, in the other two departments. 3 months each. In the agreement signed between the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, Mr Joachim Brudziński, and representatives of trade unions, in the agreement of 8 November 2018 is the provision in §3 point 2 that these accounts will be After the adoption of the six-month reference period This Decision shall enter into And from the information that came to me, as well as from the Ministry of Interior and Administration's newsletter, That's what I said. That the six-month overtime settlement period will initially be applied and the question of determining the reference period for the following years will be further discussed. I would therefore like to ask the Minister a question: where is this dialogue? Because if we say there's a six-month period for now, and then we start a dialogue... Well, if it ends at six months, it's because there was no dialogue, it's just a dictation. Therefore, I would very much ask the senators on behalf of the trade unions of these services to accept such a proposal to make it a 3-month settlement. Why three months? The trade unionists argued this in this way: the shorter the settlement period is, the greater the possibility that these overtimes will be paid. Why? It's very simple. If there is overtime, if there is over-normative work, it lasts in some short period of time. If we set this timer for six months, this record will remain illusory. If this is a three-month period, then it will be possible that people who work in extra-normative working time will be able to take away in any way what is due to them and what should be paid to them at a time when they work extra-normatively. And that is the whole proposal and justification for the minority proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u226	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administration has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Today we have Minister Jarosław Zieliński, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. Would the Minister like to speak on this bill? Mrs. Marshal, at this stage, thank you. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative related to the item on the agenda. Senator Pociej has a question like that. So, Minister, I invite you to the speaker, because there will be a question for the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u227	I have one simple question. What happened to the agreement that was signed by the unionists with Minister Brudziński?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u228	Will there be any more questions for the Minister? Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u229	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! To answer the senator's question, I would like to say that this agreement is consistently implemented. It is consistently implemented and this bill is proof of this. You question one provision relating to the settlement period, I think it is wrong. First of all, the agreement only covers the first period, i.e. 2019. And in §3 we agreed both sides, social and government side In this first period it will be a six-month period, i.e. between July and the end of the year these overtime will be settled next year. I will be paid out next year from the 2020 budget. We have not been hiding here from the beginning that it is also a matter of not being a burden on the 2019 budget, because during this financial year and the implementation of the budget these negotiations have been lasting, and both sides understand this as an absolute necessity. As far as further questions are concerned, the agreement does not resolve this in any way. It must be said honestly and read this agreement as it is inextensively formulated. There's no obligation in him that you've told me about, Senator. You quoted the newsletter, but not the agreement. Well, I don't know what content was written in the newsletter, probably just like you called here, but the document that binds both sides is the one that we signed. And there's no contradiction here. Incidentally, I'd like to ask the senator and the senators who are asking you to shorten this settlement period so that you can consider whether you are doing the right thing. Because I have doubts and doubts about some of the officers we've talked to about it. The 6-month period is more flexible and gives more opportunities, both sides, and the side of the superiors, and the officer who wants either to take back the free time for these overtimes, or to obtain a financial equivalent. Shortening it to three months will stiffen it. So it doesn't have to be bad at all. Please pay attention. Also, that today in the State Fire Department, in which payment has been in force for several years, only that it amounts to 60% of the hourly rate, and after the adoption of this law it will also be 100% in this service. , as in all A six-month settlement period with a three-month payout period shall apply after that settlement period of what is currently subject to payment in the form of a financial equivalent. And it works well. We haven't registered a single... [[Talking in the O.R.]] You for discussion? We haven't registered, or at least I don't know anything about it, not a single complaint against this system. There weren't any... no one questioned that. So it's working out. Therefore, Mr. Senator, I do not think there is any need for us to make this change in the government submission that was adopted by the Sejm. This is the solution that I believe will work. If it were to turn out, because life has its dynamics, once in the future in implementation, when applying this provision, that it requires rethinking, then of course we can take it. But I don't think there are any arguments today that would argue that this has to be changed, that the six-month settlement period has to be shortened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u230	Thank you very much, Minister. Are there any more questions for the Minister? There isn't. Thank you very much. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. I'd like to speak with Senator Aleksander Pociej. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u231	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I thank you very much for these explanations, but I will stand by mine. There may be no record, but we lawyers teach a certain cut of the logical record. If it says that we are adopting a six-month settlement period in 2019, it means that there was going to be a change. If in the newsletter... And let me remind you that this is an agreement and this newsletter was followed by these demonstrations. Therefore, you were under pressure at the time, and I believe you made a promise. I believe these people, I believe these unionists, that they were promised at the time. And in the newsletter Once again, the logical dissection of the sentence It is said that the question of establishing the reference period for the following years will be the subject of further dialogue. There's no dialogue. And you'll be presenting here in a moment. I don't remember if it's going to be the minister or if it's going to be somebody else's breakup and dispersal of the union movement in the services. But you will come along with this and we will be voting on a law in which you want to introduce a uniform civil union alongside the industry. Together, I logically make all this up to the fact that the truth is told by the unionists that they were promised three months. I can't answer the Minister because I'm not a specialist, whether it's a six-month or a three-month settlement period, but I know that for the first time I'd see workers asking for a three-month settlement period in a situation where a six-month-old... that's worse for them, you said it might be. I don't think these are the people who broke out of the Christmas tree, I think they know the reality of the service, and that's why they're asking for it. Hence my amendment and the minority proposal. Besides, it's kind of a thing. Also after this meeting of the committee, I spoke with officers, with a representative of the trade unions of the Prison Service, and I was told that this service was the only one within the framework of this law that has no provisions concerning financial effect, actually has, but these are much, much lower amounts than those recorded for other services, that it is the only service that has not increased the security, the financial consequences of the entry into force of this Act. Minister, these are small amounts, because we are talking about about about about PLN 40,000 a year. Millions. Yeah, I'm sorry. Maybe 40 million zlotys. Today, Minister Wójcik from the Ministry of Justice was here, who boasted that the Prison Service had received 1.5 billion or more than 2 billion PLN for its actions. What happens, what prison looks like, what service there looks like, I probably don't have to tell the minister. And with this imposition on the Prison Service, I consider it a mistake not to secure the appropriate measures in this law. Therefore, I am now making an amendment on the amounts to be provided here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u232	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. You have submitted proposals of a legislative nature to Senator Alexander Pociej. The discussion is closed. Would the Minister like to respond to these conclusions? You're welcome, please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u233	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! This case, which you last raised, Senator Pociej, is that, firstly, the bill, together with the impact assessment, the government project, was consulted and agreed within the framework of the entire government and the Minister responsible for the Prison Service accepted these figures, these amounts and accepted them on a specific basis. He had a real basis for it. How was this calculated? I would like to remind you that in all services the financial consequences have been calculated in this way. The same was the case with the Prison Service that the assumed number of overtime worked per year was assumed on the basis of previous settlement periods which show the number of hours actually worked out, and this was multiplied, in terms of amounts, by the hourly rate resulting from the average monthly salary of the officers, in this case the Prison Service. The same was true of all other servants. In this way, this limit has been calculated for the Prison Service and other services covered by the introduction of a 100% overtime payment. In 2020 this calculation resulted in the amount of PLN 18 million 300 thousand and in the years 2019 to 2020 to PLN 180 million 500 thousand. Of course, it's a 10-year forecast, it can be corrected, because no one knows the future, but it's calculated on the basis of what's known, and so on the basis of how these hours have been worked out in the past. Therefore, the expectation that this amount will be increased is unjustified, because that would mean that, in the case of this particular law, when we calculate the financial consequences of the arrangements introduced by this law, we would add some more amounts to the budget of the services in general, probably for other purposes, and this is not a good way. This is unacceptable because the impact assessment must refer to the solutions contained in this specific legal act. So there's no reason to be alarmed, Senator. This is well calculated on the basis of the available data, based on the data we know, i.e. real, real data. This is the first case. I think there's really no reason to uphold this request because it's not justified. If this were not the case, the government, including the individual departments that are responsible for the individual services, would be interested to calculate it at the real level, i.e. higher. If there were grounds for that... 'Cause then you gotta pay off the overtime. But there's no basis for that here, so you couldn't have done it any other way. The second point, which relates to the content of the agreement between the social side represented by the trade unions and the management of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration. Please read in extenso what has been written in this agreement, and not rely on intentions, actual or alleged, either by any other entity or by individuals. There is no contradiction between the solutions proposed in the Act and the Agreement. I will repeat once again that step by step this agreement is being implemented and will be implemented to the end. Let us remind you that the first point of this agreement First in the chronological sense of its implementation This was an increase in the salaries of the officers as of 1 January 2019 and they were introduced at that level, which was recorded in the agreement. Of course, the annual prize will be paid in 2020, but this is met precisely. We are also precisely fulfilling the obligations associated with the abolition of this factor, which will entitle those who joined the statutory services we are discussing after 31 December 2012... So this is the new pension system. Today we have 2 pension systems in uniform services, including the old one, which is that officers are entitled to move to pension supplies after 15 years of service, of course with an unattractive basis for the pension dimension. Therefore, everyone tries to serve as long as he can, because for each year of service this basis increases by 2.6%. After 15 years, it's 40%. the basis of the dimension, so this pension is certainly not high, it is not attractive. Very few officers retire after 15 years of service. This second pension system, let's call it, including younger officers, those who, I repeat, will join or join the police, to other uniformed services after 31 December 2012, was introduced by the PO-PSL coalition in protest, under the opposition of officers, by the trade unions of uniformed services. But he was introduced. There are these 2 factors that entitle you to obtain pension rights for 25 years of service and 55 years of age. We're putting up with the other requirement. It's written down in the agreement. The Act introduces a significant change in the pension scheme After 25 years of service, he will be entitled to retirement without waiting for fifty-five years of age. It's good for the officers. The trade unions have called for it. We agreed with this because it is really important here that we have a time of service, which the official really does. Of course, we've talked about it, and we're predicting mechanisms. They are even partially enshrined in the agreement and have been discussed That are to create motivation to remain in the service for more than 25 years. The point is to make it cost-effective, also financially, after the time when an officer gets his pension rights. You told the senator that we were forced to demonstrate officers. I think that's what you said. I don't remember the demonstration, Senator. All I remember is the officers were on sick leave on L4. So, please, let's agree on what we're talking about, whether the officers were sick or if there was a demonstration. It was huge in Warsaw. I don't remember such a demonstration. Officers were on L4. In your day, they were demonstrating. At that time, they really were. Powerful demonstrations, that's true. No. A year ago. We actually had conversations when a lot of officers were on layoffs on L4. We have developed an agreement that has caused this problem, which is quite large in scale, to begin to shrink and disappear. We are now fulfilling these signed agreements. And that's it. I do not know what more should be said here to convince the senator and those who contest these good solutions, friendly, beneficial to the officers to accept them. I don't want to prolong this performance. I'm gonna ask you one more time about... October 2nd. Mr. Senator! I'm bringing it in again... [[Senator Aleksander Pociej plays a video recording on the tablet]] I don't know. You're referring to something that's on the screen. I see... October 2nd. All of Warsaw. This is not a discussion, Senator. You've already spoken. The problem... the context in which the conversations were held back then was quite a number of L4 redundancies. Everyone at the time said it was an officer's disease. If you call it a demonstration, it's your responsibility. If you're referring to what you've called, I understand. But it doesn't make sense anymore. Let's just leave it. Can I ad vocem? We don't have time for this anymore. There's no point. It is important that we regulate the law, so I am bringing on behalf of the government that the High Senate adopt the law in the version which was adopted by the Sejm, which is in line with the Government's submission and that it completes the agreements between the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration and the trade unions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u234	Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, it's 5:00 p.m., time for the W-W-W-W-W-W-W-W-W-W-W-W-W-W-W-W-W-W-W-W-W-W-W-W-W-W-W-W-W-W-W-W. Please rise. Let us pay tribute to the fighting Warsaw. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I would like to inform you that point twenty-five, i.e. the law on amending the Police Act, the Border Guard Act and the Prison Service Act, will be considered on Friday. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-six of the agenda: the Law on the system of compensation for energy-intensive sectors and sub-sectors. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1248 and the report of the Commission In print No 1248 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to submit a report to the committee. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u235	Dear Marshal! Dear Ministers, Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The Commission has assessed the Law on compensation for energy-intensive sectors and sub-sectors. The aim of the Act is to introduce provisions allowing for the granting of financial compensation to public aid to energy-intensive entrepreneurs whose profitability and competitiveness are seriously threatened by the rise in energy prices due to rising prices for greenhouse gas emission allowances. In a nutshell, we could define the purpose of the bill that we've been looking at. During the committee meeting, the bill was discussed by Minister Marcin Ociepa here. He presented the law substantively, comprehensively and answered the questions together with many incoming colleagues from the Ministry. The questions referred first of all to differences between... One of the senators had such doubts. It was a discrepancy between the emission factors adopted by the Act and the emission factors published by the National Emission Balance and Management Centre, in short by the KOBIZE. It turned out that the ranges, the emission parameters adopted in the Act are based on the findings of the European Commission. The Commission simply adopts a decade older This is how the ministry worker explained it. This is so negative that the assumed higher coefficients are several percentage points higher than the present ones. It's just that technology is moving forward rapidly. I have already told you many times that Polish energy has nothing to be ashamed of. It turns out that over 10 years, emissions have dropped by nearly 10%. We're talking 8%, from 88 to 80. It's important because since we've accepted this... With multi-billion-dollar amounts of energy operations, this few percent translates into very specific, measurable amounts. In any case, greenhouse gas emissions, in particular those calculated in relation to CO2 to carbon dioxide, are the main causes of energy consumption. This is particularly felt for the energy-intensive industry, because this industry sometimes needs more than 40% for its final production. the share of energy in costs. During the course of the questioning, there was also such an interesting fact that very energy-intensive plants, coal mines would not be able to benefit from these changes. Of course, this will put them in a rather uncomfortable situation, because if other energy-intensive production facilities are the beneficiaries of these changes on a given market, their advantage will be clearly outlined. The advantage of the still existing western energy-intensive industry over the Polish industry is that the industry is centrally subsidised there. The explanatory memorandum provides an example of Germany. The difference between our economies is that Poland has adopted a plan to subsidise small farms. As you know perfectly well, you have agreed to this. We subsidize small farms in terms of energy. The Germans adopted a slightly different pattern. Well, Germany is subsidising a large industry in terms of energy, assuming that a large industry gives employment and, above all, exports, which ultimately pays off small. Today's reality is that Poland has adopted one, and the other model, but with inclusions, because they are excluded, among others. The mines. In fact, it can be said that this is good, very good, both for the individuals we are helping and for the energy-intensive sector. It's still gotta be... As long as, in colloquial terms, we can afford it and as long as we have a guarantee that we are able to bear these costs, it is good, of course, that we bear them. Actually, the discussion was about the topics I was talking about. After very substantial, substantively good answers, the senators decided quite quickly that it was necessary to propose a positive opinion to the High House on this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u236	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you. That's me for the discussion. Two more minutes. May I? Excuse me? It's for discussion. Then we'll write down the senator. Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? The Minister is with us today... Marcin Ociepa. ...Marcin Ociepa. Minister? No, thank you, Marshal. Good. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. Minister, you're welcome to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u237	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The question is simple: does this law include the steel industry? The steel industry? Yeah, the steel industry. I'll tell you more or less why I'm asking you this. Well, by one of the people who contacted me, this situation was presented. The smelters produce pig iron, as you know, but besides the slag. This slag is used in the manufacture of special cement with increased parameters, and this cement is used e.g. for placing windmills at sea, because special cement must be used for this. And in order for these windmills at sea to work and possibly reduce our CO2 emissions, we need this slag. The question is, can this closed circle be torn apart in any way, and does this law include the steel industry?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u238	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u239	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Senator, Includes. In total, about 300 economic operators will benefit from this law, including the "or maybe above all" Polish steelworks. As far as sectors are concerned, all those eligible for support under the European Commission guidelines will benefit. These 890 million PLN will be allocated to all those groups of actors whose support is acceptable under the guidelines of the European Commission next and next year. There is no High Izbo in Poland, not a single economic entity that we would bypass of our own free will. No, all that we could only put into this system will be supported. And the cement industry, too? No. There is a group of industries that are simply excluded under these guidelines. There is often a question about mining, about the cement industry. Well, unfortunately, this is a matter of European Commission guidance.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u240	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? There isn't. Thank you, Minister. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I'll ask Senator Grzegorz Pekkis to speak. Yes, Senator? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u241	I will express a little doubt, which I already expressed during the committee meeting. As Poland, we have undergone energy transformation and ownership transformation. Large production plants, energy-intensive ones, this is the case in Poland It is also owned by foreign entities, not only those from the territory of the European Union, but also, as a result of the freedom of movement of property, entities from outside the eastern border, e.g. Ukrainian. One such entity operates in Częstochowa. For example, another such entity, with the owner of the Far East, operates in the largest coke plant in Zdzieszowice in Europe. It's Indian property. These are entities that consume little electricity to produce, but a lot of heat energy, which is obviously also covered by emission regulations. And there's no question about that. It is similar with the property of other entities which are very energy-intensive and which produce a very specific technical product. This product is still used for... For example, coke is used in Europe to manufacture automotive, specialized steels, which is done in Europe, for example. Austria. Austria is supplied with coke from the Radlina area, i.e. by Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa. But why am I talking about this? Because in Europe we are already practically dinosaurs. As long as our labour costs were low, as long as our energy costs were low, because we were not burdened with carbon charges, it was economically profitable. Now there's a new situation where we have an extra cost that just doesn't pay off. In some of these plants production stopped, literally stopped, because it just doesn't pay off. The western owner makes his profit here. What I'm trying to do is very important. Apart from making profits and working for unskilled workers, we are also dealing with pollution of the environment. That's what we talk about more and more. For example, there is a coke plant in Zdzieszowice. As I say, the largest in Europe The product by-product of which is coking benzol, a tar substance which is further, e.g. in Petrochemistry in Kedzierzyn-Koźl, it is processed into benzene and other highly desirable chemical solvents. There's only one problem, by the way. In this particular "Kędzierzyn-Koźl" emissions of benzene into air And this is a cancerous substance that can exceed 200 times the average annual norm within an hour. There is no hourly standard for this substance, but there is an average annual standard. This average annual standard is 5 micrograms per m3. In the mornings, this value can be measured at a laboratory measuring station of two hundred and a dozen micrograms. Is this the cause of unwellness or difficulty in awakening, especially children, as the parents in this housing estate claim? Is that what's causing the cancer to increase? Is this an absolute cancerogenic substance? We don't really know that, because these studies aren't conducted, these statistics aren't conducted. But we need to realise that the presence in our territory of such a heavy industry, a difficult industry, a much-needed world, is not just profit. However, as Poles, we must also realise that these profits can be transferred abroad. And now, at the end, let's ask what's left of it here in the country? There are no taxes left if they're paid. There was a time when the coke plant in Zdzieszowice paid taxes in Dąbrowa Górnicza. In other words, the inhabitants of Zdziszowice from CIT had nothing, although it was their poison. I am talking about this because apart from the economic aspect of the cost-effectiveness of one or the other owner, not necessarily national, we must also remember that as Poles we want to live in naturally healthy conditions more and more. Now we're building support systems. I asked at the committee's meeting what part of the energy-intensive industry is still on the side of Polish financial property. There is no research for this, we do not know what part of this industry is on the side of Polish financial property. We know for a fact that large petrochemical plants Orlen, Lotus This is Polish property. We know for sure that in the case of other large plants such as Grupa Azota, it is partly owned by Poland. But we also know that, to a large extent, it is Russian property. At the end of all this, the question will be, who... The question is open, I'm not prejudicing it. I'm talking about it because when we think about it, the Minister will mostly think about it. We have to keep that in mind. Specific money, big money goes to support this sector so that it works here. Well, if it's worth it, it'll work here. But now I have a question: what percentage and who do we support? Do we actually support at the end... Taxes absolutely, work It's part of it. How do I know it's part of it? Because I know that Poles no longer work in the most toxic places. I will not tell you what nation works, but it effectively eliminated Poles. Poles... I know exactly what percentage this is in these bets, so we can discuss, Mr. Senator, outside the room. The question of how much money spent from the Polish budget will remain in the country is an open question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u242	Senator Aleksander Pociej. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u243	Very briefly. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I fully share... He even stopped me before Senator Pekkis left because he was very curious. Well, that's very interesting. I'd just like to straighten out two cases. The same in Orlen and Lotus is foreign capital, through funds. Yeah, he's there too. Besides, we should not talk about the fact that someone, Poles, eliminated us. It just so happens that the richer we are... It's like the Englishman said that the Poles eliminated us from working in Heathrow, Heathrow Airport. We didn't really eliminate them, they just work somewhere else, and we went into a loophole. It's the same here, nobody really bit anyone, it's just a loophole. We're either working in the West, or we've gone to a better job here, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u244	Thank you very much, Senator. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-seven of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on oil stocks, oil products, natural gas and the rules for dealing with situations of threat to the fuel security of the state and disturbances on the oil market and the Energy Law. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1253, and the report of the Commission − in print No 1253 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Wojciech Piecha, to submit a report to the committee. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u245	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Report of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the Law adopted by the Sejm on 19 July on the amendment of the Law on oil stocks, oil products and natural gas and on the principles of dealing with situations of threat to the fuel security of the state and disturbances on the oil market and the Energy Law The purpose of the bill. The main objective of the Act is to address the situation of oil and fuel storage capacity shortages and to ensure an effective guarantee of the continuity of supply of oil and fuel to the domestic market from state intervention stocks in crisis situations. The changes made respond to the shortage of storage capacity signalled by entrepreneurs and the Material Reserve Agency due to a sharp increase in fuel turnover. In addition, the Act implements in the Polish legal order the provisions of Commission Implementing Directive 2018/1581 of 19 October 2018 amending the Directive as regards the methods for calculating the mandatory quantities of stocks. The deadline for implementation is 19 October 2019. In order to ensure that all market participants have access to the storage capacity necessary for the proper functioning of the fuel market, the Act introduces a provision allowing for the temporary use of approximately 1.5 million m3 of the underground storage capacity of the oil and fuel storage unit, which currently has a reduced efficiency of embossing intervention stocks of oil and fuels. This will allow these capacities to be used during the process of upgrading this warehouse, as well as to meet the current needs of the oil and fuel market. In addition, the major amendments introduced by the Act are intended to confer on the President of the Material Reserves Agency powers allowing temporary placement of agency stocks in capacity which do not meet the availability requirements within 90 days; to amend the formula for calculating the net average daily imports of oil equivalent; to regulate the procedure for notifying the President of the Material Reserves Agency of an accident resulting in a reduction in the technical parameters of the storage facility or transmission systems; to introduce a solution to account for the fuel yield rate that can be achieved in all technologically integrated installations within one capital group; to postpone the deadline for adjusting the quantities of oil intervention stocks and fuels to the changing annual net average daily imports of oil. The Act raises no legislative objections and the committee requests that the Act be adopted without amendments. Thank you. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u246	Wait a minute, wait a minute. Excuse me. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Are there any such questions? No. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Energy has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. We have Minister Adam Gawada with us today. Welcome very cordially to the Minister, our Senator. Minister, do you wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Dear Marshal, the rapporteur has made a very comprehensive presentation of the bill. If there are any questions, I'm at your disposal. Good. Let me ask you a question. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. And now my question to you is, would anyone like to ask Minister Gazwada about the bill? You can't see... There it is, there it is. Senator Piech? Yeah, just one question. Good. Allow the Minister to approach the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u247	I have only one question related to the emergency supply of oil from the eastern direction during the April-June 2019 period. Was this the reason for these changes and allowing this tank to be used?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u248	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u249	Dear Marshal, thank you very much. Mr. Senator, High Izbo, no, that's not the reason. This is due to the fact that it has significantly increased, let's call it, the legal trade in oil and fuels, so we have been seeing quite dynamic interest growth in this area for several years. There is therefore a need for additional storage of these fuels. This underground tank has a real capacity of 6 million m3 and is currently being used 4.5 million. This law will allow you to flexibly, smoothly adjust these parameters. As the senator has already pointed out, in the case of oil it will be 150 days from 1 January 2024, 90 days from 1 January 2029 and 90 days from 1 January 2024 for fuels. That issue you're talking about is not the cause, it's the case that's regulated in this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u250	Thank you, Minister. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have come forward for discussion. I therefore close the discussion. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-eighth of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on investment in the scope of the regasification terminal of liquefied natural gas in Świnoujście. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1254, and the report of the Commission In print No 1254 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Wiesław Dobkowski, to submit a report to the committee. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u251	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! On behalf of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, I have the honour to present an opinion on the Act amending the Act on Investments in the Regasification Terminal of liquefied natural gas in Świnoujście Print No 1254. The aim of the Act is to improve the process of building a key distribution infrastructure and to connect electricity generators to ensure safe delivery of gas fuel from the LNG terminal in Świnoujście to the widest possible group of final customers, including households. To this end, the so-called catalogue was extended. investments accompanying the construction of the LNG terminal in Świnoujście, whose task is to ensure the efficient operation of the terminal. Among the investments accompanying the construction of the terminal, the opinion of the Act includes: construction of a gas pipeline of high pressure relations Konopka Ełk Mrągowo along with the infrastructure necessary for its operation in the Mazowieckie, Podlaskie and Warmia-Mazury voivodships; construction of a gas pipeline of high pressure relations between Byts Chojnice together with such infrastructure accompanying the Kujawsko-Pomorskie and Pomorskie voivodships; construction of the same pipeline Of course, they may have different diameters, but the point is that they are high-pressure pipelines. Dworszko relations Chojnice in Kujawsko-Pomorskie and Pomorskie voivodships; construction of the Kolnik relations pipeline Elbląg in Pomorskie and Warmińsko-Mazurskie voivodships; construction of the Tulce relations pipeline Nekla in Wielkopolska voivodship; construction of Witkowo relations pipeline Września, it is also in the territory of the Wielkopolska Voivodship; construction of a gas pipeline of high pressure relations Łyszkowice Cocks, cocks, cocks, cocks, Brzeziny, that's in the Łódź Voivodeship; construction of a pipeline on the Kalisz section Sieradz Meszcze, which is in the area of Łódź and Wielkopolska voivodships; the construction of a high pressure pipeline which is a connection to the system which is currently, the transmission system of OGP Gaz-System SA in Zambrowa, is in the area of Mazowieckie, Podlaskie and Warmia-Mazurski voivodships; the construction of gas connections to Ciegrownia In addition, the Act clarifies that the obligation to pay compensation in the event of the execution of these accompanying investments will be imposed on the investor. The Act will enter into force 14 days after its publication. Ms Marshal, High Senate, at the meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Minister Adam Gawada presented this bill. There were questions and explanations, and there was a presentation of the projects of these pipelines I was talking about. There was a detailed description of how many kilometers these particular sections would have. In fact, after summing up the length of these episodes, 577 km, and the individual sections... I'm not going to give them lengths right now, because these are different sections, even there are sections that are over 100 km long. Mrs Marshal, High Senate, during the meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, I tabled one amendment. This is a legislative amendment. It aims to clarify the definition of the infrastructure necessary to operate itself. She refers to all cases of this concept in the current wording of the Act and simply in the relevant article, paragraph and point, the words and paragraph 3 and paragraph 3 are replaced by the words "and points 3 and 5.'. This amendment was supported by the Minister. In the vote at the committee meeting, the adoption of both the amendment and the entire law was supported unanimously. Therefore, on behalf of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, I would like to ask the High Senate to approve the attached bill together with the amendment adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u252	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of you like to ask such a question? No. Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Energy has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Yes. You're welcome, Minister. Minister Adam Gawada.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u253	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Senator, the rapporteur, has made a very thorough presentation of this law. I just, on the occasion, would like to stress In the end, Mr. Senator mentioned it. That it is more than 577 km of built distribution lines, which in the future in a capital way will ensure the supply of this gas wherever at the moment we are dealing with such, say, white stains. But I would like to stress here that exactly a week ago, from Thursday to Friday, I had the honour to participate in a very important event in Świnoujście in the gasport, where a very large tanker from the United States arrived, the first in a long-term contract, which will provide supplies, gas safety and fuel safety of Poland. This investment fits very well into this gas supply project, the gas supply wherever we are still dealing with the lack of this fuel today. That is why I think that this is also a very important law for the future, a law that is part of this large Baltic Pipe project, and that is what I would like to stress here, because everything that the rapporteur has said is really exhausting the issues related to the act itself. So that this broader aspect I would like to emphasise very strongly here. Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u254	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute's query to the Minister on this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of you have signed up for this discussion. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-nine of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1255, and the committee's report In print No 1255 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Krystian Probier, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u255	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Minister, at the same time, Senator! Well, I have the honour to present the findings of the committee's meeting on the Law amending the Law on Liquid Biocomponents and biofuels and some other laws. What is this bill I'm presenting talking about? This law speaks of biocomponents, fuels, hydrogen and electricity used in transport. What are these biocomponents? Let me briefly remind you: bioethanol, bioethanol, esters, vegetable oil and others, hydrogen produced from vegetable matter intended for the production of fuels excluding other renewable fuels. What kind of fuels does this bill apply to? All except light and heavy fuel oil. I would also like to explain what co-hydrogenation is. This is the simultaneous hydrotreatment of fractions from crude oil and biomass. As a result, bioliquid hydrocarbons and biopropane are produced in a mixture with hydrocarbons from the processing of crude oil. Hydrocarbons, we all remember that, are chemicals containing only carbon and hydrogen in their structure, the basic component of crude oil. What is the purpose of this law, and what is the subject of this law? The purpose of this law is to enable entities obliged to implement the National Indicator Objective, the NCW, to fulfil the responsibilities associated with this objective. What in turn is this National Indicator Objective? This is the minimum share of other renewable fuels and biocomponents contained in fuels used in all modes of transport. What are the figures of this National Indicator Objective? It is therefore concluded that the share of these fuels should be 8,7% in 2021. , in 2022 8.8% , in 2023 8.9% , while in 2024 9.1%. As regards the share of biocomponents in petrol, it should be a minimum of 3.2% between 2020 and 2022. , and in diesel in 2020 4.9% , in 2021 • 4.95% , and in 2022, 5.5%. These values, the shares of biofuels are calculated according to the fuel calorific value, i.e. the amount of energy allocated by burning a kilogram mass. It's about energy output. For gaseous fuels, this is calculated in kilojoules or megajoules per cubic metre. Biocomponents placed on the market should meet quality requirements. This should be confirmed by a quality certificate issued by accredited certification bodies. The law applies to fuels produced in the country as well as to fuels imported to us. As for the discussion at the committee meeting, it was not very lively. There have been some legislative amendments which have not been adopted or withdrawn. I would also like to point out that the law should enter into force on 1 January 2020. Certain exceptions in this law allow certain provisions to enter later. I'm asking the High Senate to adopt a bill without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u256	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of you like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Energy has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Minister? Mrs. Marshal, Mr. Senator, Professor so thorough and comprehensively presented the bill that there is no need. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No. 1270 and the report of the committee In print No 1270 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to submit a report to the committee. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u257	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! The Act on Renewable Energy Sources, adopted by the Committee on Economic Affairs, contains a number of changes in ordering which, together with the development of the market for renewable energy sources in Poland, were systematically reported as comments to the Ministry of Energy. The Ministry of Energy undertook to include these comments in the form of amendments at the earliest opportunity. The fact is that it lasted a few months, but this is to the benefit of the changes made to the text. At the same time, there is quite a novelty in the bill. It consists in enabling the organisation of energy cooperatives, but these cooperatives because of the restrictions on their formation... In fact, this applies to rural environments and towns, urban-rural municipalities. This does not apply to large agglomerations. These restrictions were also the reason for certain calls, especially for urban environments, associations which wrote letters to senators and who noticed the possibility of such cooperatives operating within the framework of, for example, the housing cooperatives would be able to pursue the objectives of such cooperatives. The restrictions laid down in the Act are basically such a cooperative, as I said before, in the villages as well as in urban-rural municipalities. It's basically here, for example. the number of persons who form the cooperative. There's a limit to a thousand, if I remember correctly. Anyway, without getting into the details, because in so much detail we did not analyse this at the committee meeting, the bill was referred in a way that was generally accepted, and the economic committee proposes to the High House a positive opinion on the bill submitted.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u258	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of you like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Energy has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? No. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Are any of your senators... Senator Leszek Czarnobaj and Senator... ...A stalker. ...A stalker. I'm sorry. There you go. I'd like to invite the Minister. And Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u259	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! One brief question concerning the restrictions on rural areas and urban and rural communities related to cooperatives. What's at stake... Why didn't you agree or agree to this kind of cooperative in urban areas, for example in the case of housing cooperatives? 'Cause if it wasn't the whole thing, it was possible to propose a directional record when it came to the city. Why didn't you put it in the bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u260	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u261	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. Senator! This is a fundamental issue. The cities have a completely different infrastructure, i.e. building density, network, underground cables or own stable power supply, network heat or natural gas, quite popular and used in subsequent areas. Rural areas do not have this, but have renewable energy resources and a place to develop them. Well, given... I think that both this aspect and energy problems in rural areas, rural and urban-rural communities are widely known. In our view, in order to start solving these problems and at the same time to meet the commitments made to the European Union in the field of renewable energy sources, renewable energy needs to be developed primarily where there are the largest resources, i.e. in rural areas. In order to implement these plans, an instrument is needed for rural areas which today bear the same energy costs and sometimes even higher than cities, and in return they receive a much worse service in terms of energy supply. Rural areas are a natural area for the development of distributed energy and what is important The sustainable development of this energy. Hence our decision to introduce an instrument in the form of energy cooperatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u262	Thank you very much. You're Senator Marian the Sheriff. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u263	Thank you very much. Minister, the law extends the scope of entities that may have been prosumers, small companies, as well as, I think, local governments. In this connection, I have a question: can an association which conducts an economic activity also be a prosumer under this law? That's one thing. And secondly, do local governments that have the number of organizational units on their territory... Can any organizational unit be a prosumer, or is the municipality generally understood as a prosumer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u264	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u265	About the question about the association... Association engaged in economic activities. If it is conducted on the training of the commune, then yes. And as to whether the local government units... If they're setting up municipal establishments that can apply for it, then yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u266	Thank you. Senator Czarnobaj. And Mr. Senator the Messenger, too. - Yeah? - Mm-hmm.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u267	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! In the case of the second question that you asked the Senator the Spokesperson, could we ask for an answer in writing? Well, I understand the Minister may have doubts. Could we get an answer like that? Because it's an important thing. What units are to be appointed? Whether with a 100 percent share of the commune, or... It's really about interpretation, it's about you writing us who can, who can't, who can't. Well, it's gonna be clear. We ask that the Minister be gracious. To answer us. And second question, related to the first. Minister, I don't remember anymore, but the Minister may know that. Are the cooperatives... Because this is a very common form, if I remember correctly, among others. in Germany. I wasn't interested in it, but some of the information's knocking on my door somewhere. Is there a restriction only to rural and urban areas due to the source of energy? Because if we're talking about the source of energy in the form of the sun, then the sun is the source here and here, so I'm not convinced of what's going on in this chapter. Well, if there's so much money for support, I understand the argument to start where there are the most renewable energy opportunities, but the fact that there is another structure or there are other sources is not convincing. Therefore, I would ask for an answer, whether in the countries in which these energy cooperatives are located, it is also limited to urban and rural areas. Well, I'm sure that comes from experience. If you do not know the Minister's answer, it could also be given in writing. And there's another thing about it. I'm gonna take that under advisement again. Wouldn't it be worth considering that if it wasn't in this bill, it would be in some future correction, once it's in operation... Because the cities are different, in the city of 400 thousand or million and in the city of 40 thousand there are different conditions. Perhaps it would be worth considering in the future, Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u268	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u269	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I'll start with the last one. We'll see when this bill just goes off, how it's gonna work. In our opinion, it should work quite quickly, but we'll evaluate it together. I think in the future... This may not be so much a revision of the law as it is possible to extend its functioning. It may be an initiative of the Senate or the Sejm, I do not see here, on these issues, a problem. As for the application of such solutions in other countries, I know only a few examples of such places, where it is similar, where a similar solution works. I don't have full knowledge, so let me ask the department responsible for renewable energy sources to carry out such an analysis. I think if the senator gets this in writing a little later on, it'll be okay, too. And as for the first question, it's such an exact catalogue of those entitled... Well, we'll clarify that, too. It's hard to say exactly, enumeratively... Yeah, yeah. Mr. Senators, I'd like to make that clear right now. If you'll excuse me, I think we'll have that answer in writing as well.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u270	Okay, thank you very much. Mr. Senator Spokesperson.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u271	Thank you very much. Minister, I am pleased that we are accelerating the development of distributed energy. I remember these debates in previous amendments to the Renewable Energy Act, when this narrative, by Minister Tobiszowski, your predecessor, was somewhat different. And I have a question for you about that. This law is also intended to lay the foundations for accelerating the production of renewable energy in Poland. In the autumn, there is to be an additional auction for large amounts of renewable energy, and I have this question: do we already have enough projects that could be as if guaranteeing that these options, which will be, will be filled with the production of this energy? Because I think we're hiccups with this 2016 anti-window bill. We have stopped the development of this energy, and now we are trying to accelerate it, but it may not be enough projects that will ensure the production of this energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u272	Thank you very much. Are there any more... There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u273	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! From the information I have, it appears that this would have to be aggregated, taken as a whole. I know that investors have a statutory maximum time to build an installation, and I know that there are quite a lot of projects like this, but it's hard for me to say it out of my mind right now. I suppose even in the department, we don't have it figured out, because these projects are being submitted, they're in the process of preparation. So it's hard for me to relate right now. I don't even know if I'll be able to answer that question in writing anytime soon. I'm sure if the senator will allow it, it's all the ones we've already aggregated and somehow accounted for... Well, in this respect, I can answer in writing. However, we have simply adopted a slightly different model related to the development of renewable energy sources. If we take into account data concerning e.g. Photovoltaics share here is the data developed by the Energy Market Agency Akcyjna Spółka Akcyjna, we will see that this share grows to us, year by year, by 218.6%. That's the dynamic index, it's pretty big. We also take into account the new projects we are introducing. I think that's when we're going to achieve that goal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u274	Thank you very much. Here you go, Senator Sheriff.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u275	Thank you very much. That's the last question. Is there another amendment to the Renewable Energy Act planned? Because there's so much caucus or caucus information about it. That's the first question. And are there any subsidies planned under this law, possibly amended, any support for energy storage? We see what the trend is, e.g. Germany is absolutely no longer subsidising renewable energy production, but very heavily subsidising the storage of renewable energy. Is there any chance there's gonna be something like this? Will there be similar solutions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u276	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u277	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. In fact, the senator asked a question and answered it. Well, that's the way it is. If the technique, if life, and it is dynamic, brings new solutions and if such technological solutions are feasible, using the network, in our circumstances And such solutions in the future will certainly be of great use to use stored energy during periods of RES shortage, and when there is a surplus, to store such energy. We will certainly be considering new opportunities for support, new instruments. Today we believe that the catalogue of support and instruments that we have proposed in this law are good and tailored to the current needs. But of course it's not a closed topic. Please note how many times this type of law The Energy Act and the Renewable Energy Act have been updated not only over the last few years, but over a dozen years. Well, it's just that this is an area that's developing quite dynamically, and it also needs to take into account all our geographical conditions. Laws, or regulations, must keep up with what's going on in the world. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u278	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to give a written answer to a question asked by Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u279	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! Recently, we have talked a lot in this House about renewable energy. I have often spoken, and therefore maybe today I will not speak about renewable energy and its development, given that the increase in awareness of the Polish society is authentically noticeable, awareness not only of such a password, i.e. that it is pure energy, that it is energy, which absolutely needs to be replaced by everything. It is also noted in public media that such a tendency to take serious energy issues seriously. Because this cannot be treated in one sentence and can be determined in one sentence about the future of where we will draw this energy from and how we will use our current fuel resources. But back to what I'd like to thank you for... Now I went out to thank the Ministry for one of the amendments, for the amendment that extended the catalogue of students in directions that would be a little privileged. That is, students in the field of energy will be privileged by releasing... It is about having a certificate for the installation of renewable energy sources. In this catalogue there were already other directions, but in this very act, in one of these amendments energyists were given the right to take care of energy. And thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u280	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the first agenda: the Act amending the Law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of certain workers employed in medicinal entities. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1263, and the report of the Commission In print No 1263 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Dorota Czudowska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u281	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Health Commission, an amendment to the Act of 8 June 2017 on how to determine the lowest basic salary of certain workers employed in medicinal entities. The law is simple and it can actually be said that it is a gift for workers employed in medical entities who earn the least. Why a present? Therefore, according to the Act of 2017 until the end of 2019 there was a rate of PLN 3000 900 on the basis of which, according to the tariff operator, this lowest wage was calculated according to an appropriate coefficient. This rate is for today and was to be up to 31 December 2019, as I said, PLN 3 000 900, and by amending this law we increase this amount to PLN 4 000 200. Well, there was a discussion about where to get the money for it. The environment of the doctors' chambers... They said it wasn't consulted. But these charges... I mean. the questions were answered mainly by the Minister. This year several billion zlotys more went to the National Health Fund and through it to the healthcare providers, so directors should deal with these amounts, especially since the Minister stressed it and the debaters also referred to the lowest salary. Some have long had much, much higher wages than what we are talking about. This applies to doctors, but also to many nurses, especially those employed in large cities. And in the case of those who earn the least, this amount of PLN 4 000 200, after agreement with the trade unions of the work establishment or employees' representatives, may be paid as early as 1 July. For the lowest group I'll just remind you. For the least-earned primary workers other than medical professionals, this factor shall be 0,58. So it will be higher than the minimum wage in Poland. The senators unanimously adopted the law without amendments and I recommend the same to the High House.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u282	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Well, thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Welcome to Minister Janusz Cieszyński. No, thank you. Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. Please, Minister, come here. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u283	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I'm sorry I didn't ask those questions at the committee meeting, but you're always smarter after a while. And that's why I decided to ask a few questions today. Minister, if you don't mind, I'll ask the three short questions right away. Minister, the first question concerns the introduction of a formula for raising the least earners, in general. Have you made any simulations of the cost of this project? Do you have such information that together in Polish hospitals it will be such and such a amount? That's the first question. Second question. Minister, once again about this consultation. Were there any consultations with the community of people managing Polish hospitals? And if they weren't there, why? If I may have a brief answer... And the third question. Many discussions, Minister, were also on side issues at the committee that the senator was talking about. It's a subject that's related to the subject, but a little side-by-side, it's a subject of debt. Could the Minister state the amount of debt... excuse me, increase the amount of debt in 2018? I have that amount. I just want to verify it. I can tell you how much I have: it's 1 billion zloty. Could the Minister confirm or deny that Polish hospitals have indebted to PLN 1 billion in 2018? That's the three questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u284	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u285	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! With regard to these 3 questions, all the information on the costs of implementing this legislation, but also on everyone else, are included in the impact assessment. This is a government project, and any government submission must, in accordance with the Council of Ministers' Rules of Procedure, such a document This is a specified form. To include and he has been attached to this draft law. It is worth pointing out in this case that, as regards the costs involved, they are covered by the medical entities which employ these workers, with one exception, except for budgetary units which do not have a contract with the National Health Fund. In this case, they are covered by the limit of the Minister of Health. These are the amounts of PLN 20 and 30 million in the current year. With regard to the amounts relating to medicinal entities that have a contract with the National Health Fund, it is the measures that need to be remembered, as the Senator rapporteur said, that this applies to a very diverse level. It's a variation. both in terms of positions within the entity and in terms of location of the entity on the map of Poland. Well, I do not hide that depending on the region in which the entity operates, these salaries also differ. But we are transferring very important amounts just to increase the value of benefits in the National Health Fund. At the beginning of this year it was the amount of PLN 650 million - so these valuations increased. It is also worth recalling that the measures have in particular gone to these smaller entities, hospitals with the first and second degrees of reference. And these measures are sufficient to cover the effects of the law. As regards consultations, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers, the project was directed directly to the meeting of the Standing Committee of the Council of Ministers, without consulting both the social side and the representation, i.e. trade unions, as well as business organisations, including those which, I understand, the senator called here, representing the managers of medicinal products. We were... This is, of course, a special situation, but we were willing to submit such a project primarily because we cared about the time, i.e. that this money should reach tens, hundreds, probably even thousands of the worst paid health care workers as soon as possible. And I hope that the senator will agree with me that, of course, consulting is an extremely important issue, but in this case we had to consider these two good things. Knowing that we are guaranteeing an increase in funds that will cover additional expenses of medicinal products, we have allowed ourselves, of course, under the existing rules, to change this regulation in this way. As far as debt increases are concerned, I must apologize to the senator very much, but this is just as the senator rightly pointed out, which is completely outside the scope of this bill. Therefore, it is difficult for me to be absolutely sure about the amounts that the senator is giving. I therefore hope that you will accept the explanations given in writing, because in this way we will be able to take full responsibility for this. Otherwise... You know these are very important things. You can't make a mistake here, not even for a dollar.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u286	Thank you very much, Minister. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you very much. Thank you. I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to provide a written answer to the question asked by Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Konstanty Radziwiłł.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u287	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! This law, which is relatively simple and, in my opinion, clearly beneficial to many people, of course deserves support. Problems... This is the second amendment of the 2017 Act, which for the first time introduced a regulation establishing minimum salaries in different groups of employees - first only medical, then non-medical, but employed in the basic activity, i.e., close to patients. This is due to the belief that those who work in the health care sector in white aprons − so can be said in simplistic terms, although maybe not everyone works in white aprons, but this is how the vast majority of those covered by this law can be taken into account - have limited opportunities for competitive employment in another sector, elsewhere. And that is why this regulation, that is to say, the fixing of such a minimum wage, is possible from the point of view of the Constitution. It should also be said that the problem in health care today is pay not so many doctors and nurses - because in the case of these 2 professional groups, you can say, they are already at a very decent level today - as many other workers. They definitely can't keep up. This applies to both medical professionals and primary workers who do not perform medical professions. And in fact, this bill is mostly dedicated to them. It seems that if you can even talk about the problem of low wages in the health care system, it is especially visible in these groups except nurses and doctors. So, alongside such a general problem of low wages, which is already debatable for some, we have a very clear problem of disparities. And that's actually the problem that I'm going to say is the bill. Undoubtedly, there is, let's say, a fairly common situation that, when additional measures appear in a hospital, these stronger professional groups consume them in a disproportionate way compared to the others. This regulation, as it were, forces the managers of medicinal products a little bit to avoid forgetting those workers who are simply lagging behind. That's why this bill is so important. At the same time, it is worth noting in the context of the financial security of hospitals, as well as the debt mentioned here, that we are dealing with a management situation, which is simply very different in different entities. If we look globally at the amount of about PLN 12 or 13 billion that hospitals in Poland are indebted to, then from a purely business point of view, when about PLN 40 billion is the turnover of these hospitals, this is not the debt that I would say looks so dramatic. In some hospitals, it really, you can say, exceeds a certain limit, but debt at a level of 1/4 of turnover is not a debt that generally threatens the system. What's my thesis? There are indeed hospitals that are in big trouble. Well, my point is that, alongside the various problems that health care institutions face, there is also a problem of quality management. And that's just what you have to say. It must be said that in some institutions there is debt, which is not so much due to underfinancing, and in any case not only to underfinancing the healing activity, but, unfortunately, to a large extent, to various types of management errors. And it seems that there is no other way to look at the issue of wages, where the dignity of those employees who are still underfunded... This is one of those elements, one of the management errors. However, there seems to be a limited need for state intervention here. That is what this law is all about, including the regulation we are considering at the moment. At the same time, I would like to point out very strongly that this amendment, as well as the law itself, is not a regulation of wages, but a regulation of minimum basic wage levels, and therefore primarily concerns those who in their professional groups are simply harmed, whose wages have been set at an unworthy level. It could therefore be said of this law that it is, in fact, a law that restores the dignity of a large number of health workers and is therefore worthy of support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u288	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u289	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear guests! I would like to say here that, as a political environment of the Civic Platform, we will support this law, because every element concerning health professionals, as Minister Radziwiłł said, is the lowest earner is worthy of support. I don't think there's a dispute here. I think everyone in this room understands that the situation in health care, the situation in individual hospitals... Just as you diagnosed the Minister, the hardest-earned earner is the hardest way to get through, in their case, the hardest thing to do is to raise wages, there's no doubt. For this reason, we will support this proposal. However, I would like to highlight a few points in the discussion. This is indeed not a wage regulation, as Senator Radziwiłł said, but a regulation that has an impact on what is involved in increasing the cost of functioning of individual medicinal products. Absolutely. For some more, for others less, but certainly has. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister will send you the exact data, but from the data I downloaded, it appears that in 2015 and... At that time, we were indebted to hospitals, at a rate of PLN 500 million per year, on a national scale. I don't break it into short- and long-term debt. Of course, 12 billion PLN, as the Minister said, is not yet something that threatens to collapse the whole system, but it certainly does not improve its functioning. That's one thing. Second, it's dangerous that it's increasing. I'm talking about trends. The amount of commitments due. This is already a phenomenon. According to the data for 2018, this is the result of the information that I hold, we are in debt as hospitals twice as fast, i.e. on a national scale it is about 1 billion. Therefore, this is already a trend. Minister in the speech or senator Because I can't remember anymore, he said that the amount for the increase is included in contracts and in the amounts for the specific tasks performed by the medical entities. I would like to tell you that there may be entities in the territory of the Republic which will consume this without increasing the debt, but generally, county hospitals, Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, will be facing problems. They must be part of the management process, as Senator Radziwiłł said, but in general, it is a matter of these entities for various reasons. I don't want to open a discussion about this anymore. They do not have at their disposal such means as to ensure... that the operating costs of these entities are covered. This increase of PLN 1 billion is worrying. And with this decision, we're kind of increasing the load. As my colleague used to say, I'm going to bet dollars against nuts that 2019 is going to be even worse when it comes to debt, for example because of this kind of decision. So it's like there's two levels here. One: the decision is right, because it is hardest for those who work in these positions to break through when it comes to raising wages. And two: this will be at the expense of increasing debt, debt in general in all hospitals. The important thing that Minister Radziwiłł has also raised here is that we may have come to such a situation today in health care, that, in my opinion, although I may be mistaken, there are too many disparities in terms of the earnings of the best earners and the worst earners in a given entity. And you have to know that one of the elements of social unrest, bad atmosphere, is too big a difference. This is what health protection is about today. There's a group. I don't want to say small or large, but significant, with very good earnings, and there is a large group with the lowest incomes. And this discrepancy....that's what I got in county hospitals. Unfortunately, it has increased. This is a worrying phenomenon. Therefore, Senator Grodzki and I are making an amendment, which boils down to what is related to the cost of increases or regulations in individual entities to compensate from the state budget, i.e. to increase the budget of the NFZ, so that medicinal entities can compensate for these tasks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u290	I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would also like to inform you that Senator Leszek Czarnobaj and Senator Tomasz Grodzki have submitted legislative proposals in writing. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? No. Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Health Commission to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the second agenda: the Act amending certain other laws in connection with the implementation of solutions in the area of eHealth. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1264, and the report of the Commission In print No 1264 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Konstanty Radziwiłł, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u291	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! I have the honour and honour to present the opinion of the Health Commission to the Act amending certain laws in connection with the implementation of solutions in the area of eHealth. In short, after a brief discussion, the committee supported the bill and recommends that the High Senate adopt the law without any amendments. As far as this bill is concerned, it's a pretty extensive, complicated bill. As we read in the title, it is a law devoted to the implementation of various IT solutions in the health sector. This law amends a whole series of laws, several laws are amended. In order to signal you the elements that it deals with, I will list them in order. Firstly, it is important to mention the introduction of long-awaited facilitations in the field of prescription, in particular electronic prescriptions, as well as the level of refund of medicinal products and medical devices, which are prescribed on these prescriptions. This will be done by extending the catalogue of people who may be beneficiaries of the so-called. prescription pro familiae, i.e. issued for people closest to the doctor. As expected by the medical community, the catalogue of these people has been extended by people such as others. In-laws, brother-in-laws or siblings' children. This is the right solution that simply responds to a certain practice of treating your own families by doctors. In addition, electronic prescription medications used in chronic diseases can be prescribed for the whole year, but with such a condition that, in a simple way, these prescriptions will be carried out on instalments. I mean, if it takes some time, then this period remaining until one year after the prescription will have an appropriate effect on the reduction in the amount of medicine that may be given in the pharmacy. In a sort of way. Automatic e-prescription will be drawn from the system information about additional patient privileges. This is about patients who have powers e.g. Invalidities of war or military, well-deserved honorary blood donors and others At the same time, something that has been a problem for a long time, very much hindering the functioning of doctors, at least to a certain extent... It's about automatic downloading information about the level of drug refund. This is a thing, you can say, for technical laymen, but very significantly improving the way in which they operate, facilitating the mechanism for the issuing of prescriptions by persons authorized to do so. Secondly, the Act introduces the possibility for medical assistants to be authorised by doctors, dentists, to issue electronic prescriptions and electronic referrals on their behalf. So far, in accordance with the provisions recently adopted relatively, at the end of last year, these assistants were authorised to issue paper prescriptions, and at the moment this will also apply to electronic prescriptions. Another functionality that will exist... It is about introducing new functionalities of the patient's online account, so-called. IKP, while at the same time putting out the existing ZIP, Integrated Patient Informant. These new functionalities will be e.g. such as the possibility of applying for a European Health Insurance Card, as well as the submission of a declaration to a doctor, nurse or midwife of primary health care. Another issue regulated by this Act is the extension of the scope of the public mobile application to ICT systems, i.e., more specifically, the confirmation of the patient's identity in medical facilities by means of an identity card which is on the mobile phone. Another point: to extend the catalogue of persons entitled to issue prescriptions under a free medicine program for seniors with doctors operating in outpatient specialist care, as well as doctors who discharge patients from the hospital. Here, at the same time, there is such a reservation, an important reservation, it can be said, that doctors or hospital doctors will be entitled to issue such prescriptions, provided that information on the medicines used in this patient is taken from the IT platform. It is simply about ensuring coordination of treatment and, above all, avoiding dangerous drug interactions. Another point, another regulation, which is included in this Act, is related to the provision of electronic medical records and data processed in medical records. These are new technical solutions to facilitate access to electronic medical records, with the consent of the person concerned, the patient or the caregivers of the patient. An interesting solution, which is provided for in the Act, is to extend the catalogue of entities acting as points confirming a trusted profile, this state profile trusted, to the National Health Fund institutions. The NFZ will be able to give the right to confirm this profile to providers who provide basic healthcare services. To put it simply, your doctor or primary healthcare facility will be able to get this profile trusted. Finally, the fact that this law also provides for the implementation of requirements imposed by European Union rules on cross-border prescription services. So far Poland has been one of those countries where these cross-border recipes could only be paper prescriptions, and at the moment, through appropriate regulations, we are introducing the possibility of issuing cross-border prescriptions in electronic form. Despite its extensive complexity, this law affects very many aspects on the part of citizens themselves, patients as well as medical staff. It did not arouse, as I said, some extraordinary discussion. She also received overwhelming support at the level of the Sejm. Only 1 Member was against, 2 abstentions. Therefore, following what I said at the very beginning, the Health Commission proposes to adopt a law without amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u292	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? No. Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. Minister, you're welcome to the podium. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u293	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Act enters into force after 14 days, but there are exceptions. There's a lot of them, but one of those exceptions... I'll admit it's the first time I've ever seen such an exception. Certain provisions shall enter into force on the day following that of their publication with effect from 31 July 2015. That's four years back. I would ask you to explain the rules, of course, roughly. Why is there such a reverse action here, over four years old?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u294	Mr. Senator! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As far as I'm concerned... I'm looking for... I've managed to get to that recipe and I'll explain everything to you. Ladies and gentlemen, these provisions concern the issue, one can say, very simple, prosaic, but extremely important. Until now, the Act on healthcare provision has used references only to the Member States of the European Union. This was an oversight on our part because, according to European legislation, the same powers are also granted in the case of benefits granted in the European Economic Area countries. So we're talking directly about the fact that a patient who was abroad may have expected, in accordance with other regulations, reimbursement of claims, reimbursement of the payments for benefits that were made to him. It's summer season now. You can imagine that we're going, for example. To Spain, we're being bitten by a shark and... Spain is in the Union. But we're going, for example. to Liechtenstein, which is in the European Economic Area, something happens to us there, we go back and the fund pays us for it. The aim of these provisions is to finance recipients, patients, to cover the costs of benefits granted in the European Economic Area countries on the same terms as those granted in the European Union countries. And since this is a promotional action, these provisions apply retroactively. So patients who have had to go back four years, for example. in Norway or Iceland, will they be able to apply for their reimbursement on the basis of these provisions? Yes. They're already... We should have introduced this earlier, but because it was only noticed at this stage, this change comes into force with such a deadline. If the senator had read the other amended articles, you saw that in many places we had made changes, adding EEA records.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u295	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj, please speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u296	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! For the same reasons as in the case of the previous law, together with Professor Grodzki, we are making an amendment so that what concerns the implementation of this law also results in the fact that there will be money from the budget that will help the entities implementing this solution. Because it's not a cost-effective solution. It will consume a certain amount of money to implement this law. And for the reasons that I mentioned earlier, the situation of individual subjects, especially medicinal entities, is tense, difficult. Therefore, any support for the elements related to the implementation of this law would be a good solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u297	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Konstanty Radziwiłł.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u298	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! It seemed to me that I no longer needed to speak on this matter, but especially after the intervention which took place and the announcement of the notification or notification of this request, I could not refuse to ask for a vote. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2015, when we embraced governments, we found one really big problem in the drawers of the Ministry of Health. It was a matter of computerising the health system. The so-called P1 platform, which has been being prepared for years, and which was to be financed in the amount, if I remember correctly, about 700 million PLN mainly from European funds, lay, you can say, in ruins. Everything pointed to the fact that I'm calling from memory, too. 400 million PLN, which we have already spent in Poland on the implementation of this platform, was practically money thrown into the mud. There was nothing we could do about it. It was money, very specific money that flowed from the Union to help us start this process, an important process of computerization of the health system. Thanks to time, I would say, superhuman efforts and really huge, thoughtful work succeeded, you could say, somehow manage this situation, even though there were really huge problems with it. And so we did not have to return the money to the European Union. And computerization, powered by various means, e.g. due to the introduction of electronic sick leave, where specific money went to healthcare providers, but also simply because the difference in the budget of the National Health Fund between 2015 and the current year is about... Well, right now it's half that amount. Less than PLN 70 billion, and now nearly PLN 100 billion. Yeah, well, you can push it forward. Really, it's not like that money ran out of money. On the contrary. I'm going back to that again. There are facilities that, for these measures, the increasing resources that go to hospitals, manage well, don't indebt, and also computerize. And it seems hard to imagine that in a situation that should be rather unique when it comes to money spent on one or another of these tasks... that we would also at this point lead to the actual incapacity of those who manage health care institutions. Really, you have to look at computerization in health care, which is supported by very many different mechanisms, as part of the normal functioning of these hospitals. We do not give funds to hospitals or health institutions for transport, electricity, water, various other expenditures, considering that these are the normal costs of doing business, of every activity. It seems that as we enter the third decade of the 21st century, we should finally consider that computer science is not something extraordinary, it is just an element of the normal functioning of such a facility, especially such a facility as a hospital or other health care facility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u299	Thank you very much. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. There you go. Five minutes, Mr. Senator, because this is the second performance.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u300	It'll be shorter, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I did not say a word about the fact that I do not appreciate the superhuman effort of those who found a void in health care in 2015 and the superhuman effort drew Polish health protection into the wide waters that we see today, because we see where it is today. And what is she like, Minister Radziwiłł... I'm really inviting you, sir. I'm inviting you outside of Warsaw. I will pay the toll, organize a meeting so that you will hear the Polish county, hear what health protection looks like in the Polish county. Very good. Very good? Maybe a friend of Jozie's is very good. Come on, we'll go together. That's one thing. Secondly, I didn't say that we wanted to take away the powers, make management directors incapacitated, that we would deny them the opportunity to make this investment. 'Cause it's an investment. In the form of computerization they carry out. I just make a request and ask you not to extend it so that we compare it with the purchase of fuel or units of transport that is needed in the facility. In order to answer the question of whether, in today's financial situation, and I said before, for a billion PLN, individuals are in debt within a year, this is a financial problem. We, me and Prof. Grodzki, Mr. Senator, recognize that this is a problem in facilities. I'm sure there are facilities that don't have a problem with that, and they're gonna complete it. So it can modify this proposal and how Poland is long and wide, and it is different... Well, can he authorize the Minister to consider his application and help those who need such help? Since we're helping people, as in the bill we've just discussed, with the lowest income in medical units And you're right. Maybe it's worth thinking about. As far as the implementation of this project is concerned, there are individuals who can handle it very well, and there are also those who balance on the basis that if you calculate the amount of depreciation, they have a loss, and without depreciation they go to zero. If they're zero without depreciation, what are they supposed to do? Well, they don't have money, they just don't. And perhaps it would be worth saving, authorising the Minister to modify this proposal? I didn't say anything about someone mismanaging, good or trying to buy them gas. We're talking about an approach to a problem. And if the state, as Law and Justice, thinks that there are no financial problems in any institution or in the vast majority of medicinal institutions in Poland or in medicinal entities in Poland, then we have a different opinion and that is what we differ from. We will decide this in the vote, but I am considering not to measure everyone with one measure, but to see that there are also facilities that would probably be pleased with such support. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u301	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I also inform you that the proposals of a legislative nature have been submitted in writing by Senators Tomasz Grodzki and Leszek Czarnobaj. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u302	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr. Senator! You add... or you, together with Senator Grodzki, an amendment that says that health care providers... funds to cover the costs of IT equipment necessary to implement the solutions in the area of eHealth referred to in this Act... Mr. Senator, what kind of solutions are you talking about? If we look at the text of the bill, we will see that there are no new solutions here, there are no solutions that did not exist before. Senator, the e-prescription is already functioning on the basis of existing legislation, and e-direction also, electronic medical records and exchanges are already functioning, as I say, on the basis of existing legislation. The eHealth Implementation Act introduces many changes that allow us to make better, more effective use of the opportunities that eHealth gives us. There is one point to which additional resources can actually be useful. This is what Senator Radziwiłł mentioned in his speech, which is the establishment of trusted profiles in primary health care facilities. But, Senator, this amendment provides for the transfer of funds from the budget from the part of the Minister of Health, from the part from which the funds come for the treatment of Polish patients, from the part from which we finance benefits, medicines, from the part from which the funds go for the education of young doctors. And if you look at the senator for the bill, you'll see there a record of measures which, apart from this law, so-called. Act 6% , besides the minimum for health care, are already transferred, 150 million zlotys just to support this only new task that is worth adding is optional, no one has to do it. There is a budget of PLN 150 million for this. During the meeting of the Council of Ministers, Prime Minister Morawiecki asked whether it would be from money to treat patients. Professor Szumowski said no, it will be from a separate pot. And although the finance minister had a bad face at the time, it was adopted in such a form. So, Mr Senator, I would like to ask for the amendment to be withdrawn, because this amendment is simply pointless. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u303	Thank you very much, Minister. I can't answer that question, Minister, because the rules don't allow it, but since... Then let's get her settled. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Health Commission to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the third agenda: the Law amending the pharmaceutical law. The text of the Act is contained in print No. 1269, and the report of the Commission In print No 1269 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Bogusława Orzechowska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u304	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On 30 July, the Health Commission considered amendments to the pharmaceutical law. The purpose and subject matter of this law is: pharmaceutical law should include an amendment to the article. 86a paragraph. 1 point 4, which relates to the scope of the authorised catalogue of medicinal products available in the pharmacy for entities other than patients or entities engaged in medicinal activities. The current amendment establishes this scope as medicinal products with OTC availability category, i.e. issued without a prescription. This excludes products containing psychoactive substances in the composition. It's for the mouth. 1. the following paragraph shall also be added. 1a in which products are excluded which, due to dosage or the possibility of adverse reactions, may adversely affect the safety or efficacy of medicinal products. The Commission, after considering these amendments... They are very needed and expected because patients and medicinal entities can shop, but from the purchase of medicinal products were practically excluded facilities such as children's homes, nursing homes... So there is a need to allow them such purchases as well. The effect of the legislative work in the Sejm was that 410 Members voted in favour of the bill, against the 7 and 3 abstentions. Our Health Committee voted unanimously in favour of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u305	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no longer a minute's query to the Senator of the rapporteur from the place. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? There are no volunteers. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? We have the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mr Maciej Miłkowski. Minister? No, thank you. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the fourth agenda: the Act amending the Law on Public Benefit and Volunteering. The text of the Act is contained in print No. 1266, and the committee report In print No 1266 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Andrzej Mioduszewski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u306	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Senate! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Laws and Petitions on the Act adopted by the Sejm on 19 July 2019 amending the Act on Public Use and Volunteering. The purpose of the bill is to create a Council of Dialogue with the Young Generation. The Council will provide a forum for dialogue between non-governmental organisations and other social institutions and public authorities on the subject of the young generation. One of its key tasks will be to support the activities of civil dialogue institutions working for the young generation, with particular emphasis on the youth councils of municipalities, which currently do not have the right way of communicating with central government. It will also be the task of the Council of Dialogue with the Young Generation to express its opinion on matters relating to the application of the law concerning the young generation, to express opinions on draft legal acts and government programmes concerning the young generation, and to initiate and support actions to increase the level of civic participation of young people in the Republic of Poland. The Council of Dialogue with the Young Generation shall consist of no less than 20 members and not more than 35 members, including the representative of the President of the Republic of Poland, a representative of the Ombudsman, a representative of the President of the Council of Ministers, a representative of the Minister responsible for Education and Education, a representative of the Minister responsible for Higher Education and Science, a representative of the Minister responsible for Physical Culture, representatives of the Chairman of the Committee, a representative of the Council of Public Benefits, a representative of local self-government units, representatives of NGOs, associations and agreements of NGOs and entities listed in Article. 3 (1) (a) 3; representatives of youth councils of municipalities, representatives of the Parliament of Students of the Republic of Poland. The term of office of the Council of Dialogue with the Young Generation will last for 2 years. The Council of the first term of office shall be appointed within 6 months of the entry into force of the Act. The Act will enter into force 14 days after its publication. Following the examination of the law at the committee meeting on 30 July 2019, the committee asks the High Senate to adopt the attached draft resolution and to adopt the law without amendment. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u307	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit a question to the Senator rapporteur from a place lasting no more than a minute. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. Minister Adam Lipiński from the Chancellery of the Prime Minister was appointed to present the position of the government. Would the Minister like to speak? If so, go to the podium. I don't want to speak in this matter. Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questions to a government representative. Are there any such questions? Mr. Senator Klein. There you go. Minister, I ask you to return to the bleacher because there is a question, unless you prefer to answer from your seat. Let's see what the question is. You're welcome, Senator, to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u308	Mr. Marshal! Minister! However, I would like to ask whether the establishment of a Council at the central level does not lead to the centralisation of the various social and local councils which are organised at the municipal level. Isn't that gonna lead to a manual exercise?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u309	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u310	At every level, such advice can be made. Unfortunately, it is not possible at the level of the counties, because it is not regulated by law. So that I would appeal for the Senate or the Sejm to accept such a change so that there would be such advice at the level of the counties. This is now only possible at the level of municipalities. And that's the decision of the legislator. But this is a government presentation. Yes? So you have some kind of vision of functioning here. So far, the vision is that it's at community level. Is this law about municipalities? Are we talking about the community level? No. It's exactly the opposite here. Excuse me? Exactly the opposite is in this bill. For now, this is only possible at the level of municipalities.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u311	Are there any further questions for the Minister? If there isn't, thank you, Minister. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. [[What else is involved in the matter of the bill.]] I would like to inform you that the proposals of a legislative nature have been made in writing on this matter by the Senators Napieralski and Pociej. Mr. Marshal, I think the Minister was talking about something very different. I don't know... Mr. Senator, you've had a chance to ask questions. I did, but the minister... The level of satisfaction with the answer is already beyond the capacity of the speaker. In view of the fact that proposals of a legislative nature have been made, I ask the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that point thirty-five, i.e. The law on the amendment of the Consular Law will be considered tomorrow. [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr. Marshal, the Senator rapporteur needs 10 minutes.]] It's a short technical break. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Your Senate, because there's been a change of senator rapporteur, I'm announcing a ten-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 19 minutes 05 to 19 minutes 16]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the Sixth Agenda: the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the United States of America on strengthening cooperation in the field of preventing and combating serious crime, signed in Washington on 12 June 2019. The text of the Act is contained in print No. 1268, and the report of the Commission In print No 1268 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Majer, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u312	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! I am pleased to present a report of the joint committees which discussed the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the United States of America on strengthening cooperation in the field of preventing and combating serious crime. The joint committees were sitting on 30 July in the presence of the members of the committee and the Minister present at today's meeting. The purpose of the bill is to give Parliament the consent to the ratification by the President of the Republic of Poland of an agreement governing cooperation between the governments of Poland and the United States of America in the field of the prevention and fight against serious crimes. The agreement contains detailed arrangements for access to databases containing dactyloscopic data, provides for the possibility of requesting a page to search its own DNA databases across the other side, regulates the protection of personal data transmitted and identifies other numerous forms of cooperation. The aim of the agreement is to combat both domestic and international crime, in particular terrorist crime. In addition, the conclusion of the contract is one of the necessary conditions for Poland's integration into the US visa-free travel programme. During the meeting, the document did not in principle raise controversy, only questions were raised as to what the words "serious crimes" contained in the title of the contract were relevant to reality. After explaining to the Minister, the senators accepted that the title was appropriate and welcomed the fact that the agreement brought us closer to the visa-free travel with the United States expected by all in our country. The high committees recommend that the Senate adopt this law without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u313	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration were authorised to represent the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative, Mr Krzysztof Kozłowski, wish to speak on this matter? Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the seventh agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the law on road traffic. I would remind you that this is a draft law implementing the Constitutional Tribunal's ruling. It is included in print No 1189, and the committee's report In print No 1189 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Jerzy Czerwiński, to present a joint report of the draft law to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u314	Mr. Marshal High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report of 3 joint committees, the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the draft law amending the law on road traffic. These three joint committees were sitting on 10 July and adopted a proposal that I will try to present to you. This is a project which implements the Constitutional Tribunal judgment of 5 December 2018. In its judgment, the Court held that Article. Article 130a (1) (a) (ii) and (iii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 5c and Article. Article 130a (1) (a) (ii) and (iii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 7 point 1 of the Law on Road Traffic is non-constitutional. To put it simply, these exempted regulations allowed the pick-up of a car or a vehicle from a guarded car park run by the county or at the request of the county only after payment of the toll for towing this vehicle and its storage in this parking lot. In its judgment, the Court held that this infringes property rights and interferes with property rights in a way that is too far-reaching. The purpose of this project is to replace the regulation preventing the removal from the road of the vehicle until the removal and parking charge is paid by a regulation providing only for the initiation of enforcement proceedings where the vehicle is issued without payment of the fee. This was not possible until now without paying a fee for removing the vehicle from the road and parking it. The project provides for the issue of a vehicle despite the non-payment of the fee. In such a case, the obligation to bring it forward should do so within 7 days of the vehicle being issued. Otherwise, enforcement proceedings involving interest will also be initiated. The project excludes the benefits of issuing a vehicle without paying a fee to persons who do not have a permanent residence or stay in the Republic of Poland. In this case, such persons, in order to recover the vehicle, must present, as is yet the case, proof of payment of the fee, at the time of issue of the vehicle. One more fact. The Constitutional Tribunal postponed the derogation of these 2 provisions until 13 September of this year. So we have until September 13 of this year as a parliament, as a whole, as a chamber to make and adopt a law that will simply enable the municipalities to collect these charges... sorry, by the districts, and also for example. by cities on the rights of the county. In the case of large cities these are quite large amounts and there are quite many such proceedings. So much for the project that's in print no. 1189 S. During the committee's meeting it was quite long-lasting, with representatives of the counties, or actually city presidents, representatives of cities on the rights of the county, who, as if from the point of view of practitioners, showed what shortcomings might still be related to this project, but also to the implementation in practice of the provisions of this project. Especially representatives of Gdańsk and Warsaw as if they stood out. In addition, before the meeting on 10 July, we consulted individual authorities, including city presidents. Some of these opinions, let us be frank, well, maybe not as much as they indicated the considerable difficulty involved in the implementation of this judgment by the Constitutional Tribunal. The point was that the execution of those duties which will not be voluntarily paid may be very difficult if the owner recovers the vehicle. Yeah, but you don't argue with the Constitutional Court's judgments. Of course, we will try to create a project that will implement this judgment. Therefore, in order to take account of the comments made both during the consultation, in writing and during the joint meeting of 3 committees, I propose an amendment to this proposal, Mr Marshal. This amendment aims to clarify the procedure for the transmission or surrender of a vehicle. Namely, it states that the vehicle is given From the parking lot, of course. But with confirmation. I.e. the person who collects such a vehicle, even if it has not paid the fee, must provide on a special form a confirmation in which this confirmation will contain data to identify the person who receives the vehicle. And this confirmation may give rise to the issue, to the issue of an implementing title in accordance with the provisions on enforcement proceedings in the administration. A model for such confirmation will be defined by the Minister. This is exactly what was included in this law by supplementing the guidelines in paragraph 1. Article 11 130a, thanks to which the Minister will be able to issue a model that confirmation on the basis of the guidelines contained in this provision. And one last thing. A transitional provision is added, which gives about six months after the entry into force of the law for the issuance of such a formula. Well, this process may be delayed, of course, due to known obvious reasons, the election process is approaching. At the moment when it turns out that this process is delayed, the next transitional provision gives the possibility or actually obliges the county council to establish a model of such confirmation, which will be signed by the person picking up the car from the parking lot existing in that district. That's what I'm calling for. I would ask the High House to accept them, of course, after they have been discussed by the joint committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u315	Currently, the senators may submit questions to the rapporteur's senator and the authorised representative of the applicants. I remind you that the applicants have authorized them to represent Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? Minister Kozłowski does not speak. At present, the senators may submit questions to the current meeting of the representative of the government relating to the item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one volunteered. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. I'm saying no one signed up. I'm closing... Before I close the discussion, I will also inform you that you have tabled proposals of a legislative nature in writing by Senator Czerwiński. The discussion is closed. As legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate directs the bill to the Legislative Commission, Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. I request that the committees be given a deadline for preparing an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the draft law still at this Senate meeting. If I don't hear any objection, I think the Senate has accepted the motion. I don't hear any objections. Thank you. We proceed with the examination of item thirty-eighth of the agenda: the second reading of the Law amending the Civil Procedure Code. I would remind you that this is a draft law implementing the Constitutional Tribunal's ruling. The draft is included in print No 1207, and the committee's report In print No 1207 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Zbigniew Cichoń, to present a joint report of the draft law to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u316	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! This proposal to amend the Code of Civil Procedure is the result of a judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal which stated that the current regulation in the Article. 98 §2 which provides that a party not represented by a professional representative but acting alone or represented by another representative shall be entitled to reimbursement of the costs up to the remuneration of the professional representative. Maybe I can explain it, because you may not know it. The costs of professional agents are so modest that they often do not cover the costs of traveling to the court. A constitutional complaint has been lodged by a person who has had to bear his own costs, in particular for travel, higher than the bar fees established by the Minister of Justice's Regulation, which are so embarrassingly low that, as I say, they did not cover the travel costs of the party that occurred before the court. The Constitutional Tribunal considered that such regulation was contrary to the Constitution. Our legislative intervention resulting from the need to comply with this judgment is that we delete the second sentence in Article. 98 §2 k.p.c., which contains this defective solution. So we eliminate what's defective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u317	Thank you, Senator. Currently, the senators may submit questions to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants have authorized them to represent Senator Zbigniew Cichoń. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you. I would now like to ask the government representative who has arrived if he wants to take the floor on the bill presented. Very short. You're welcome, Minister, to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u318	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With regard to the draft law which was presented to the High House, the government's position prepared by the Ministry of Justice is negative because the repeal of the limit on the costs of the process which may be granted to the party that won the case is not, in our view, a move that would be worth supporting. The High Chamber has already received a written position which has been sent to the Legislative Commission. We pointed out that the change would contribute to the harmonisation of the so-called height regulations. However, a party acting in person or with a non-professional proxy will still be able to obtain only reimbursement of the costs of travelling to court. Other expenses, even if necessary and on purpose, may not be reimbursed as part of the reimbursement of the costs of the process. Such differentiation is not justified. In our view, it is contrary to our sense of fairness. Since the reimbursement of the costs of the process has a compensatory function, the reasons for fairness are in favour of the reimbursement of all the necessary and intentional costs incurred in connection with the investigation of rights or defence in civil proceedings. The argument set out in the Constitutional Court's decision therefore calls for a broader assessment of the applicable rules and supports the need for harmonisation of those provisions in this respect. As I have already indicated in my position presented to the High Commission, analytical and conceptual work will be undertaken to take into account the observations of the Constitutional Court in the Ministry of Justice to draw up a government draft law on this issue. So that the government's position is negative about this submission, although not because we do not see the need for a certain reaction. We believe that these rules could be better prepared. And that is my will to declare on behalf of the Minister of Justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u319	At present, the senators may submit questions to the current meeting of the representative of the government relating to the item on the agenda. Do any of you senators want to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Minister. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up for this discussion. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed to the third reading of the bill, and this third reading would only cover a vote that will be held together with other votes. Dear Senators, I inform you that point 40, i.e. The appeal of the chairman of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation will be considered tomorrow during the vote. We proceed to item 40 of the second agenda: the Act amending the law - the electoral code and the National referendum law. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1274, and the report of the Commission − in print No 1274 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Stanisław Gogach, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u320	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I have the honour to be rapporteur for the 2nd Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Committee. The report concerns the Act amending the Act − Election Code and the National referendum adopted by the Sejm on 31 July 2019. This is Senate printing No 1274 A. The Senate Marshal sent the bill to the committee on 31 July. Following the review of the Act at its meeting on 1 August 2019, the committees shall request the High Senate to adopt the attached draft. The Commission has adopted this law without amendments, despite the fact that proposals for amendments have been tabled. There was a request to reject the law as far as possible in its entirety, there were requests for amendments to the Act, but the application for rejection was rejected and passed the application for adoption of the Act without amendments. I would like to say that the law is aimed at achieving consistency with the provisions of the Law on the Supreme Court which took place in 2018. As a result of these records, it was not simply... Nor have these changes been made with regard to the law - the electoral code. And at this point, although in the Supreme Court Act, in the article. 26, it is stated that it is in the competence of the Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs that it is up to it that there are matters concerning election control or decisions on the validity of elections, that in the electoral code it was still the Chamber of Labour and Social Security, so that of course this had to be changed. As far as the changes that have been made are concerned, the changes have been introduced, as I said, into the electoral code. That's the way it's said in Art. 244 after §1 the following paragraph 1a is inserted: in the cases referred to in §1, the Supreme Court shall rule And that's what's added. In the composition of the entire competent Chamber. As far as the presidential election is concerned, this is an analogy. And there's another change, a change that concerns the National referendum law. Art. 35 is replaced by the following: 1. The Supreme Court shall decide on the validity of the referendum by adopting a resolution on this matter. And the next paragraph states that the Supreme Court shall rule in the composition of the entire competent Chamber. And these are basically the changes that just stayed here... These are the most important changes that have been made. Yes, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u321	Thank you, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Piotr Ziientarski, to present a proposal for a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u322	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the minority, I request that this bill be rejected. There's a lot of reasons. The first and fundamental nature is formal, but also constitutional. I would like to recall the analogy, which is the argument relating to the failure to comply with the terms of the Seym, these 14 days. Then it was the criminal code, and now the electoral code. Clear regulation is 14 days from the date of entry into the first reading. Of course, that term was not respected. I would like to remind you that this argument, the same argument, has decided that President Andrzej Duda did not sign the law on amending the criminal code, justifying this argument. This is the first basic argument which, of course, is linked to the violation of the Constitution's provisions, because the Constitution refers to regulatory solutions, and the Rules clearly refer to the submission of codes. Also for substantive reasons, we absolutely cannot put our hands on this amendment, because this is, you can say, a continuation of the bill As I recall, from the presentation of the Presidential of December 2017 concerning the Supreme Court. I would like to remind you that election control cases have been dealt with by a specialist in this, with long-standing case-law, composed of judges appointed in accordance with the Constitution, without any accusations, without a doubt of any legal background, the Chamber of Labour, Social Insurance and Public Affairs. These public cases, where there were issues related to appeals, the recognition of electoral charges or the determination of the validity of elections, were not known for what reason... Well, we presume for what reason: because you had to set up your emergency complaint room, a completely curiosable formula. By the non-constitutional National Judicial Council, which, even in the light of the non-constitutional rules relating to the appointment of judges, has not been confirmed, because to this day the proper application of these candidates has not been confirmed, concealing the letters of support. I would remind you that matters relating to the validity of the functioning of the National Judicial Council are pending before the Court of Justice of the European Union and this is a very important problem. We have already had the opinion of the Advocate General of the TSUE. So that right now... So, at all, the validity of the appointment of these judges is in question. Besides, in legal literature, there is also much in doctrine about this disciplinary chamber as a special court. I would like to remind you, among others. Judge Sparrow's articles from the Jagiellonian University, which clearly states that this is a special court, which is a completely unconstitutional chamber. And here, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with the above mentioned law with the creation of a mechanism for the appointment of judges, so-called. their judges, because designated by the Ministry of De facto Justice, who will control the validity of elections in case of emergency. That's my personal opinion. I noticed that the suddenness that I was talking about at the very beginning came along. In addition, I stress the sitting of the Sejm and as a result of non-compliance with the rules of the Sejm, as I would say, the reaction to the articles of political scientists, among others. Mr Flis from Cracow, Mr Migalski, who started in the pages, among others. The fact that the opposition also has a chance to win is that the case of winning is not obvious, as it seemed at first. And there's a reaction immediately, right after that, there's a reaction and a electoral code... Maybe it's just a coincidence. That's my opinion. However, the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm were clearly violated, as I said at the beginning. And that's why absolutely for reasons of substance and formality, which actually translate into material issues, because of the violation of the Constitution. We cannot support this. Not to mention this. I'll just add that, by the way. After all, the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal made it clear that the electoral code must not be changed within at least six months before the elections. There are dywags here, whether it's a major change or not. I leave this argument at the end, because the previous ones I was talking about are of fundamental importance. Therefore, for many reasons, which I have outlined here initially and briefly, it is absolutely unacceptable to give the Law and Justice the possibility of possible insurance. This could be a situation... This is already some kind of speculation, speculation. In any case, I think it may be that the independence of the three-person squad will be, so to speak, more difficult to control than half the composition of the entire chamber, which I mentioned at the beginning, i.e. unconstitutionally. Therefore, for a number of very important constitutional reasons, we can only say decisively that this law does not exist and support the proposal to reject it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u323	I now ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Jan Rulewski, to present a proposal for a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u324	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The presentation of my predecessor is certainly proof of the deep distrust that has arisen in the face of the election campaign ahead of us. This mistrust had a greater dimension during the committee's work. The fundamental objections raised by Senator Zientarski clearly conflicted with the voices of the authors of the bill, the people of the electoral commission and the Ministry of Justice, as well as its defenders, the senators present here. We know the position of opponents, we know less about the position of defenders, which you presented to the Chair of the Legislative Commission, recognising that this is a technical matter. Senator Czerwiński, a clever observer of various laws, argued that this was not only a technical change, but a change which in fact does not decide, in the light of the ruling of the Constitutional Court, on the important subjects and actions of the electoral act. He argued that these were changes that concern the post-factum situation, the situation of verification of the electoral act, the results of the election through the court, and that, as you know, is an institution of some minor importance. The minority proposal I have put forward actually covers a total of 3 changes. This is a bridge between these two extreme positions. It shall apply to Article. Four laws. I propose that what is the essence of conflict, the suddenness of change, as well as the time before the elections, mitigate the change that would consist of This amendment, as suggested by the legislative department and the authors of the Act, is of a random nature, not affecting the precision of the electoral act This is justified by the fact that so far the elections have been made at least twice, the ones I remember taking place on the basis of unclear rules or perhaps incorrect rules, which are not proven, so at least the legislative department has met their requirements. These elections were held both to local governments and to parliament, although there was no referendum... Turns out there was no doubt. It is also worth noting that it is not the correct argument of all those who say that these are technical changes. I would like to draw attention, especially to some of the senators mentioned here, to the fact that elections to local government were held in 2014, very strongly protested by the PiS. I am saying that many of the participants, members of the Senate, have been granted a partial mandate on this basis, partly meaning that this had an impact. In which a technical matter was questioned, namely the print-out of electoral lists. Books. Please? The so-called. The books. Yeah, so-called. The books. It was a purely technical matter, which no one denied, no one questioned trust in the electoral commission, and until today, this trust is not called into question. But it happened. It has happened that the electoral lists have taken such a form in a technical, graphic or technical sense. However, it was from this side that deep reservations arose, which spread throughout Europe, undermining the principles of the electoral act in Poland. Luckily, it was short-lived. Nevertheless, it has resulted, I would remind you, Mr Czerwiński, in a huge change in the electoral code, which was later confronted with another change in the two electoral committees as regards other acts, and even created entire socio-political movements to control elections. And yet there was only a technical failure, as I allowed myself at the committee meeting to determine: a failure of the gasket. So that the claim that the changes that take place during or on Christmas Eve of elections, even if small and uninfluenced... is not necessarily justified, especially in Poland, where the elections take place in an atmosphere of deep distrust among the parties to these elections. That is why I propose that these changes, which are controversial today and which could cast a shadow on the forthcoming elections, should be postponed to the period after 1 January 2020. Therefore, I accept this position, and I take part in the position presented by the authors. The second amendment also concerns something that happened in Poland. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 of this law is stated, the obligation of the Supreme Court to notify the highest authorities of the State, and the matter only concerns a referendum, the validity of a referendum. Point 4 states that this validity is announced in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. However, I propose that this be combined so that both the notification of the highest authorities of the State and the publication in the Official Journal take place together and immediately. I am based here on some unpleasant experience that has taken place in connection with the decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal. I don't remember the date, maybe Senator Zientarski could help me, I think it was in 2016. - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. Then Prime Minister Szydło refused to publish the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. You'd think it was nothing. No, that's not true. This is what Europe has been doing. The Venice Commission came, the case examined Europe and it turned out that the Prime Minister had no powers to block the publication of decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal. It is obvious and even reasonable that, since we have adopted the separation of these authorities, the Prime Minister cannot interfere with the technical issue, whether to print the ruling or not. And it turned out that the Prime Minister on a technical matter, which, however, proved to be decisive for the validity of this ruling of the Court, decided that it was actually suspended in the air. Between us, and this is what I draw the attention of those who are critics of the European Union It got pregnant in her career. Once she became a MEP and claimed to be with the various authorities in the European Union, her trust was denied. I think the reason was that she simply used such a free American woman, she thought she was the one who decided everything, even technical matters. That is why I propose in this amendment that it be absolute and simultaneous notification of the state offices and announcement in the Official Journal of the Laws on the validity of referendums. And actually these are the two main proposals from the minority proposal. There's another three. As the rapporteur said, this was not the subject of analysis in the Sejm. Namely, the Supreme Court, when deciding on the validity of the referendum, has the possibility of announcing the validity decision within 60 days. I believe that a referendum is one of the simpler issues in electoral ordination, much simpler than those when many personal issues have to be resolved, and this 60-day deadline is too distant. Although the bill says that it is up to 60 days, I suggest that this deadline be shortened to 30 days, because there is insufficient justification for why it is necessary to wait until two months for a judgment of validity. Especially since in other acts we say that the work of this court will be quite facilitated, because it will be the whole Chamber and more democratically, as some say, it will be settled. So I think this term is too distant. What is more, I believe that this is a deadline which the various forces against democracy can use to challenge decisions, to influence decisions, to influence the judgment of the court. I accept that such a phenomenon may occur and hence this proposal that the court should rule on the validity of the referendum within 30 days. High Izbo, this is not a proposal for a compromise, although it may seem so at first glance, it is a proposal to rationalise this law. Please accept the minority request. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u325	Thank you, Senator. Currently, the senators may ask the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question? In corrigendum mode. Can I ad vocem? Maybe questions first. Senator Radziwill. There you go. Tell me which rapporteur you are asking the question to. Thank you, Mr. Marshal... Mr. Senator Rulewski, please pay attention, because there are questions and there may be a question for you. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u326	I have a question for Senator Gogach. My question is very simple. At the moment, we are dealing with a discrepancy, which the rapporteur referred to, between the regulations contained in the article. 26 Law on the Supreme Court and in Art. 244. And according to the presidential election later, as far as the subject is concerned, who is to investigate the validity of the election... If we had not made this change today, how would it be practical if such a protest had to be settled? Who would do that, and under which rule? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u327	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u328	I'd like to start at the very beginning... I think in some way. That's something to do with that question. Senator Jan Rulewski spent a lot of time criticizing my assessment of this project as a technical project. I would like to remind you here that I have used my analyses, but I have also used the materials from the Seym stage in this legislative process. I also read into the record of the Extraordinary Commission meeting for the examination of draft electoral laws. Mr Tomasz Szymański from the Civic Platform Club, the Civic Coalition, spoke at the meeting of this committee. I quote: Madam President, High Commission, we actually came yesterday to face a technical project, because there is nothing to hide that this is the consequence of changes under the Supreme Court Act. And so on, and so on... So that this is not only my assessment, but also the assessment of those who later criticize the follow-up, criticize those aspects which you have also raised and which we, however, defended at the committee meeting. As for the question you asked Senator Konstanta Radziwiłł, that's how I think. Since the Supreme Court Act has an article. 26, who talks about the responsibilities of the Chamber of Emergency and Public Affairs... It states that this committee is responsible for the protests of individual Members, individual parliamentarians elected... that is to say, protests about individual parliamentarians, or evaluates the validity of all these elections. That's a valid record at the moment. However, the failure to make a change with some consequence, so that there is some uniformity and consistency in the system of law... Well, if we hadn't, first of all, there would have been no legal effect, second of all, to show that Parliament has neglected something. Therefore, for the sake of legislative clarity and for the sake of certainty as regards legal interpretations, we do so. But, as I said, this is an adjustment of the records that result from the adoption of the Supreme Court Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u329	Thank you, Senator. Senator Czerwiński is asking another question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u330	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to ask Senator Rulewski a question. Well, in his... He's not here. There he is! Oh, there he is. He's found himself. There he is. He's in hiding. Well, in your line of work, you compared the rules on the appearance of the ballot cards or, in fact, the 2014 local election booklets to those provisions that are now changing the law. But this bill changes... well, maybe it doesn't change that much. I'll talk about it later in my speech. How much does it specify, what composition of the relevant Chamber will deal with possible electoral protests and the validity of elections, that is, something that will happen after the elections. So something that doesn't affect electoral rights... But for the results, but for the results. ...in particular, passive and active electoral rights before the elections. But maybe it's different. Surely the appearance of a ballot influences how candidates are selected Before the election, of course, or at the time of the election. The question is very simple. Please explain in a logical, causal and effective manner how the Supreme Court composition Whether this three-person or entire chamber of office affects, of course, before the elections, the electoral, passive and active rights, voters, the Pole who participates in the elections.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u331	Please, Mr. Senator. Would you like to answer that?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u332	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Please. Mr. Senator Czerwinski, the question is understandable to me. The electoral process is integral and covers both the voting period and later, at the time of verification, when citizens, groups of citizens have the right to court to verify. You yourself suggested during the work, during this debate, that it is even important whether the court supposed to be more democratic, or whether the court in its existing composition, which is considered inappropriate by the authors of the law, is less democratic. Well, if we're raising a case as to whether the courts are democratic... Exactly. ...or undemocratic, we enter the very essence of democracy... Between you and me, I'm a little confused myself, Mr. Senator, which is a better option. Is a three-person court that will definitely decide, because it is technically possible to make out of these dozens of... Or the court to which it is assumed legislatively that it will be in full office, as a whole. However, there are various situations of chance and may happen, unconsciously or consciously, to decomplete this court and therefore not announce the election results. And let me put it this way, from the observer's experience, you certainly have a similar experience. Please note that the biggest social conflicts against the electoral background arise not at the time of the vote, but at the time of the announcement of the election results... Exactly. Yes, sir. ...then when people find out that their election will, due to technical reasons, generally... After all, no one emphasizes that people fell too much in love with some candidate, that he was misrepresented, etc. It's usually said that the election results have been falsified. So we're talking about what you think is... Whether the vote is important or not. ...grotesque, something smaller. And therefore there are social conflicts. And I've justified that the biggest... the only, probably the largest gap at the moment in the election period was just in 2014. As far as I know, as far as I can remember. I'm sorry if this isn't precise. Even in the European Union, this country has been advertising with this act. Well, this may be because of this naive faith, or perhaps the inconvenient advice, to avoid what in Poland so far fortunately was not: that after the election the results will be widely questioned. That's why I'm responding to your reservations. And I don't think I have anything more to add than the fact that I have good will here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u333	Thank you, Senator. Are there any more questions for the Senators of the rapporteurs? Senator Radziwill. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u334	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would like to ask you the same question that I asked Senator Gogacz, to ask Senator Ziientarski, who is asking you to reject this regulation. Which of the regulations do you think should be applied to the electoral protest? Is the current rule of the Supreme Court Act or the current rule of the electoral code?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u335	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u336	First of all, this issue wasn't an object or... Excuse me, Mr. Senator... Yes? ...I'm asking your opinion. Oh, no, that's... I say again: I am the rapporteur of the minority and I am talking about the presentation and the committee meeting. Not at the committee meeting, not about... I believe that this problem goes beyond the scope of this decision, because here it is a clear issue: the content is about changing composition and that is all. And that's it. It concerns, of course, in my opinion... This is a revision of the electoral code, but it concerns the Supreme Court, which earlier in its factual character, as I said, in the Chamber of Labour, Social Insurance and Public Affairs... This has been ripped out of this chamber and moved to a new, unconstitutionally elected chamber, which is why there are doubts about the objectivity of the election assessment. And that is the problem of this submission and our position. On the fact that we can't, so to speak, put our hands together to correct something that we previously considered unconstitutional. Whether it's improving or not, it's a matter for discussion, but it's a secondary matter. First-rate is so... That's what he was talking about, among other things. Marshal Borowski, who compared it in the committee to this situation: earlier it was decided that cancer is fish, and now also in another part we have to supplement it, again. Well, it can't be that we're correcting or changing something that was unconstitutional before. This, which is the subject matter of this submission at all, is still... what is its subject matter is unconstitutional. I'm not talking anymore. Once again, I would like to stress this. The rule of law that I mentioned at the beginning, the violation of the rules of procedure or the violation of the constitution. Let me remind you again: that's what he said. Just breaking those rules and doubting - The president. - The Dude, he didn't sign the penitentiary code. And here, by the way, we have the same situation. It's hard not to call it a electoral code, because it's a electoral code. Then I wonder how the president could sign such a bill in a situation where he had previously argued... in the case of that code he had his doubts and thus passed it to the Constitutional Tribunal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u337	The senator has an extra question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u338	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Thank you for the lecture, but the senator didn't answer my question... It's not an object... ...and I have the overwhelming impression that by proposing not to take this amendment... No, I'm not gonna say... But, Senator... Yes? Can I ask you a question? 'Cause I think I'm entitled to that. No, the question was... The question has already been asked. Gentlemen, senators, the question is now asked by the senator... I have the right to ask you a second question. How will the marshal speak? He just gave me the floor. The marshal gave me the floor. The question is Senator Radziwiłł. I have the overwhelming impression that by proposing not to take this amendment... That's a comment, not a question. Mr. Senator, you don't have a voice right now. Senator Radziwill has a voice. I have the impression that by proposing not to make this amendment, it is you who are preparing some armagedon here after the election in case there are any protests. My question is very specific. In a situation where two laws are in force, the Supreme Court Act with Article. 26 and the Act on the Election Code of Art. I have a question: if there is an electoral protest, which subject and in what composition will the protest be considered? Senator Gogacz said there may be doubts, but according to him, the Supreme Court Act... I'm asking your opinion. You said cancer, fish, etc. I don't know if it was at the committee meeting or if it was your opinion. Can't I have that opinion? If not, well, that's a very specific question. I ask: which of these provisions will be applied? Which subject will consider the electoral protest, and in what composition will he do so if we do not amend the bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u339	Does Senator Zientarski want to answer? You can do it from the start.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u340	It was clear so far that according to this law I will say once again: the Unconstitutional Act on the Constitution of the Supreme Court... That's your opinion. ...has to recognize the three-person composition. Which chamber? Well, this chamber is re-established, which is the Chamber of Extraordinary Complaints and Public Affairs. This was, so to speak, taken from the Chamber of Labour and Social Insurance and handed over to the judges newly appointed by the non-constitutional National Judicial Council.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u341	Are there any more questions for the Senators of the rapporteurs? And that's been known before. It's not today... Are there any more questions? I do. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. There you go. Please specify...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u342	I have two questions for the rapporteur of the majority. Mr. Senator, why aren't the legal terms kept in the Sejm in the process of this law, quite politically relevant? What are the Rules of Procedure for the Code in the Seym, you know perfectly well, so I'm not going to quote it. That's the first question. And the other. Why, since the case has been known since December... This Regulation shall What? This Regulation Since 2017, it has been known that there may be interpretation problems after the amendment of the Law on the Supreme Court. Why was it violated by the Constitutional Tribunal that certain matters concerning the electoral code in this case were not changed six months before the elections? Thank you. These are my two questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u343	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u344	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, it would be difficult for me to judge this parliamentary legislative phase. We get from the Marshal's print... But we know the deadline... Mr. Senator, this is the second time I urge you not to disturb the Senator rapporteur. We receive printing from the Sejm and it is our duty to work on this printing, on the printing of the bill that has been... Because that's what you have to call a bill. Although it is on the legislative path, according to constitutional language, it is a law. We get it, and we just work on this bill. As for the second question... With regard to the six months before the elections, this particular topic was discussed at the committee's meeting and we talked about it for a long time. There was also a statement by the Member who represented the Sejm. She has just referred to the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 3 November 2006, where, it seems, is defined what are important changes. Because as far as this six-month deadline is concerned, Mr. Marshal, he is concerned not to make any significant changes to the electoral code. And now, as far as the definition of significant changes is concerned, it seems that this definition is contained in my judgment. Namely, it is so defined here that making important changes in the electoral law... And then again: such should certainly include the determination of the allocation algorithms of mandates and so-called. thresholds. And that's just what we called for at the committee meeting. The recalling of this provision from the Court's judgment led the discussion, as far as this is concerned, to no further discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u345	Mr. Marshal wants to ask you another question? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u346	Yes, I'd like to ask you an ancillary question so that you can answer my first question precisely. Thank you for answering the second question, although I do not agree with this answer, but I will say this in my speech. I want to clarify the first question. Has he been violated in the Seym with regard to work on the Code or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u347	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u348	Mr. Marshal, I don't recall ever having to discuss in the Senate the laws that we receive from the Sejm, thinking about their legality. The Constitutional Tribunal shall, of course, examine if there are such proposals concerning compliance with the Constitution. Yes? Then he analyses the whole legislative path. But I do not recall that in the report of a committee concerning a bill coming from the Sejm, there was a negative assessment of the work of the Sejm in the sense that the Sejm did not comply with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u349	Are there any further questions? I've still got... Please, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u350	Mr. Senator, do you realize that... I'm not asking this question out of malice. For me, as a senator, it's important to answer that question. We'll be voting on this tomorrow.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u351	At the committee meeting, we did not examine the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u352	Are there any further questions? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. The bill was introduced by Members. Is there a representative of the House of Parliament in the Chamber? He's not present, so we can't ask questions. Mr. Marshal, is there a government representative? There's no government representative on this. There's no government representative on this issue either. She's the head of the election office. Yes, she is the head of the National Election Office, Minister Magdalena Pietrzak. I have a question. There you go. Then I invite the Minister to the grandstand. Please, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u353	I want to ask you a similar question. Do you know why we're investigating this bill in less than six months? There's an election in three months. Do you have that information you can share with us? I ask because the case has been known for a long time, i.e. since December 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u354	Does the Minister want to answer? I don't know. You don't have to. I don't think so. Good. Mr. Senator... [[Talking in the O.R.]] The senator's in the way. Mr. Senator, you can't see the Minister and you can't communicate. Step aside, please. God's nature... Does the Minister want to answer? If so, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u355	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, I will certainly not speak on the subject of...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u356	Thank you very much. Are there any other questions for the Minister? If there isn't... I do. Do you have a marshal? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u357	Minister, tell me the range of questions you can answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u358	I withdraw this question, Mr. Marshal, because it is not related to the subject matter. Do you have any further questions? I asked the question, Mr. Marshal. Mr Marshal, the second question does not specifically concern the subject of the House's deliberations. It concerns the general knowledge of the Minister. This is no place for the Minister's exam. Next question. I don't want to test the Minister. That's what it sounded like. That's how I feel about it. Absolutely not. If you have further questions on the agenda, please. No questions. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I inform you that none of your senators... What do you mean? Yes? Senator Czerwinski. Mr. Senator. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. There you go. And Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal One. No, Mr. Senator first. There you go, Mr. Senator. I'm a cultural man. I'm not gonna push.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u359	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This law is, in fact, a technical act, and it's very small in scope, and I'm about to try to prove it. You are trying here to turn to the left side of the senate hall to make it a political law, so to speak. You can't do that. You really can't. You use different arguments. The most interesting argument is that the composition of the Supreme Court It is usually a time, after an election act, which influences what a particular citizen does, on his right at the urn or behind the cataract. And I'll admit, it's kind of like going back in time. I don't see any potential influence. But perhaps you can prove it to me. Because no one's done it yet. I will refer to the other arguments used later. What's the deal with this bill? The question is, what would have happened if this bill hadn't been in place. There's been a question here. The Supreme Court, or actually three judges of the Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs, would rule on electoral protests and also on the validity of elections as a whole. Is that right, Minister? Yes. Why is that? True, it is preserved in the code. Article 2 244, which states: The Supreme Court in the composition of the entire Chamber of Labour, Social Insurance and Public Affairs, etc., etc., except that this Chamber of Labour, Social Insurance and Public Affairs simply no longer exists. The Chambers of Labour, Social Security and Public Affairs are gone. It is without public affairs. She doesn't exist. An entity that doesn't exist can't do anything. What do we use in this case? There's a transitional article in the Supreme Court Act, Art. Point 128 (1): Whenever in separate provisions, and separate provisions are, inter alia, The electoral code is mentioned in the Chamber of Labour, Social Insurance and Public Affairs of the Supreme Court... And it's about her, for example. It's in the article. 244, which I just quoted. And further: the Chamber of Labour and Social Insurance should therefore be understood accordingly. It's one of those that exists right now. Or the Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs of the Supreme Court. The question is what it means, respectively. I mean, as far as the case is concerned. As far as the social security case is concerned, this first chamber is ruling. As regards public affairs, the elections The other one. How do we know it's the other one? Because that's the scope of this room. That is the scope of this House's tasks. In the article... In Article 2, paragraph 2 is Oh, that's right, Mr. President, in your article. 26... We can quote this so that there is already a set of data in a single statement: "It is up to the Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs to deal with emergency complaints, to recognise electoral protests and protests against the validity of the national referendum and constitutional referendum and to state the validity of elections and referendums." I'll leave the rest to you. It's obvious. Transitional provision, that is, Article. 128, plus a material provision, i.e. art. 26, give us a full interpretation of who and in what mode should speak e.g. on the validity of elections. And what do the authors of this bill call for? They insist that it be clear that this Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs should speak in full, i.e. in the composition of 20 judges, because so many of them are in this Chamber. What does that mean? Well, I understand that as an increase in democracy. This means that more people will occupy or be able to take a stand on whether elections are important or not, not just 3 people, but all those who have such powers. And that's what we do in this project, change from 3 to 20. Everything else is political foaming, really. It's a six-month limit. Indeed, the Constitutional Tribunal said this: six months before the election day, but before the first election act, i.e. the election order, and then the publication... should not be undertaken. What's that? Significant, important interference in the electoral law, in this case in the electoral code. But at the same time, the Court It was in the explanatory memorandum, it was not in the operative part, it was in the explanatory statement of the judgment that he said why, he said what these important changes were. These are e.g. changes in circles, even the headquarters of circuits, so as not to surprise, as I said, changes in divisions, numbers in circles, e.g. changes in the way in which candidates are submitted, which committees may and may not, changes in possible thresholds, etc., important, relevant. Why six months before the election? Because the voter needs to know which elections he will take, he needs to prepare for them both as an active voter, the voter and the passive voter, the one who has the right to be elected. That's the point. Therefore, I asked what impact on the passive and active rights of the average voters in Poland is that the judges will be in the composition of 3 or 20 to state the validity of the elections. I'm not talking about whether they think the election was important or not. I'm asking how this affects those earlier acts before they put in the ballot. Why don't you explain it to me? You can't, 'cause I'm gonna say it again. You're politically foaming. Don't do this because it's a waste of time, really. Actually, this law is, you can say, pure, in the sense that this law I think is really improving the situation when it comes to democratisation of elections. Maybe you think differently, except I see one more aspect of the case here. Well, it's been a while. It's going to be a matter of judgment, we're a little off the bill, but I have to say it, we're watching the process, so to speak, an anti-state rebellion, I don't want to use the word "anarchy," but in the end it is. And these judges will usurp their right to the so-called. a dispersed constitutional control, although a single body is clearly indicated in the Constitution, the constitutionality of the acts is controlled by the Constitutional Tribunal. But no. You can sue any bill to the Court, but you don't do it, you do something else. Recently there have been acts related to it, so to speak, with the secretion of enclaves, of individual presidential cities in general, and attempts to undermine the existence there... maybe in full respect of Polish law, that in these cities it is so that Polish law is in force, but perhaps not entirely. These are the presidents of some cities... I'm not gonna point out who's gonna be insulted. What are you doing now? Well, now you're trying to tell me that the election's gonna be rigged. In other words, maybe I said wrong. That the elections might be forged. Oh, maybe like this. And the result of that... The assessment of whether they will be falsified or important is politically dependent. It's because of your eight years of ruling, that outcome wasn't politically dependent, and now it's politically dependent, right? Time's up. Yes, Mr. Marshal, time is passing. I hope you'll reflect. I would simply ask you to separate the policy from this, because the content of this law is obvious. Really. On other occasions, we can politicize, but maybe not with this one.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u360	Thank you, Senator. You have the voice of Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u361	High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! Well, it's hard for me to have no objection to this law in a situation where the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm are violated, which provides that there is a time for codes: 14 days plus 14 days. You just don't follow that. Why? Why, too, is a change being made during a properly starting election campaign called a technical change, which conveys the election control of a newly created chamber, a chamber created by an authority which has been set up in violation of the Constitution, which is the new National Judicial Council? Why do you need a gmerata in this bill, in the electoral code? Do you not realize what the opinions will be, what concerns will be, what concerns will be? Why are you doing this? For what purpose? Why do you do that by breaking the rules that were previously adopted and followed? Because all governments have respected this period of six months, which I am talking about, even in the case of technical matters, they may have observed it with undue caution. And you come with that nerve and say, "Nothing happens." Unfortunately, it is important to have such an assessment that elections are a political issue. You say that the full composition is more democratic. And the courts aren't about democracy, they're about independence. Are 3 judges less independent than 20 judges? Are these the kind of criteria that apply to the functioning of the court? There are 2 key criteria for the functioning of the courts: independence of judges and independence of the court. Since you have created from the beginning, voting in the Sejm only in favour of your candidates, the new chamber, and handing over full authority to this House in terms of election evaluation and control, as those who have and had a different opinion and that opinion here, were concerned with the Constitutional Court and the National Judicial Council... You think we're gonna take our word for it? In fact, it's actually like this. I heard it as part of a polemic. That's enough art. 128 and Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. Twenty-six to make sure you can control the election. This is a bill that raises a lot of questions. I asked those questions. I didn't hear the answer. The answer is that we are unable to assess the functioning of another chamber... Well, well, maybe some can't, but I'm able to read the Rules of the Sejm, and there's a bull standing there that you can process the codes after 14 days from the day you deliver the legal proposal. And then there's another 14 days. It was for some purpose that it was created with some thought. Why isn't this respected? Well, unfortunately, I don't believe in good qualities or good rations or good faith in that power. A part of society doesn't believe with me either. It's not just my opinion. And this is not anarchy of life or anarchy of the state. I have the right and the others. And my constituents, too. They have the right to questions, they have the right to the attitude of the current government that I have. And that's what needs to be taken into account. So don't be surprised that things aren't going well. In fact, there may be anarchy, but this anarchy is being introduced by you yourselves, by changing further laws, by taking over the judiciary... Well, that's what it's called. Technical change, yes, it does not affect elections, etc. But it could affect their outcome. It can affect you. The responsibility for the state is our shared responsibility. If someone destroys the rules that are in the construction of this country and the judicial system is a state structure, the evaluation of elections is one of the basic issues It could be dangerous. This isn't the right way. That's why I'm going to vote against this bill. I don't think a position like mine is an isolated position. You have to... You have to or you should take them into account. If you do not take into account such a position, other than yours, then you will be responsible for the anarchy of state life, not the opposition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u362	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The last speaker will be Senator Zientarski. No, it's the penultimate.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u363	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to remind you consistently to Senator Czerwiński, as well as to everyone present in the Chamber and other listeners, that every judge, regional judge, including the office entrusted by the President of the Republic as a result of a proposal from the National Judicial Council, swears that he will respect the constitution and laws. He will respect the constitution and the laws of his oath. In the Constitution we have a system of sources of law, so the highest law is the constitution. And every judge has an obligation to apply the Constitution directly, because it also applies directly. Saying what you say is proof of a lack of understanding of the Constitution and the sources of law. The Constitutional Tribunal shall have the only power which no other authority has. Namely, the Constitutional Tribunal eliminates by its ruling a provision which it considers to be non-constitutional, from the legal order. That's it. That's it. Nevertheless, every judge has the right to judge, has the right to use the constitution as the highest law, higher than the law, even if it has not yet been eliminated in the legal order by the Constitutional Tribunal. And there's no other way, that's the situation. The Constitutional Tribunal is about to rule on compliance with the Constitution, which is, as I said, to eliminate the rule from the legal order. We have such a Constitutional Tribunal that the ombudsman and the senators... We called it in, didn't we? We have prepared and applied to the Court, among others. to examine the compatibility with the Constitution of the Public Prosecutor's Office Act. But we've withdrawn that motion. Why? Because they've been manipulated, they've been manipulated multiple times. The Ombudsman has done the same in many cases. So trust is completely gone. But the courts must judge and judge. Moreover, courts are also European courts and must take into account the principles arising from the case law of the European Court of Justice and the European Court of Human Rights. We know what were the decisions that caused, among others. the withdrawal of the PiS as regards the Supreme Court. Let's remind you of that. I want to remind you of that. After all, this is where you were fooling around, as we referred to you as the first President of the Supreme Court, your President, because you thought that she did not have such a title, that she was already retired and that she was absolutely not entitled to the first President of the Supreme Court. That's how you interpreted it and made water with the brain of society, convincing that the six-year rule absolutely doesn't apply, because it applies to judges who can be shortened... who can be retiring. And this constitutional period is no longer relevant. You were quite sure it couldn't be any different, of course. So? And you cuffed the tail. And as a result of the ruling of the European Court, it was simply necessary to swallow this frog. Then there was a judgment of the Constitutional Court. As Marshal Borusewicz said, the law has been since December 2017. What happened so suddenly I'm asking you that it needs to be updated now? Where did this light fall on Members who suddenly wanted, as you said, to democratise? It's a completely mistaken concept. That's what Marshal Borusewicz was talking about. What kind of democratisation in the judiciary? The judiciary, as it was said here, is to be independent. And it doesn't matter if it's a composition like this or if it's another composition. If something changes, if you're manipulating and for no reason picking on other judges every now and then, it's different. And here the situation is clear. We keep saying we can't talk about a law that improves or worsens the law, it doesn't matter. In a situation where we are dealing with an operation on non-constitutional material. Are we supposed to believe, legitimize an unconstitutional bill? Again, it's not like there's no infirmary. The House remained, only its name was changed. Part of the powers of this Chamber has been taken away and transferred to judges who have been appointed in a non-constitutional manner by the non-constitutional National Judicial Council. And here's the essence of things. There haven't been any charges before, there hasn't been a situation like this, saying it's our judge or your judge. I remind you that some of the Supreme Court judges in that Chamber were appointed judges, among others. President Lech Kaczyński. And did we ever say they weren't our judges? And the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, Mr Stępień, was appointed by the Civic Platform or by Mr Lech Kaczyński? [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]] If the judge is faithful to the constitution, faithful to his independence, he remains a judge to the very end. That's what justice is all about. Only the judge has to be properly appointed. And before that, the judges were appointed. None of us thought at the time to say that the president was appointed when we were in opposition, and this is their president, and now it will be ours. There was no such thing. Mr. Senator... It was triggered by you. You guys are doing politics. We want to respect the Constitution, apply European principles and be faithful to these principles. That's all it's all about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u364	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Konstanta Radziwiłł will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u365	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In three months there will be elections in Poland. Everything indicates that they will run like this. elections to the European Parliament in May, as before elections to self-government. At a time when this government rules and this political formation has a majority, there have been no allegations so far that something was wrong, but it may happen that there will be people who will protest against the validity of elections. And it's quite obvious that in a situation where the ambiguity of the rules... And that's the word that fell. I need to look at the transcript from today's meeting. From the mouth of the adversaries on both sides. And to my question, there were two very simple answers. Two lawyers replied - Senator Gogacz said that we would apply the Supreme Court Act, and Senator Zientarski said that we would apply the Law The electoral code. Yeah, well, that just shows that there's no such thing as clarity. There is a need for such clarity, so that when there are protests, there is no doubt that the matter is going smoothly, according to the regulations. And for this reason it is quite natural that these two provisions need to be harmonised. I have such an irresistible feeling... There were a lot of bad words about your judges... It wasn't me. The first statement by one of the opponents of this regulation was about your judges. Granting yourself the authority to determine if there's anything, whether it's constitutional or... There's no contradiction. ...someone has been, or has not been appointed according to the regulations, this is unfortunately the practice of the last 4 years or almost 4 years. From the very beginning... and, in fact, before the election, there was such an assumption that the outcome of the election could not be reconciled with, you could be granted the right to be above this and to assess whether this choice was correct or not. Because before the election by force, for rhyme, as some say, there were elections to the Constitutional Tribunal. Why? To control the lost majority in parliament. I mean, it was pretty obvious. Well, that's how it was, and no one's denying it right now. What do you mean no one? Well, apparently some people still deny it, but it's basically obvious to everyone. Not for everyone. During this whole period, we have to contest the results of the elections and point out at every step that this authority, which has been democratically elected, has no legitimacy to rule. This is something completely unbelievable in the democratic system. All possible tricks shall be used. And now I hear that... I've got five more minutes. ...the full composition is no different from the 3-person composition. I also see some hope in this, the last hope that we can manipulate so that these three people are more in control, but maybe we can convince them. But whose? I'm afraid that's the impression. I'm talking about it... It's not written anywhere, but for defending that it's better if there's three than everyone else, there's got to be something. Here, in turn, there were such arguments that there was no difference between three and twenty. But, ladies and gentlemen, you don't have to be a lawyer to know that different courts have the authority to make a full decision on important matters, particularly important matters. Well, that's how it is, for example. at the Constitutional Court and not only. So why not, in this particular one of the most important matters concerning democracy in Poland, grant the Chamber that is to deal with it, the power or the principle that this should be the way it should be done? I must say that all of this really gives me such a fear that the next election, too. And all indications are that your formation will lose them. They will be challenged, questioned and that this constant denial of the choice made by Poles will simply be our experience for the next term of office. It's a very bad thing. I'd just call it ruining the country. I have no doubt that this regulation, which really is technical, tidying up, is needed, and this huge amount of emotions, politics and attempts to make a small change in some assassination attempt on democracy is slowly becoming ridiculous. Funny about what you've been doing for a long time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u366	Thank you very much. Five minutes, second appearance. Senator Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u367	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Mr. Senator Radziwił, well, you're saying the obvious is not true. None of us are questioning the legitimacy to rule the country by a party that wins the election. Nobody. It's just that this government isn't, so to speak, omnipotent. There is a constitutional framework, there are powers of certain authorities, there is a division of power. I'm not getting a divorce here anymore. There are also limitations, and this is also due to our belonging to the European Union. So you can't say that, acting on the principle of scooter soul, hell is gone. This principle cannot be applied. This is the first case. Two. I'm asking you, that's what we've been talking about today. Who in the current opposition has ever questioned elections? 2014 Only Law and Justice and no one... In 2014, because they lost. We lost, and we didn't question those choices. Neither the right of legitimacy nor the President elected in a constitutional and democratic manner. Another issue was the President's violation of the Constitution during his term of office, this is another matter. Mr. Senator, if there is a situation of this kind that changes the determination of whether or not the voice is important, since only one grid has been important so far, and now another crossover can be recognised, does this increase transparency and democracy so to speak? Can this give rise to the possibility of falsifying elections, reading at different levels... I'm talking about the threat, I'm not talking about the facts. Elections aren't just an election act. Elections is what we were talking about. This is the count of votes, that is to say, whether the vote is valid or invalid, that is, the recognition of protests, that is, at the end of the statement of validity or nullity of elections. There is no doubt here that the judges who have been elected... This is what we have been talking about and we will talk about, we will talk about it, and the effects are already clearly coming from European decisions. And you went backwards, and if any man ridiculed himself, then you ridiculed yourselves. We spoke consistently. You're the ones who embarrassed yourselves with this backwards. After all, you were sure that all of this was absolutely legal and you were playing games with us. We're consistent. And if the National Judicial Council is set up in a non-constitutional manner and appoints judges to the Supreme Court, and of various qualifications, then... That's what we've been saying and we're gonna talk. And we're not the only ones saying that, politicians, I'm stressing that to be clear. And not for political purposes, but it's also said by the constitutionalists. I've already talked about doctrine here. Excuse me, it can't be that the Jagiellonian University professors are being charged for their opinion so that there are threats of a graduate that they will be sued. Well, where's that coming from? Mr. Senator... They have the right. And recognising that the judgment of the Court is not subject to publication or that the judgment of the NSA is not enforceable... What's this? This is lawlessness, this is anarchy. And we consistently oppose it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u368	Thank you very much. Senator Stanisław Gogacz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u369	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to object very strongly to the designation of the National Judicial Council as a body created by As said by your marshal With the violation of the Constitution or the name of the KRS by Senator Zientarski, an unconstitutional body. Gentlemen, you are referring to the constitutional framework, to the three divisions of the authorities, but it is so easy for you to judge whether a given body is constitutional or not constitutional, even though the Polish Constitutional Tribunal has not given such a judgment. The same is true with regard to the EUSF, the Court of Justice of the European Union He didn't give any judgment here either, Senator. What you have called, the statement of the Advocate General of the TSUE, is not a judgment, it is simply a statement of the Ombudsman. However, it is difficult for the Advocate General to do just something that would constitute an evaluation of the existing bodies in Poland. When we are discussing this Chamber today, the Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs, you are questioning it because this Chamber has been set up by the National Judicial Council, and the National Judicial Council has been set up in a way - As you say, sir. Unconstitutional, because it was established by the Sejm, even though models of such a particular appointment of councils where such national judicial councils exist... Because, of course, not everywhere, not throughout the European Union, but where they exist, such models are also known. And even if we brought up our Polish situation here... Well, what about the judges at the Constitutional Court? Doesn't the Sejm appoint judges to the Constitutional Court? He shall not appoint judges to the Constitutional Tribunal. And every time he does that, it depends on the composition of the Sejm, and it certainly has an impact on who's called there. And no one had a grudge about that. That's why such a statement is, I would say, very dangerous, but also very illusory. First of all, you're assuming something. Because there is no ruling, as I said, you are telling yourself, you assume that the KRS is unconstitutional. And if that's the case, then everything that comes from the KRS is unconstitutional, too. The Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs is also unconstitutional because the judges were elected by the National Council. And that's something I'm obviously against. There was also an assessment here as to whether the three judges' composition was more important or whether the entire House's composition... And the House as a whole is, as we know, 20 judges. As I recall, even when we were discussing the Constitutional Court in different contexts, the whole beginning of this term was a very big discussion about the Constitutional Tribunal... There it has been stressed all the time that the greater the composition, the more important the issue, the more responsible the approach, that the greater the composition will provide a better examination of the case. It seems to me that this case is kind of obvious: since the whole chamber, it will be more responsible. Senator Zientarski spoke very strongly about the fact that judges in their deliberations can directly rely on the constitution. I still remember from school days that it was always said that if there was no ordinary law, then the Constitution was used. A Articles of the Constitution Not all of them, but a lot of articles. It ends with such a statement that the detailed arrangements will be included in the ordinary law. If there is a ordinary law and the judge is not based on this law, he omits it and is based only on the constitution, then, I think, this is a very serious mistake. I, Senator, would not approve of such practice. Returning to the question of Senator Konstanty Radziwiłł, I would like to refer to the answer I gave maybe too quickly. I'm calling again the article. 26, I will read only the first sentence: it is up to the Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs to deal with emergency complaints, to recognise electoral protests, etc. It's about this election matter. We have information here that the property of this chamber... Since this is the property of this House, we must bear in mind that the Chamber of Labour and Social Insurance... the Chamber of Public Affairs that previously existed no longer exists. There is an Chamber of Labour and Social Insurance and there is no such jurisdiction within the scope of this Chamber. These characteristics are provided in Article. 26. I repeat... We've already talked about this. The main reason I forbid the vote is to oppose the constitutional state institutions to call non-constitutional institutions, to claim that the institutions referred to in the Constitution are non-constitutional if there is no formal basis for this. And that's the main reason for my speech. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u370	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. You're welcome. Five minutes, second line.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u371	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I thought there'd be a moment of reflection, but I didn't get an answer. What's with the mode? I said, why this mode? Doesn't the majority in charge, the PiS, realize that if you don't follow the rules of the Sejm It's clear to me if changes are made, even those you say are technical, within a short period of time from the election... What do you expect? What did you expect? That there will be no criticism? You're going again, I'm talking youth slang. For the rhyme. You don't care about anyone or anything. Couldn't this law have been carried out on another date, earlier? I repeat: if there are contradictions in 2 laws, they have been since December 2017. So why are you surprised that in this situation we have some suspicions? Those suspicions about the judiciary we had came true, one at a time. Some suspicions about the changes to the D.A.'s Attorney's Office Act at the beginning of your government have also come true. Then why do you think we shouldn't talk about it? Court case. From what I hear, it's all the time, every chance... Well, you can't say that the bill is against the constitution because the Court didn't vote on it. The Court takes the floor and excludes what it considers to be unconstitutional, but this does not mean that the citizen of Poland is a citizen, i.e. also a senator and a Member. It has no right to judge what is not constitutional and what is constitutional. You shouldn't confuse these things. Well, you're doing it on purpose. To say yes, the Court did not speak, so what right do you have to speak on this issue. But we have the right, and we can judge that. Our assessment does not result, unfortunately, in the removal of these non-constitutional fragments. You say file a complaint with the Constitutional Court. Come on, file a complaint... That reminds me of the proposals they've heard in the past... Write on the Berdichs, write on the Berdichs. Maybe there'll be some answers. But we don't believe that this Berdich exists, and that's the problem you created. You are leading us to believe that part of society and our opposition don't trust those procedures you're using because you're breaking these procedures. This is a bad bill. I understand that you don't think so, but this kind of thing like electoral law really needs to be approached very carefully and analysed, and predict what the opinion of this part of society that doesn't support you and the government will be. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u372	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill will be held at the end of the meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 40 of the third agenda: the Act amending certain laws in order to reduce regulatory burdens. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1273, and the report of the Commission In print No 1273 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Tadeusz Kopcia, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u373	Dear Marshal, High Senate! Minister! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on National Economy and Innovation from the Act on amending certain laws under consideration by the Commission in order to reduce regulatory burdens. High Senate, this law aims to implement further facilitations for entrepreneurs. It has to be said that this is the fourth of this type of packages, large packages for entrepreneurs. It assumes inter alia. improving part of the specific administrative procedures, increasing the re-use of data held by public administrations, repealing unnecessary information obligations, clarifying ambiguous rules, limiting certain types of excessive reporting and adapting the rules to technological developments. This law amends 66 laws. The Ministry, which is represented by Minister Ociepa, was motivated by the need to simplify the law, eliminate inconsistencies and ambiguity of the law and maintain only the necessary regulations. This was planned in the Responsible Development Strategy. The Act contains several such very profound changes and introduces a number of other point changes. In short, I would like to say a great deal about these most important changes. Thus, these fundamental changes are so-called. the right to error. The right to error is a solution that already exists in certain legal systems, e.g. France From there it was taken. The idea is that entrepreneurs who are natural persons during the first year of their business activity In other words, these beginner entrepreneurs could benefit from the right to error without being subject to an administrative penalty which would normally be linked to a breach of a given provision. They will receive only instruction. Another shift. The Act in these essential matters extends consumer protection and refers to natural persons engaged in economic activities. It also introduces further facilitations for business succession. In this package... It should be stressed that this successful process does not always involve the death of the entrepreneur, it is very often still going on in the life of the entrepreneur. This was one of the questions at the committee meeting, to which the representatives of the Ministry answered in detail this question by Senator Kleina. This is a rule that allows such a transfer of decision... So someone who's got a license, some kind of permit, can transfer it all back in life, even though it was specifically issued to this person, this older entrepreneur. This is a solution that will make it much easier to succeed in life. Further solutions in this law include amendments to the VAT Act. I would also like to say a few sentences here. This concerns the settlement of the tax on goods and services. One of the very important factors determining the competitiveness of our ports, ladies and gentlemen. Yesterday we considered 2 laws on this, Senator Libicki also spoke in this spirit about the development of the competitiveness of our ports This is how we account for VAT in import. In Poland we currently have 10 days from customs clearance for VAT settlement. In ports west of us it is treated on general terms, i.e. it is possible until the twenty-fifth day of the following month. It was a request. This is the result of what I heard in the Sejm . presented by the industry of importers. The import and logistics industry indicated this as one of the important factors determining the competitiveness of the port. This is a seemingly small change linked to the deadline for VAT settlement in imports, but in fact aimed primarily at improving the competitiveness of Polish ports vis-à-vis those ports with which they most often compete. This will, of course, relate primarily to the development of these ports, but it is worth mentioning that this will also involve an duty, which will then be paid in Poland. Another change, also presented by trade representatives, was a change that would enable crafts to be performed in the form of a company. In Poland at the moment there are more than 200,000 registered persons operating crafts companies. This amendment will be an opportunity for Polish craftsmen. I am also aware that the possibility of doing crafts and doing business in the form of a company will not be attractive to most companies, but it is a necessary path to the development of these companies, those craftsmen, whose business is going well, is doing well and who are developing. Entering the start-up stage of the company is kind of a natural next path of development. Today, craftsmen don't have that option. I would also like to stress that this is a proposal, as I have already said, very strongly supported by craftsmen's organisations. As regards these other changes, they include the elimination of the tax levy for the entry in the register of postal operators and the register of qualified trust service providers, the digitisation of certain reporting obligations for liquid fuels or the reduction of the number of information submitted per year for the provision of payment services. It is particularly important for me to introduce a silent settlement and simplified procedure in specific administrative procedures. This will speed up and simplify the procedure, but will also improve and reduce the costs of public administration. The silent settlement of the case is that, where there is no decision of the authority after the deadline for the settlement of the case, the matter shall be deemed to have been dealt with in full taking into account the request of the parties. There is no need to make a decision. The aim of the simplified procedure is to reduce the time taken to deal with matters by a simple nature which do not require full investigation, based on a certain action plan. They are characterized by speed and limited formalism. It is only possible to settle the matter in simplified proceedings if there is a clear basis in substantive law. It should be stressed that the present law provides for such provisions. It will allow this model to be applied in specific cases, for example in the areas of public roads, maritime areas, maritime administration or water law. The solutions envisaged in the project are necessary to ensure better conditions for doing business and by removing the various administrative barriers to unlock the potential needed for further business development in Poland. The law will therefore have a positive impact on the overall situation of operators in the market and is certainly the next step in the direction that is desirable for our economy. Ladies and gentlemen, during today's committee meeting, committee members have asked many specific questions about those areas that I have been trying to say in more detail here. The Ministry or representatives of the Minister answered the questions. At the end of the vote, the law was unanimously adopted without amendments. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u374	Thank you very much, Senator, for a very detailed and thorough report. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Project... I volunteer... Yes? But I'm in for a discussion. Good. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Minister Marcin Ociepa is present at the meeting. Minister? Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. You're welcome. Minister, I'd like to invite you to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u375	Mr. Marshal, it's sympathy because we come from one voivodeship. Minister! High Izbo! I have a question. You represent a resort... you represent a resort with a certain view and perspective on the development of entrepreneurship. But there are other resorts, for example. very important, I think, financial resort, which is responsible for the fact that we can have e.g. measures for very far-reaching social objectives. Are these some simplifications I've heard about here, e.g. on the fuel industry, will they not argue with the assumptions and projects that the finance department is introducing? Because he's rather, as I understand it, trying to gather as much information as possible, not to simplify the lives of entrepreneurs, just to make sure that there's as much revenue as possible in the budget.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u376	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u377	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! This bill, like any bill, is absolutely the result of the consensus of the Council of Ministers, and thus also the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology. I think we finally have a concern for economic growth. The fact is that the Minister of Finance is to increase finance, maybe primarily those that we collect under taxes, and the Minister of Entrepreneurship and Technology is focused primarily on facilitating entrepreneurs' business activities and making these burdens as low as possible, but at the end of the day, economic growth is really the key. And these rules are the result of a compromise. I do not want to talk about the kitchen, but of course it is that some ministers pay attention to their own issues, others to their own portfolio. But I'm sure we have a lot in common. this belief that the less such barriers for entrepreneurs, the more it will be able to focus on doing business, on what it is called for. And this is very valuable, because it means taxes for the Minister of Finance, jobs for our citizens, so we are absolutely profiting from it. We do not see the tensions that you are talking about here, also in such a serious issue, because we are dealing with an ongoing process of professionalization of administration, with the use of modern technologies that facilitate, including the Ministry of Finance or more of the National Tax Administration, access to many of this information simply through a number of tools that have appeared and which were not even a year ago, not to mention five years or a decade. Hence, the Minister of Finance and in general the entire administration thanks to modern technologies really have access to sources of information that make it easier for us to reconcile access to the information that the National Tax Administration needs 10 years ago, or, more generally, the public administration, with the limitation of the obligations that we impose on entrepreneurs. Because once again, they're pulling them away from their statutory activities, and we really want them to grow.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u378	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? No. Thank you, Minister. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Piotr Zientarski signed up for the floor. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u379	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I want to make an amendment to this bill and I want to justify it. The Act of 28 December 2018 amending the Excise Tax Act and certain other laws defines entities which may apply for preferential energy prices as at 30 June 2018. Among them are also local government units. Unfortunately, the current legal situation unduly differentiates them in the case of the performance of the municipalities' own tasks to ensure the lighting of public places, squares and roads. In the country just over 70% Road lighting networks are property of energy groups: PGE, Tauron, Enea and Energa. The remaining part of road lighting is owned mainly by local authorities, the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways, housing cooperatives. Where municipalities have lighting assets, they shall also have the status of end-user and may apply to them for preferential energy prices. However, in the case of lighting assets belonging to energy plants, the group shall be disadvantaged and shall not benefit from the freezing of energy prices in the second half of 2019. This applies to more than 500 municipalities using the services of Enea and Energi, in which separate lighting companies operate, these are Enea Lighting Sp. z o.o. and Energa Lighting Sp. z o.o. It is these separate companies that have the status of end-user and buy energy to provide lighting for public places, squares and roads in municipalities. For these companies, the absence of a preferential price for the second half of 2019 is financially not problematic as they buy energy for road lighting and calculate it at the same price in the costs of the services provided to these municipalities. However, more than 500 municipalities will suffer tangible financial losses. Therefore, I propose to supplement the catalogue of entities which may apply for preferential energy prices in the second half of 2019 for energy companies that are the final customer within the meaning of the Act of 28 December 2018 amending the excise duty Act and certain other laws that provide lighting services to local authorities of public places, squares and roads. The introduction of this amendment will ensure respect for the constitutional principle of equality between actors vis-à-vis the law. This means the equal protection of each legal entity and the legal rules of the State, ensuring equal treatment of entities in the legal process and the prohibition of unlawful discrimination by law, in particular, as I said, this concerns the issue of local self-government. There would be inequality and therefore, as chairman of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, in agreement with the Union of Polish Cities, I submit this amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u380	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would also like to inform you that you have tabled proposals of a legislative nature in writing by Senator Piotr Zientarski. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? No. Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on National Economy and Innovation to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill will be held at the end of the meeting. Messages, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u381	Message one. The joint meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the consideration of the amendments tabled at the 80th Senate meeting to the Act amending the Act on Pension Supply to Police Officers, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Intelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, Central Anti-corruption Office, Border Guard, State Security Service, State Fire Department, Customs and Criminal Service and their families and some other laws will take place tomorrow, on 2 August, at 8.50 am in room No 182. Message two. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances on the examination of applications submitted at the 80th Senate meeting to the Act amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and certain other laws Message three. I kindly inform you that the second meeting of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators Committee will be held on 2 August at 8.40 p.m. in room 179. Message four. Meeting of the Health Commission on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate on the Law amending the Law in connection with the implementation of the solutions in the area of eHealth Message five. The joint meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the examination of the proposals submitted in the course of the debate on the Law amending the Law on the Promotion of the Development of Telecommunications Services and Networks and on certain other acts of "Senatian Print No 1225 " will take place tomorrow at 8.20 am in room 217. Message six. The joint meeting of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions on the examination of the proposals submitted in the course of the debate on the Law amending the Law of Criminal Procedure and certain other laws, Senate printing No 1243, will take place tomorrow at 8.40 in room 182. Message seven. The joint meeting of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate to the draft law amending the law on road traffic, Senate printing No 1189, will take place tomorrow at 8.30 am in room 217. Message eight. The meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Laws and Petitions on the consideration of amendments tabled at the 80th Senate meeting to the Act amending the Law on Public Use and Volunteering will take place tomorrow at 8.20 am in room 182. Message nine. The meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the examination of applications submitted at the 80th Senate meeting to the Act amending certain laws in order to reduce regulatory burdens, will take place tomorrow at 8.30 a.m. in room 176. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-01-senat-83-2.u382	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm declaring a recess until 9:00 tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the sitting at 21 minutes 48]]
