ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u1	Resume session. I would like to call Paul Rychlik and Martin Duszek to the secretaries of today's proceedings. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Members Paweł Rychlik and Marcin Duszek. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u2	I would like to inform you that today there will be a meeting of the Committee of Inquiry to examine the regularity and legality of the actions and the negligence and omissions of public authorities and institutions in ensuring the revenue of the Treasury in respect of the tax on goods and services and excise duties between December 2007 and November 2015 - at 3 p.m. 10.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u3	Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 39 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on the Polish Geological Agency (print No 3378). I ask the Minister of Environment, Henryk Kowalczyk, to present the reasons for the bill. There's no minister? I would like to ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment, Mr Mariusz Orion Jędrysk, to present the justification for the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u4	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law submitted by the government is based on the needs of the state above all. Well, it is very important to carry out the tasks of the state geological service - here, in the act, this catalogue has been extended - and basically in Poland there is no properly functioning system in this area. It is a temporary system which was organized in 1985 by the Central Office of Geology by Prime Minister Messner, when General Jaruzelski ruled Poland. This system with some modifications, minor, is still functioning today. In 2001, it was legally even ensured that within two years a body must be established carrying out the tasks of the State Geological Service, but temporarily entrusted to the State Geological Institute. In 1985, when the Central Bureau of Geology was dissolved, 350 people worked there. 49 units helped him carry out his tasks. They were geological companies, geological combinations, geophysical enterprises, scientific units. It's basically a complete mess. And in fact, you can say, since then no geologically significant deposits have been discovered in Poland. You could say that what we're based on today is the discoveries of the '60s, '70s. - that was the time when the most geological studies were conducted. This fall led to the fact that... an example is the number of deposit drillings for hydrocarbons: in recent years, we drill 10 times less than this happened e.g. in the '70s or '80s. This means that we need to implement this reform right now. As I said, it was granted by law in 2001, but it was not implemented for budgetary reasons. The Government of Law and Justice joined this task in 2005. The draft law on the establishment of the Polish Geological Service was agreed within the framework of inter-ministerial arrangements. However, the government mission ended faster, so we returned to this 8 years later, along the way, because it is supposed to be an executive agency, changing its name - it will not be the Polish Geological Service, but the Polish Geological Agency. In fact, it is the same bill with minor modifications. There are no financial implications for the budget. If anything, they will be positive, because the assignment of the tasks of the State Geological Service to the State Geological Institute, which is a scientific unit, does not allow the fulfilment of certain requirements. The system is very complicated, difficult, opaque and, what is much to say here, also corrupt. Therefore, we also have the situation that in practice the contractor and the contractor are the same entity, that is, the State Geological Institute. This is the situation. unacceptable, that's why we're going to change it right now, and I'm counting on the support of all clubs and parliamentary circles here. What are our expectations for this reform? First of all, the expectations are that there will finally be an individual who will implement the state's raw material policy. To this day, this policy is not formally available, but I would like to assure you that the Council of Ministers' standing committee has already adopted the draft raw material policy of the state. We are probably the last country of the European Union to adopt such a strategy paper, although in 2006 we were the first to prepare this document. The name of this policy then is geological-surrogate policy. The raw material policy of the state is the nine pillars, and one of them, the important one we are discussing here today, is institutional change. This is about carrying out tasks in such a context that we have an industry that invests in the search, wants to invest, but there is no support for the area of knowledge above all, there is no good investment environment. We have local government, which is not connected, in counties and voivodships and then government administration. We also have a science that is really weak, and especially has fallen in recent years. Since the National Geological Institute also performs the tasks of the State Geological Service, this scientific part has completely fallen, but at the same time this scientific part is subject to the needs of the State. This can't be right. We are therefore creating this unit, which will support administration, will support industry and will benefit from science. We need to strengthen this science, and that's why we're releasing it. At the National Geological Institute we have two verticals: a pawn of science and a pawn of service. And this section of the service will, in fact, be turned into an executive agency, because it can carry out the tasks of the state, not a scientific entity. I can't imagine we're gonna charge a scientific unit, for example. the tasks of the Customs Service or the tasks of the Police. Of course, this is an entity that has to coordinate all activities in an executive manner. Ladies and gentlemen, one example. Well, in the years 2010, 2011, until 2015 as a result of these concession processes, which took place without the help of such an executive agency... This has led to the fact that we already have four international arbitrations. These arbitrations are multi-billion-dollar claims against the State Treasury, completely unjustified. If such an executive agency existed and supported the government at that time, supported it with knowledge, controlled it a little bit, there would certainly be no such arbitration. Today we face the problem of government support by such an executive agency, so arbitration can be won. I think we're gonna win it. It's very late, but I think we can do it. If this agency does not arise, there will be no such support, the state will still be defenceless, then these arbitrations will grow like mushrooms after the rain. We are probably the only country with raw materials that are based on raw materials, because Poland is very rich in raw materials, very diverse geologically, which does not have this type of agency. Please note that in most countries we have either executive agencies or even companies that carry out the tasks of the state in the field of geology. A scientific unit is a complete exception to us. This is - I repeat all the time - only a temporary solution and it took a lot of effort, courage and thought about how to do that so that no one from the National Geological Institute would lose his job to make it soft. And that's assured. The National Geological Institute remains a science unit, no one loses their jobs, the State Geological Agency is separated from the State Geological Institute. So it's about you finally doing your job. These tasks are very many. We'll probably still be able to talk about it. That's it right now. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u5	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Mieczysław Mizga, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u6	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club vis-à-vis the government draft law on the Polish Geological Agency, print no.3378. The draft law on the Polish Geological Agency, hereinafter referred to as the PAG, is the answer to the gap that has occurred for many years in the organizational arrangement of the state in the field of the institution responsible for carrying out tasks in the field of geology. Thus, it assumes the creation of an executive agency, a legal person who, in his capacity as a host of Polish raw materials, will perform broadly understood tasks of the state in the field of geology. The Agency's priority tasks will be to supervise the country's raw material base, including the resources needed to meet energy needs. It is worth noting that the basis for the creation of the Polish Geological Agency is the diagnosis of the way in which the country's tasks in the field of geology have been carried out, which has shown that the structure and mechanisms that are not adapted to the needs of the state have been met. The newly established executive unit will undoubtedly be the first to safeguard the interests of the State in documenting, protecting and extracting resources. It will also guarantee access to geological resources for the Polish economy and Polish society. All this will imply a technological advantage and increase the competitiveness of Polish entrepreneurs on the global market. Another very important task assigned to the newly created entity will be to support the rehabilitation and development of land transformed as a result of geological works, e.g. to safeguard and eliminate illegal drilling, to expand the raw material base and to support the development of forms of protection of geological heritage. The primary objective of the PAG action is to carry out the State's tasks in the field of geology in the field of research, recognition and documentation of the country's geological construction, development of deposit prospects, access to mineral resources and groundwater and earth heat, as well as the development and protection of these structures and resources. It should be noted that these tasks will only be partially the same as those which are currently being carried out or commissioned to other entities in the framework of the tasks of the State Geological Service. Particular attention should be paid to the need to implement the state's raw material policy by the PAG in order to verify the resources of fossil deposits. The verification of characteristics will enable the assessment of fossil deposits in terms of technical and economic attractiveness. This task is intended to facilitate the exploitation or exploitation of the deposit by operators of economically justified activities, including reducing environmental damage and ensuring the rational extraction and management of fossil fuels. In addition, the contested law will allow foreign cooperation in matters belonging to its jurisdiction, it will be able to represent Poland in relations with organisations of other countries, promote knowledge of geology, establish cooperation with local entities and entrepreneurs, carry out information activities on investment opportunities in Polish natural resources and support Polish entrepreneurs abroad. This is public acceptance of geological and mining investments through incentives for the development of municipalities. Poland is the world's largest producer of mineral raw materials such as copper, silver, zinc, lead, rare metals as well as coal and many chemical and rock raw materials. This puts it at the forefront of European countries in terms of wealth in deposits, so the introduction of such solutions to the national investment environment, which will ensure an increase in the raw materials base of the country, and as a result will improve the raw materials and energy security of the Republic of Poland, remains an important challenge. At present, the problem is not the lack of modern technologies or resources, and mismanagement [[♪ The bell ♪]] the raw materials base of the country, so important are also the tasks of acquiring, collecting, processing, recording, archiving, protecting and sharing geological information, keeping a central geological archive, as well as conducting and updating...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u7	Draw close to the end, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u8	...Geological database. On the other hand, the draft law in the article. 14 provides for a financial support mechanism for projects to develop new methods and technologies to the extent set out in Article. 13...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u9	Draw close to the end, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u10	I would like to point out here that this is a very necessary law and that the draft law aims to create a state legal entity established to improve the management of geological resources and ensure effective raw materials policy of Poland. The establishment of this institution is absolutely necessary...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u11	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u12	...and thus, justified and falls into the protection of both the interests of the State Treasury and the social interests.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u13	Mr President, you have already exceeded your time by one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u14	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support the government draft law on the Polish Geological Agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u15	Thank you very much, sir. And please watch your time. Please, Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u16	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Although the project, as the justification states, concerns the separation of the Polish Geological Agency from the State Geological Institute - State Research Institute, which is intended to ensure the establishment of a system of efficient management of raw materials of the country, in particular the verification of the resources of fossil deposits, the selection of deposits in a strategic sense and the introduction of their effective protection, the ladies and gentlemen, but this law does not implement this, there is simply no such thing. The project contains numerous legislative shortcomings and records contrary to Polish legislation and logic. An example can be taken of the fact that the designer has not identified the seat of the institution to be set up, although the presumption is significant, and allows it to be headed by, for example. Member or Senator. It is said that only two people in the country, including one retired, meet the criteria of the future head of this agency. First of all, this project disintegrates the Polish geological service, separating the tasks of the geological service from the hydrogeological service, which is absolutely incredible, as if we had separated the land from the water, and each one was to do so separately, leaving such a hull of hydrogeological service only at the State Geological Institute, which in fact is doomed to existence. The bill does not solve any problem, but creates new ones. Does not solve e.g. an important problem of the chronicity of concession proceedings, and sometimes there is an impression, and it is reported by numerous experts, also by the union environments of geologists from the state institute, that this chronicity is intentionally introduced only for the purpose of disintegrating and destroying the Polish geological service, so that this place is created in this place. It's new. At the same time, the project does not make it easier for entrepreneurs, state institutions and citizens, including workers. It creates another bureaucratic structure, although parallel to the existing PIG, and increases financial expenditure. The adoption of this law will deepen the chaos of the geological administration and the destruction of the functioning of the state geological and hydrogeological service. Moreover, the current problems of the state geologic service and the collapse of the geological administration in the Ministry of Environment documented by internal ministerial audit and the widespread criticism of entrepreneurs, including the state, raises the question whether this general destruction is not intentionally caused, is not the creation of facts made to force the formation of the Polish Geological Agency perceived as a mythical prescription for everything. It is a harmful act to a large extent. In the explanatory memorandum, we are dealing with a parallel world that is completely separate from the legislative matter that we have here. Of course, you could lean on it in detail, but I think it would be too much respect for this legal bubble to analyze it in detail. Of course we've heard, we know what's not in this bill. What's wrong? In fact, a return to Bierut's decree, which caused the creation of the Central Bureau of Geology. Moreover, this fascination with the central geologist of the country today was also evident in his justification. It is also visible, for example, in the slogans that are cited on numerous pickets and protests of the union environments, including the Solidarityism, which cannot be accused of being unfavorable to the government. I have allowed myself to record the passwords - today also the picket is announced: "Not for the Sovietization of Polish geology," "PAK - Communist Central Office of Geology," "PRL" and the Soviet block model for the law on the Polish Geological Agency." That's what it looks like, unfortunately. You could say this is another PiS legislative bubble, ladies and gentlemen. But let's not let it fool us. This is a cynical manipulation, in this madness, following Shakespeare, is a method, a method that allows us to hide the real purpose of this creation, which is to secure the interests of a narrow group of kittens. [[♪ The bell ♪]] actually and privatize de facto, but for a prayer such a more communist, Polish geology and Polish raw materials policy, which is not available, which is waiting for the emperor who will have it. For today we are creating a tool for the raw material policy of a country that is not there, because what Minister Jędrysek says is a collection of godly wishes...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u17	You are very close to the end, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u18	...from leaflets promoted at meetings. On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, I request that this bill be rejected at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u19	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Sitarski, Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u20	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz club15 on the draft law on the establishment of the Polish Geological Agency. I very much appreciate the work of the Minister, I very much value this commitment to the protection of natural resources, to work to stabilise all elements related to our country's natural resources, to the issue of concessions, to what has happened in our country quite recently, and to what has also been solved by the Minister. Here, you have to admit, there was commitment. I did not have any special comments in spite of the discussion, as it was a discussion which led to a positive conclusion of the case, e.g. for coal mines in Silesia, where these concessions were extended for the right time and companies could function. However, Minister, this is where doubts arise. With this concept, perhaps the idea is right, but execution should not exactly look that way. Let's start with finance. Namely, it is worrying to me, moving towards reducing fiscal burdens for mining in general, the fact that it is practically concerned about the finances of existing mining plants. According to the provisions of Chapter 4 of the project: Financial economy and assets, PAK revenue are among others. revenue from fees referred to in Section VII of the Geological and Mining Law. These are fees such as: operating fee for excavating fossils from deposit, concession fee for exploration or recognition of deposits, excavation fee, additional fee for carrying out activities with gross violation of the terms of the concession, increased fee for carrying out activities without the required concession. At present, income from all of the above charges is 60% the income of the municipality in which the activity is carried out and 40% the income of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. And for this reason practically from this National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, the project takes half of the finance, and these are powerful amounts. That's not enough. The other structures are being preserved. Here the Minister has expressed his opinion that the scientific part is failing in the existing institutions. That's the sentence from your speech. You should ask why. Why was part of the country's scientific geology allowed to fall for three years? Why didn't you fight to make it better? I believe that the current tools for the recognition of deposits, the current tools for the functioning of geology, the current tools for managing our national goods do not require the creation of another institution with the previous ones, which you believe are inefficient. It's not exactly how it's supposed to be. We must defend ourselves against one thing, we must defend ourselves against fiscal burdens for mining, because practically it is mining and coal, and copper will fall on the functioning of this agency. That is not enough, in this way we will block the possibility of reducing fiscalisation, the fiscal burden imposed on each tonne of coal, on the output. Of course, the copper tax has been reduced by 15%. , but occasionally, due to special income, but has not been withdrawn. Only with 15% they have withdrawn, and then all the fiscal burdens for mining are there. Minister! I appeal to you to use the current state and to improve it, not to make another move, so that in total three or four institutions manage the goods of our deposits. It's just an appeal. Now yes, there has also been a letter to me, I do not hide, from the national secretariat of natural resources and environmental protection, in which many points have been written, there have been doubts about why this project is subject to procedure. I don't think this state is perfect. But this too radical decision by the Minister to set up an agency is, however, also drawing too much money at the expense of mining. We can't let that happen, so I suggest we move this to the committee and work out a model that doesn't increase. [[♪ The bell ♪]] expenditures, resources and resources from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management to carry out this work in order to protect the resources of the Polish state. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u21	Thank you, sir. Mr Krystian Jarubas made his statement in writing. Please, Mrs Monica Rosa, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u22	Mrs. Marshalkini! Minister! High Izbo! This project we're talking about today has already had a long history. I hope this story doesn't have a happy finale in the form of setting up this agency. The idea is criticised on many sides. Geologists believe that the resort of the environment wants to destroy the National Geological Institute that has been operating for years. The Polish Geological Agency, which you invented by the Minister, is actually throwing money into the mud and creating a completely new political creation. The new law, which assumes that the tasks of the PIG will be taken over by the Polish Geological Agency, is really controversial. This institution is also to take over the assets and machines of the geological institution. A tool is created to implement Polish raw materials policy, only that Polish raw materials policy does not exist, except for a few pages of the presentation and report. The new agency is expected to absorb PLN 431 million in the first year of operation. The current entity, the geological institute, absorbs 1/4 of these measures. In the OSR and in the justification for this draft law, you stress that the current institute does not carry out information, education and promotional activities that would enable their economic development and lead to a deepening of knowledge, awareness-raising. I am not convinced that 300 million PLN is the amount that really needs to be spent on educational and information activities and raising public awareness. The Polish agency will not give anything that would no longer be available today, except for additional expenditure and the creation of a new political institution. It's like separating a private farm. The impact assessment also states what concerns the mining municipalities that they have to face a total loss of about PLN 42 million, which according to the 2017 figures account for 30% of the operating fees for the extraction of hydrocarbons. These measures under the Act are one of the components from which the new agency will be maintained. You have had a large rotation of the directors of the agencies, and also the particular situation concerns financing, because let us remind you that the institute is not financed by its own budget, but by the resources for tasks that are commissioned by the Minister, which must be accepted by him and which are often not accepted by him, so that the institution has to operate on the basis of loans by carrying out the tasks of the minister commissioned by you. This is a curial situation combined with protests from various backgrounds, especially from geologists. It seems that at the end of this term, you have already been able to give up the creation of further political institutions, and we therefore request that this project be rejected at first reading.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u23	Thank you very much, Member. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. As the first Member, Mr Jan Klawiter, a non-attached Member. One minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u24	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question. Why does the projector deny the Polish Prime Minister the prerogatives to appoint the president of the PAG? Second question. Why is there no specific location of the Agency's seat specified in the Act? Is it true that it is planned to move its headquarters to Lower Silesia? Is it planned to transfer the PIG buildings to other state institutions? And a third. What will be the role and tasks of the country's leading geologist after the creation of the PAG? And what will be the relationship between the president of the PAG and the main geologist of the country? The bill doesn't specify that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u25	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Alicja Chybicka, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u26	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Is there really no more urgent need for environmental protection than the creation of such agencies? It is the money that will be taken from this fund in the years to come, while Poles die from the poisoned environment. As far as the results of the research are concerned, for example in our common Wrocław, the level of pollination PM2.5 is practically hopeless almost every day. You have to buy for kindergartens, schools, air purifiers. We should exchange ovens, etc. You know that much better than I do. What is the point of setting up another institution to deal with geological issues at the expense of environmental protection? 'Cause the truth is, it's gonna be at the expense of this. Before you see any profits from the discovery of new deposits, [[♪ The bell ♪]] many Poles will not be in this world. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u27	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Sitarski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u28	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask a question in addition to the speech. Is it true that the creation of an agency, the acquisition of funds from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management will stop, block the possibility of reducing fiscal burdens, tax burdens on coal mines and coal mining in Silesia? Minister Wójcik from Silesia is also here. Here we have a programme for Silesia, which provided for changes in forms of taxation. I have a very big concern and the question, at the same time, whether the creation of another agency - from the talks I have conducted, shows that there is a great deal of concern and that there is such a likelihood - will eliminate the possibility of reducing taxes when it comes to coal in Poland at the moment. I would like to get an answer that, however, this will not stop this process that we want to launch, because 34 types of taxes are imposed on each tonne of coal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u29	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u30	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The raw materials policy of Poland is from the perspective of Wielkopolska Eastern Poland a disaster of raw materials policy of Poland. For what do we see? For more than 3 years we have been demanding, and it is very consistently we demand that in the area of the eastern Wielkopolska there be a discovery, already the last discovery of brown coal, in Ościsłow. The appeals that we address to Prime Minister Morawiecki do not have any effect, the appeals with which we address the Minister of the Environment do not have any effect. The Prime Minister coming to Konin, the heart of the East Wielkopolska, informs that the discovery will rise and then nothing happens. Besides, the Prime Minister says that, in the light of his knowledge, this discovery will rise. By the way, how does he have that kind of knowledge if the government doesn't make a political decision to secure and launch another discovery? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I appeal, Mr. Main Geologist of the country: do something to make the discovery of Occlusally arise.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u31	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u32	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Dear Young People at the Gallery! My question: Why was it not decided on a cheaper and more efficient solution to reform geology, namely the transformation of the State Institute of Geology into a government agency? The draft act on PAG will lead to the breakdown of one institution into three entities with a completely different funding regime and without institutional communication. It will deepen the chaos in geology instead of bringing the promised benefits. Next to the National Geological Institute, a government agency, a PAG, will be established and the tasks of the State Hydrogeological Service will be carried out further by the PIG. And second question. Is it not contrary to Article to combining the functions of the President of the PAG with that of a Member provided for in the Act? 103 Constitution of the Republic of Poland? Does the designer have legal opinions on this subject? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u33	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u34	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'd have two short questions. It goes on, among other things. on the seat of the Polish Geological Agency. So far it is not regulated, it is to be regulated in the statutes, but I would appeal for reason and thinking about Poland as a whole. We are talking about the decentralisation of state institutions as Kukiz. It is a model that has worked well in Western Europe. It does not have to be as it is today, that all agencies and institutions are in Warsaw. It is also very expensive, and extremely inefficient. It seems to me that the Polish Geological Agency should be located where there is the most carbon, i.e. in Lublin, for example. In Chelm. This makes multiple sense because we are developing this region, a region that is far behind, and at the same time we are close to coal. And second question. Why did we take over the minister's powers? [[♪ The bell ♪]] the environment in the field of supervision of the Polish Geological Agency, and why could it not be possible to dismiss the President even if he is inefficient? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u35	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u36	Thank you, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I wanted to be the chairman of the task force. polar research ask about the ability of this agency to create the activity of the Polish state in the geological space, but beyond the borders of the country. If this isn't the institution, then... I think it is a good opportunity to ask what Polish country has the ability to do this kind of activity in agreement with other countries, other international organisations and other institutions or even companies. As the climate changes and the northern transition melts, access to geological deposits, deposits that are under the waters, and other resources that are at the poles will be more open. Therefore, my question is: How is the Polish state prepared to be active in this space? Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u37	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u38	Minister, it seems that you want to reform the geological service in conflict with the environment, and perhaps with the whole environment, to the extent that you've even made something like literature in the second cycle. There is such a report of your activities as the country's chief geologist, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Environment. I would have taken over all of this, Minister, because the content contained in it seems to require some explanation and cause your person, as the author of the reform, to become credible, a reform which, in the light of the project, is full of confusion, complexity and, unfortunately, leads you to suspect that it is an attempt to wring a nest. This should not be the case, these things should be unambiguous, explained, must be known where the seat is. That's what it is. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's weird that we're setting up a government agency without defining its headquarters. See - we use the phrase: headquarters, after all, this is some slang, misplaced art somewhere. 41. Look at this, this is legal sloppyness and lack of thought about how to treat a serious state institution that you want to create. Central may be seedy, you know, central may be phoney, but...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u39	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u40	...this is not how structural solutions can be written.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u41	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u42	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I also refer to the fact that at the time. 10 another demonstration of opposition to the ideas of Minister Jędrysk in the performance and trade unionists and geologists and experts was announced, I wanted to ask, because it is not only the second circulation, it is also an official circulation, as the Minister refers to the slogans that appear in the official circulation, on these manifestations, for example.: No to the Private Geological Agency, PAG will devour taxpayers' money, State Geological Service is not a private farm. This is addressed to you, Minister. How do you relate to this? And one more thing: Saint Barbara, defend Polish geology from sick minds... no, I'm sorry, ideas. How do you relate to this? And is it true what appears in the information, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that this is an attempt to create a quasi-private institution and transfer it to the home town of Wrocław, as evidenced by the actions you have done so far as a minister? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u43	Thank you very much. And I ask the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Environment of Minister Mariusz Orion Jędryska to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u44	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to address many of the questions that have been asked. Many of them repeated themselves, so I will try to answer them together. Ladies and gentlemen, the division, the separation of the National Geological Institute from a geological agency or a geological service is what has been planned for a long time. This is not the idea of this government or the previous one. That was the idea right when the Central Geological Office was liquidated. Please note that the tasks of the state in the field of geology were assigned to the Geological Council before World War II and supported from the scientific point of view, this was to be supported by the State Geological Institute. That's all. This was not a perfect solution, and it was later realized. The biggest geological discoveries in Poland were when there were many individuals. It was raided in the '90s in the early '90s. The infrastructure was completely destroyed. We need to rebuild this slowly. And that's not going to be done by a scientific institution, that's not what a scientific institution can do. This must be done in the same way as in many countries, including Europe. Financing. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not true that there's any extra money. Mr President, no extra money, no burden on geology, mining. Today, 20% of the operating fee goes to the so-called. Geological subaccount in the national environmental fund. And now this money, exactly the same as the mining operating fee, will go not to the national fund - it is a very complicated system, so complicated and difficult that it leads to waste of resources - only it will be managed by a geological agency. And it's exactly the same money, not one more tax. It's just going to be done by expert geologists who aren't in the fund right now. Chronicity of concession proceedings. Ladies and gentlemen, this duration hasn't changed in years. And why is there such a chronicity? That's because there's no backup of any unit. We have no right to pass on any documentation to the scientific unit. She won't support us. The geological agency will in many cases be able to... It is not enough that when there are reports of wells given by concession holders, we are not even able to say whether these wells were actually made. No one can verify that. Who, scientists? How? The geological agency is able to go and e.g. make a hole next to it. So this is finally taking care of the interests of the state. What kind of private? Polish Geological Agency. We do politics, you say, because there's no raw material policy... And what have you done in terms of raw materials policy? Why the Civic Platform destroyed what the Government of Law and Justice prepared in 2006 and 2007, i.e. the policy project or the launch of action on the creation of geological-sourcing policy? It's been dropped, nothing's been done. We did it, the Permanent Committee of the Council of Ministers accepted. If anyone thinks it doesn't, go ahead, I'm able to give you a printed raw material policy project right now. These are very good solutions and please evaluate them, familiarize yourself with them. If you are able to do so, do so, and if you are not, just support it. Because it's in the interests of Poland. By 2050 planning, in turn: dozens of implementation programmes, a huge, important document showing how to reduce the risk of supply of raw materials for economic, social purposes in Poland. That's what this is all about, because there's a financial surplus, and the state lives out of this surplus. An investor who is willing to invest is coming, he will invest even in worse Polish deposits if we lower the risk. That's what I'm talking about. The geological agency is supposed to reduce this risk. And that's what's gonna happen. Today's risk is administration, today's risk is that there is no geological service. We don't have a state geological service. There is no individual named State Geological Service. There is a team of tasks recorded in the Geological Law, which is temporarily assigned to a scientific unit. How can you do that? The scientific unit is carrying out the tasks of the state - this must be some kind of joke. Someone says destruction. No, it's finally creation. The destruction took place in the 1980s. - Totally. Of course, it was different before. We had an occupation, it wasn't a free country. They did what they did, but these discoveries were. The deposits that were left in Lublin were mentioned here by one of the Members. Here you go, deposits discovered before the war, productive carbon indicated by Professor Samsonowicz, but then drilling documented mainly in the 1970s. 120 boreholes were made in a certain area. The deposits are documented in a category suitable for the application for extraction. What's going on? About 2011 comes a company which is licensed again for geological recognition and approved for it geological documentation based on how much? Seven extra holes. This is a misunderstanding, isn't it? It follows from this later on, as a result of this action, Mrs Lenartowicz, I am also talking to you, and from this action there is now a threat of arbitration with multi-billion-dollar claims, multi-billion-dollar claims. The geological agency isn't gonna let that happen. And maybe that's what you're trying to do, to lose these arbitrations. A similar situation is in the west of Poland, where deposits were largely recognized under very strange circumstances made available and in this way we have the situation that there is arbitration again. This arbitration is still behind the Civic Platform, including multi-billion-dollar claims. And what does it turn out to be? Among those who cooperated in this area were the former director of the National Geological Institute, former President of KGHM, for which it was a reserve deposit, former Deputy Minister in the Government of the SLD, former Head, Chairman of the Scientific Council of the State Geological Institute, who serves as the State Geological Service. Is that what this is about? So you can do that? And this arbitration against the Polish state was requested by this State Geological Institute. What's it like? How is it that the National Geological Institute is suing the Minister supervising him to court because he refused to approve the geological documentation for which the National Geological Institute has not legally won? Well, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, And in court at first instance, the National Geological Institute loses. It's happening now, but it's coming from your actions, ladies and gentlemen. So let me fix you. This needs to be fixed. That's what I'm talking about. You're finally finding out. I'm handing over your raw materials policy. Please familiarize yourself with this and really support, supplement, please, we are waiting. If you have comments - no draft law is perfect, that is why we are going to the Sejm - please make proposals that we will be able to see at the committee's meeting, we will possibly be able to accept these amendments. I'm very open to it. I'm just denying insinuations, literally insinuations. You are being manipulated by people who are interested in keeping chaos, so that the administration of sleazy acts, so that there are no connections between the county, voivodeship and government administration, so that there will be theft of deposits, because it is. After all, today we have four arbitrations resulting from the activities of the geological administration practically in the years 2010 to 2015. What's this? These are multi-billion-dollar claims, billions, and I don't want to exchange that amount, completely unjustified. Please note the depreciation of science. Science hasn't been left now, not in the last three years... That's not true. In 2011, the Geological and Mining Law and the amendments to other laws that you adopted, the PO voted... This led to the situation that the state scientific unit, the State Geological Institute, became a monopoly in the performance of the tasks of the State Geological Service. And what happened? The whole classification went down because the money came in easy, you can take it. Give it up and get away from us - that's what it looks like today. And since you're giving money... Of what? What's the money here for the task, about a hundred and a half million zlotys, as it is now? There's gonna be a little extra money coming out of other activities related to geological information trading, right? Because there's no security here at all. We cannot buy today, the National Geological Institute will not buy geological information from the outside, and sometimes it is necessary, including the foreign one that one of the Members asked about. So, ladies and gentlemen, this is about finally making the economy work. With the huge resources Poland has, huge geological diversity, powerful potential for untanked storage... They could've used it. Each mining geologist implies up to three to six jobs. Why shouldn't we develop it? Why can't Lublin build mines today? 'Cause there's a lot of unwarranted demands against the state. The same in the western part of Poland when it comes to metals. Why did some search concessions in 2011 and 2012 or earlier, let's say that in 2008, they were issued for many, many years? This is ridiculous. And no one's controlling it. How will you take the raw material policy and look at today's system of financing the tasks of the State Geological Service, in fact the State Geological Institute... Try to get into it and figure it out. I'll give it to you, here you go. You'll see what it looks like. Is this a good system? Each query interrupts the circulation of documents. And again, and again. And it's going on. When we want to find out exactly what the money's going to do and then settle it, it just becomes impossible to do it. There were many other questions. I've got three minutes. I'll try to answer them again. This isn't breaking up the State Geological Institute. Finally, we create such a strong scientific and executive leg. Scientists can't do the State's job because they're scientists. I'm a professor myself. Believe me, it can't be combined. It has to be only - this is the best solution, checked in the world - the executive agency. We want to make profits, we will have, the state will have profits and society will have profits, above all local ones. Notice how the social support for geological and mining investments is falling in Poland today. Why? Because there is, firstly, no full knowledge of what will happen, and secondly, there is no proper financing, compensation, compensation, infrastructure development. It's not coordinated. The geological agency will support this. If you have any comments on how to extend the tasks of a geological agency, then let's do it. Come to the committee meeting, file a motion. Why not? I will, of course, only give an opinion as a representative of the government, but I am very open. Let's do it so that Poland has a host, a coordinator, but also a little guardian of natural resources. It's not here today. This has been brought to such a pathetic situation at the moment. This is the fall after 2008 in particular. This is a tragedy. Who screwed up the whole slate program? After all, as far as shale gas is concerned, I issued the first concessions in 2006, 2007, mainly in 2007. And what happened? Let me put it this way: give a few concessions to different companies, away from each other, you search for something, then you have a chance for another concession, but we already have a geological service as a state unit, not a scientific unit, and we have a new geological and mining law. And what happened? That went to the trash at the end of 2007 and all possible concessions were issued in chambul, even those which should not be issued. It doesn't make any sense at all. So? No one's been looking. The shale program was collapsed by the government of Donald Tusk. That's when it happened, that's when it fell. Ladies and gentlemen, this gas is, this oil is, you have to reach for it. If there was an agency or a geological service, there would be no such thing. So these are very simple solutions, not reaching for any new money, but giving money to a state legal person, a specialist who will manage it better, which is not in Poland. There were other questions. Ladies and gentlemen, there was a report, someone impersonated... I wrote this report, but in 2007, when I completed my mission, when I was the country's leading geologist for the first time. Please reach for it. This is some kind of fake document, someone signed my name. Ladies and gentlemen, this case has been reported to the D.A.'s office. [[So?]] [[When?]] When? Oh, about six months ago, more. Ma'am, I'm not discussing this. Come out here and ask. [[♪ The bell ♪]] PAG will be the cost of environmental protection? At what cost? It's about to create better environmental protection. Ladies and gentlemen, there may be 50,000 in Poland. illegal openings, half of the aggregate is illegally extracted. 100% Amber comes from strange sources, because there is not a single mining license. You're the ones who changed the law so much that practically the whole amber has to be imported, but it's gone, but it's from smuggling or illegal extraction, destroying the environment. It's your doing, it's your changes that led to it. Ladies and gentlemen, let's stop politics because it's not going to get much out of this, just come and join this change. I am open to cooperation in this area. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u45	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u46	High Seym! Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I will present my position on the government draft law on the Polish Geological Agency, print no. 3378. I'll start with Art. 44 draft law, which best reflects the purpose of the government project. The maximum limit for PAG expenditure resulting from the financial effect of the entry into force of this Act is over PLN 2 billion between 2019 and 2028. There is no funding for raises for teachers or rehabilitation benefits for disabled people, but there are 2 billion PLN in favour of the new institution. The remuneration for the President must be, the remuneration for the deputies must also be. A grain to the grain and a billion distributed. The environmental resort pointed out that the current legal regulations do not allow effective conduct of state raw materials policy and effective supervision of geological activities. That's an unusual conclusion. For the last three and a half years, when he was in charge of the PiS, there hasn't been any supervision over the geological activities? So what's the environmental ministry been doing for the last three and a half years? Why wasn't there proper supervision? It can be concluded that the newly created institution is once again used to fill well-paid posts with right-wing and fair party activists. The position of Rafał Janica, head of the National Trade Union of Geologists PIG-PIB, deserves attention. I will quote this position: the rise of the PAG means a fall for us. People, equipment, assets and databases will be exported there. Geologists are not philologists. There's not enough paper and pencil here. Need equipment, labs, computers, etc. If all this goes away, the institute will fall. It's gonna have huge consequences because the institute is giving independent expertise. If such an institution falls, we will be doomed to buy expertise and we will never know what interests our contractor represents. Our strategic security will be compromised. Against government solutions was protested under the building of the Ministry of the Environment, stressing that there could be no agreement to take over the state money and assets of the State Geological Institute. The creation of a new agency means simply throwing money into the mud and creating a new political creation. In the first year of activity it is to consume a total of PLN 431 million. The functioning of the existing entity costs only 1/4 of these measures. Against the background of the waste of public funds aimed at achieving the dreams mentioned in the explanatory memorandum of the project, the PSL-ED club is strongly negative about the government project.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u47	State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment Mariusz Orion Jędrysek: I'd just like, if I may, to hand over to your marshal a set of documents about. raw material policy... Then put it here, yes. State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment Mariusz Orion Jędrysek: ...which does not exist of course, but here we have - and I am able to pass this on to each of you - a document on. State raw material policy, published in the journal "Policy of Raw Materials'. Let's work together. Thank you. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal at the next session of the Sejm. We proceed with the examination of item 33. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Family and Care Code and some other laws (prints Nos 3254 and 3254-A). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Michał Wójcik to present the justification of the bill along with the self-correction.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u48	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present our position regarding the draft Family and Care Code Act and some other laws, Seym Printing Nos 3254 and 3254-A. Ladies and gentlemen! We have conducted a detailed analysis of a number of legal acts, where the child's welfare has emerged in the background. In doing all the legislative work in the last three years, we have carried out many such laws, which in the background had just the need to safeguard the welfare of the child. And these regulations, which I allow you to present today, are also primarily aimed at safeguarding the child's welfare, strengthening it. In this connection, we deal with a number of important issues in three basic documents: primarily in a material sense in the Family and Care Code, in a formal sense in the Civil Procedure Code, where it appears, among others. one of the separate proceedings, and in the Civil Court Costs Act. The first issue that needs to be discussed is the so-called issue. Instant alimony. This is where we are talking about the child's welfare, an extremely important issue. The idea is that children's money should be paid immediately to secure the material needs of their children, so that it is not dependent on long - term conduct. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions apply: ordinary procedures may take several months, and even in extreme cases a few years. The point is to get these measures to the rightful person, the child, as soon as possible. That's why there's an immediate maintenance institution. Of course, the fundamental issue is how high these child support should be. We've established that. If that's the question, I'm going to try to answer exactly, on a quota basis. In any case, an algorithm has been established which takes into account several elements that have standardised the size of child support: number of children, fertility rate, minimum wage. The algorithm allowed us to calculate which funds under instant maintenance will go to the person at the moment when the order is issued, in case we are dealing with one child, two or more children. The second point to be raised is the question of maintenance obligations in relation to the age to which this obligation should be fulfilled. Well, there's no line today. We have decided that we are introducing this limit, hence changing one of the provisions of the Family and Care Code. This limit is 25 years old, because this is the age that we believe allows a person to become independent, or perhaps even vice versa, because parents also have the right to expect help from children in different situations. This may be the case in various situations, for they too have the right to a decent life, and this situation can be completely reversed. We therefore accept this limit for 25 years unless we are dealing with a disabled person or are sued to extend the maintenance obligation by a child. The point is, however, that in extreme cases in difficulty, the person concerned and this limit of 25 years will not be sufficient. However, this court will, of course, evaluate on the basis of the material that will be analysed. Another issue is the involvement of factors such as prosecutors, prosecutors, public-interest spokespersons, who should be involved, in caring cases, in cases where the child's well-being has either been violated or threatened. I am referring, above all, to matters concerning parental authority, deprivation, limitation of parental authority, changes in decisions in this regard. The court will be required to notify the prosecutor of such proceedings, as well as in all those situations where it considers that the child's well-being may be threatened. Today, actually, it remains to the sole discretion of the court whether or not the prosecutor should take part in the custody proceedings. Another issue is the question of listening to a minor. We introduce certain rules concerning this hearing, we define its terms in two provisions of the Civil Procedure Code. It cannot be so, ladies and gentlemen, that the hearing takes place e.g. In the judge's room. These must be conditions that resemble as much as possible the conditions of peace in the family home. I don't want to give you the details here, but that's just not the recipe. We're trying to fill this gap. Another issue is the extension of the use of mediation institutions. There's art. 18 Constitution, which says that family and marriage are under the protection and care of the Republic of Poland. This is where the information procedure emerged, which is why there is a need for mediation involving the judge, but also a mediator, as a stage, before the proper stage of proceedings brought by divorce or separation. Mediations are not an instrument in Poland, which is widely used, which we very much regret. In this project, we are trying to introduce an element of mediation in order to try to explain to the parties what the consequences of the dissolution of marriage are, in particular, the effects that this has on the children of the parties to the proceedings. According to Art. 436 § 1 of the Civil Procedure Code will need to carry out a family information procedure. It will be preceded, as I said, by divorce or separation, in a situation where we are dealing with marriage and with minor children. The questions may arise: what about when there is no marriage? So we've made that very clear. Of course, there may be a settlement under this procedure and issues such as parental authority, maintenance, contacts between the parties, the place of residence of the child may be resolved in this respect. These are very important elements. This mediation will be free of charge. This is important information. It will not be possible, however, if one of the parties is convicted of committing a deliberate crime, and even if charges are brought against the other party or against a minor, the minor concerned, unless, here too, we provide for an exception, the victim will request such mediation to take place. With regard to further issues relating to the improvement of procedures in this area, because, unfortunately, for many years we have been dealing with chronicity when we deal with these issues, it is also a matter of applying for safeguards. This will, of course, be possible in matters related to divorce or separation proceedings. These safeguards can be lodged once within 30 days of filing for divorce or separation. On the other hand, the court will exceptionally be able to allow further safeguards to be lodged, but only if the child's well-being is threatened. In any case, the court will assess this. I today, for various reasons, have had the honour of presenting this proposal, but I would ask the High House to support these solutions. They're needed. They serve to improve such proceedings, but above all, they always have the child's best interests in mind. This is another project that serves the welfare of the child, and I will try to convince you to do so today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u49	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would hear 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and 5 minutes' statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski gave his speech in writing. Please, Mrs Joanna Augustynowska, Parliamentary Club Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u50	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Yesterday we were celebrating the International Day of Parental Awareness. Parental alienation is a team of conscious or unconscious behaviors leading to a disorder between the child and at least one of the parents in a family break-up situation and the malfunctioning of family law and its institutions. Replacement care is a very important element in raising a child. For his development, it is very important to communicate with both his mother and his father. Let us remember that a disproportionate reduction in time spent with one of the parents has a very negative impact on the child's sense of safety. Equal time of care protects parents' relationship with their children. Equal care time reduces conflict between parents and reduces the likelihood of domestic violence. Equal care time improves the quality of parent-child relationships. The wave of divorce in Poland has been growing for many years. Thus, a wave of problems is growing. These rules are created by sending many petitions to different legislative bodies. This problem has been signalled for many years. All these issues relating to the safety of the child and the family should be crucial to this government, which constantly swears that it cares very much for the welfare of the family. These are key issues that we should address immediately. We have no doubt about that. However, it is strange to know and how to proceed over the bill. Let me remind you that we have received a bill that is a government project. He has undergone a number of consultations and theoretically meets all the formal requirements, only that within a month, or actually after a month, the author of this law deleted her half by autocorrection. The question arises: Why did he do it? What exactly is that supposed to do? Why prepare a bill, submit it to the Sejm to be removed half a month later? I don't really understand. I also do not understand why you, the government, the PiS, have resigned from the procedure for the draft Print Act No. 776, which was examined in the Senate, which has undergone all consultations, in which despite very sensitive and sensitive aspects it has been possible to reach consensus. After two years in the Senate, the subject was suddenly frozen. The details of the substantive provisions of this law will be discussed by Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska. It is an important project, extremely needed by the Polish family, but above all to children - to ensure their safety. On the other hand, I have a very important and fundamental question: Do you really want to make this bill, or is it just some PR-owska play again, which actually does not know what it serves? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u51	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u52	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Yesterday was the International Day of Parental Awareness. On this day, children ask for love and contact with both parents: Mom and Dad. It was Simon's 11-year-old who gave me this heart, Minister, to ask the parliamentarians to stand on the side of the children so that they would not have their children choose between their mother and dad to support the citizens' draft printing law No. 776, which was already mentioned here, which after two years of public consultation and proceding by the Senate - and it is worth noting that in the Senate he went through three senate committees in which he received full support over political divisions - he was removed from the agenda at second reading. Why? Because the government offered to print, the one we're talking about today. Allegedly better than the Senate, and in practice removing from the prepared project issues related to alternate care. The self-correction notified at the beginning of April is that you throw away the solution that thousands of children in Poland are waiting for from the project. From the article. Points 1, 2 and 3 shall be deleted which refer to the role of the court in determining, taking into account the right of the child to be raised by both parents. What happened to months of talking to the social side about this? What about petitions signed by thousands of parents on behalf of their children? In the explanatory memorandum, the Ministry of Justice explains that the existing arrangements for the residence of a child with each parent are optimal today. That's why, Minister, for $2,000. Divorce in Warsaw alone within a year is there only 20 decisions on alternate care? In Poland such situations are very rare: this is one in several cases in individual cities. This is not a bill that was created to protect the child's welfare. It's a law that can boldly be defined by an anti-divorce bill because you want to force your parents in a falling relationship to save their marriage. You don't think of the child's welfare here. It is a law which, instead of shortening and simplifying proceedings, extends them three times, because three separate proceedings are introduced instead of one previous divorce hearing: information, divorce and maintenance. That's about 60,000. You're doing an extra 60,000 divorces. Information procedures and 60 000. A maintenance order. That's $180,000. cases per year instead of those 60,000. How will this speed things up from the child's point of view? Information procedure in this form is one big misunderstanding, Minister. You're introducing provisions for a new date of diagnosis. It's a month - not since the application was filed, but since the first hearing. These are provisions that block the provision of safeguards for the duration of the information procedure, which in practice means that if the law enters into force and there is no goodwill of the parent, the second parent will not have the right to contact the child until the end of the information procedure. For example, in Warsaw it can last even about a year. There won't be any way to file a case, including a divorce. Consequently, it will not be possible to secure custody or contacts. The citizen shall be deprived of the right to hear the case without undue delay. It's a terrible change for hundreds of thousands of children a year. Let me just remind you that a year of not seeing him is enough to break up a relationship with a child. So in Warsaw such parents can simply lose their relationship with the child. The current spokesperson for the rights of the child who wrote this law, answering one of the mothers to the question of what will happen to the child during the information procedure, who will take care of it, answered: who first, the better. So the authority of the state to defend the rights of the child creates rules that allow the child to be treated instrumentally as a bargaining chip between conflicting parents. It is unacceptable that in a civilized state law allows such things. Children are not hostages, Minister, and the court is an institution to help parents reach an agreement in conflict, not blackmail their right to have a relationship with their children in a situation where they do not come to an agreement. The print project 3254, which we are talking about today, covers the issue of immediate child support, but does not include immediate child care. The government has decided that money is more important than relationships. And this is the country. caring for family and caring for children. Now, a few words about alimony. In order to achieve the result, it would be enough, Minister, and we have talked about this many times, among others. at the meeting of the petition committee, amend one article, i.e. introduce a time limit for examining the application and not create a separate ordering procedure. In the current wording, Article. 737 of the Civil Procedure Code refers to a 7-day time limit for a security application, which means in practice that it is 2 months in a maintenance case, not 7 days, only 2 months, and about 8 months in a contact security case. The courts explain that these 7 days are an instructional term, not an obligation. Maybe it's worth working on, High Government, on the effectiveness of the law that we already have today, not on creating another law that probably under these conditions and with these people. It won't be respected again. Instant maintenance? A very good idea, just a question of when, because it's not in the bill. From birth? Who's gonna take care of that? Quota benefits - you mentioned that. I agree, these are amounts in my senses set too low. You introduced 500+ yourself, saying that 500 PLN is a minimum amount that can secure something. Why don't we get out of this 500+ amount? There we have less than 500 PLN. I think it's worth talking about. One more question concerning children with disabilities. You treat all children the same way, and we know perfectly well that children with disabilities have a much more difficult situation, they require much more financial support because they need drugs, rehabilitation, constant assistance. Experts paid attention to this, so with these quota benefits at least 10% there should be more due to disability. It's a bill that parents' environment waits for a long time, but as in many cases changes are, I have this feeling, unfortunately superficial and underdeveloped, inconsistent with each other, which is why of course the Club Parliamentary [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Civic Platform - The Civic Coalition will vote in favour of sending this law to the committee so that we can continue to work on it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u53	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u54	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! A few of the High Salo's assembled! The draft amendment to the Family and Care Code was scheduled to be held yesterday at the meeting of the High House on the Day of Awareness of Parental Alienation. Too bad he missed. Although maybe it's okay, because you announced that this project would actually fight the alienation, and then we got what we got. But in this place, before I go any further, I would like to pay tribute to those victims of alienation that are so little said today, namely those children who were ripped from the heart of one parent and those parents who had their own child removed from their lives, but also to those grandmothers and grandparents who were taken from the joy of watching their grandchildren grow up. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that the Stalin family code needs to be changed, we all know. We all know how much the world has changed since the 1960s, how social roles have changed, how the perception of motherhood and fatherhood, how the perception of family has changed. The world has changed completely, while the Polish family code, Polish family law, Polish courts look like a museum of those times. We will all agree that after the parents are separated, Minister, whether it was a marriage or a non-formal relationship, the child's best interests are most important. And today this principle is repeatedly broken in at least a few aspects, i.e. children are victims of parental alienation violence, which means that one parent virtually without any consequences prevents the child from dealing with another parent, but also children are victims of financial violence, because very many children unfortunately are kept by one parent, because the other, for some reason more or less rational, refuses to participate in the cost of living the child, but also children are victims of something, Minister, which people call the divorce industry. It's not just about judges, it's about lawyers, it's about officials, it's about a whole bunch of people who just live off divorces for years, not a few moments. And the government project was supposed to respond to all these problems. However, he met with a rather critical party. We remember that he was already in the Sejm, that the Sejm was withdrawn from the Sejm, came back with an autorepair. And now about what happened in that autocorrection. Minister Ziobro argued publicly that this project was intended to stop alienation through its Penalisation, which is taking place in many European countries and works well, and that it was intended to give priority to alternate care, which is again not a unique phenomenon in Europe, because it is so in many countries. And you're removing the two main reasons why this law was created. This is completely incomprehensible, Minister, why this happened, especially since in the justification for the self-correction you write that, for example. Penalisation is controversial and this requires additional research. Minister! A few moments earlier, you wrote in the explanatory memorandum to the project that the answer to the doctrine's views about the lack of a legal basis for the establishment of alternate custody is that none of the substantive and legal provisions provides for such a solution and you referred to the resolution of the Council of Europe. In the explanatory memorandum to the self-correction, you write that everything is okay, because sometimes it's ruled alternate care. It doesn't add up. Minister! What does that come from? Why does it work like that? What's left of this project after the auto-correction? We've got immediate maintenance. This solution is certainly expected by many environments, especially since, finally, to a narrow extent, but finally alimony will be based on anything, on some maintenance table. This would be worth extending to all alimony, such as German or British. We've talked about this many times, and we're looking forward to it. But again, why isn't it worth harmonising the century that the Minister was talking about, e.g. as in the case of 500+? Why should it be 18, not 25, why 25, not 18? Let's get this sorted out. Family proceedings involving a mediator. A great thing, because parents will finally have the opportunity to hear from someone outside, from someone who is deeply on the subject of how their divorce, custody of children can end if they do what they do and how they end if they do otherwise. They can leave the court after 15 minutes with a judgment that will satisfy everyone, and they can leave the court after a few years with empty pockets and damaged health. A mediation meeting, of course. Only again, Minister: Children are really born not only in marriages, but also in non-formal relationships. Why in this situation do you deny these children the possibility that their parents will get along not so well with the mediator, because you, of course, do not refuse to do so, but before this information procedure with the mediator? You're gonna have a court order to notify the D.A. of situations where the child's well-being might be compromised. But, Minister, there's no need to change the code, there's no need to change the law. After all, the court has such an obligation. He should inform the D.A. if he's informed that the child's well-being is in some serious danger. The requests for security have already been made here by a fellow Member. In fact, you are de facto removing the possibility of submitting safeguards at all, because within 30 days, as we read in the project, nothing happens most often since the receipt of the letter initiating the procedure. Minister, you know these problems start a little later. Even 30 days after receipt of the letter initiating the procedure, it is very common, unfortunately, that one party to the proceedings does not know at all that a proceeding has begun. Of course, you leave some way for the court, very valuable, but we know very well how the courts treat the gates. If the court has a gate, it will treat it as it is convenient for it. High Izbo! There are plenty of substantive comments to this project. I have already tabled several such amendments in the form of suggestions, of course informal, with the Minister and the Advocate before. I am convinced that unless this project is rejected at first reading, and all indications are that it will not be rejected, these amendments will be several, dozens, if not more. In conclusion, it is very good that there is finally a government, the first government for decades, who has really noticed the need to change the family and caring code or wider family law. Thank you very much, because this is amazing. You can no longer stand by and look at the harm of children, parents, grandparents. I'm really glad the Ministry was even interested in this. To my office, but I think that at least a few people apply to the offices of all Members each week for assistance in matters of divorce, child care, alimony, etc. We need to sort this out. The scale of the harm is enormous, but these are the most common harms, dramas taking place in silence, in loneliness, and no one knows about them. I mean, the public learns about them, how something irreversible will happen, and we've dealt with such events in recent months at least several times. And we as Members, and you as officials, as lawyers, all have a duty to do something about it. Therefore, on behalf of these children, adults, please and I beg you, Minister, let this be beyond any division, without any preconditions, without looking at the electoral calendar. Please, let's not look at the election calendar. Let's all sit down and prepare together a comprehensive, thorough, fundamental change of family law. Unfortunately, this project, Minister - I say it with sincere regret and disappointment - is not such a project. I am not convinced that during the work of the committee it can become such a project. Perhaps, Minister, instead of repairing it, it would be worth writing it all over again, from the ground up, and this family code we're supposed to throw away, burn. A new code - rewrite, let it be like this for the 21st century, according to the expectations of parents today who use the Internet, fathers who... I go out to the playground with my son, and I see most fathers there. In the '60s, it was unthinkable. The world has changed. Let's follow it. Let's do it, Minister, really good. If today such a declaration was made from the Minister's mouth, it would probably be the happiest day in the lives of hundreds of thousands of Poles. Do it. If such a declaration does not fall, I may be forced to convince my club to vote against this project, because if this project passes, if you push it through with your knee, perhaps the subject of changes to the Family Code will not return for the next dozen years. We can't let that happen because the kids are waiting. Those kids are really hurting. Minister, you know that. You're looking into those kids' eyes, I know that. Let's do this right, Minister. The family code needs deep, real changes, not cosmetics, because this makeup can only hurt. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u55	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Paszik is not here. Please, Mrs Monica Rosa, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u56	Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! When we proceed with this bill, we have to answer the question of how the justice system can provide a key issue or not, but to make the conflict between two adult people, parents, not more severe than it is when a child is separated or divorced. This bill doesn't answer that question. The issue of maintenance is important, but the project does not give parents on the one hand a sense of security, for example. they were victims of domestic violence, and on the other hand they do not give a sense of security to parents who experience parental alienation. So in order to be serious about the justice system in the context of family law, to safeguard the interests of the child, in fact in more detail, by reconciling different interest groups, because we know that these different interests groups will drag one or the other of the proposed provisions of the law, this project needs to be done really nice and take a look at it wider. We are talking here about parental alienation, which is dramatic and very serious. The original draft law contained provisions introducing alternative care, which seems to be one of the most important things for the interests of the child and meets, is an expression of the application of many principles and articles of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. On the other hand, I am very pleased that you have introduced an autocorrection, which has, however, removed the Penalisation in the form of the introduction in criminal proceedings of the possibility of punishing parents who, according to the projectors, have applied this alienation. It is already possible to impose various penalties on a parent who, in the opinion of the court of this alienation, is permitted. But here, again, there's a question of a broader view of the case. If they are parents who have experienced violence, if the child has experienced violence, if the child does not want to date another parent, for example. it was sexually abused, even if these meetings are taken care of by a probation officer, it's very difficult for a child. Thus, it often happens that a parent who has experienced violence is still obliged to pay money to a violent person. We are not going to solve this matter, but we must do this in depth, by simply stifling these changes in the bill design, both in terms of the presence of both parents in the life of the child, and the real fight against violence and providing maintenance to the parent, actually to the child who is taking care of the parent. There have been a lot of dramatic letters about this kind of penalization. They were written by their parents and their worried parents and their scared mothers. Therefore, it is good that there is this self-correction, while it does not solve the whole problem. The issue of information proceedings is very controversial. It is intended to precede divorce or separation cases when there are minors. This procedure shall begin before the application for divorce or separation is filed. Its purpose is to reconcile the spouses or to reach a settlement. It seems that this change and the possibility for the court to suspend divorce proceedings more than once, if it comes to the conclusion that there are prospects for marriage, is a mistake. This may lead to an extension of divorce proceedings, which is neither in the interests of the parties nor in the interests of the child, because it is actually very stressful for minors. You justify this in the project by the fact that very often married couples get divorced rashly. It is precisely in order to eliminate these hasty divorces that arrangements were made for information proceedings. However, the possibility of obtaining a refund of half the court's fees in divorce cases was also eliminated if the court ruled that the parties had divorced at the same request and without a conviction of guilt. However, there is no study that shows that parents are divorced rashly. This is a very stressful, difficult time - the division of wealth, divorce, the granting of custody of children - so it is not likely that anybody will rush into such a process. Mediation is already possible, with different results being carried out. However, it does not seem reasonable to extend the divorce or separation process itself. Very important changes are issues of maintenance - obtaining alimony, maintenance. This will be decided in a simplified way, i.e. in the so-called. maintenance proceedings. Here you relied on various experiences from abroad, among others. on German maintenance tables. On the other hand, I have asked the Minister to present what amounts will be allocated in this maintenance order procedure and how they are up to the actual level required to maintain the child in terms of financial expenditure. It is very difficult to reconcile different groups, especially in such a conflicting process as divorce and separation. That's why we always look at the baby's best interests. The child's best interests are first and foremost the efficient, quick divorce without parents arguing and dragging children into it, the second element is access to both parents, and the third is to make the child feel safe both financially and on the part of their parents, if violence is used or abused in such relationships. And all these elements need to be reconciled. This bill is very superficial and does not introduce a real revolution into the law that we would expect, but we propose that it be sent to committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u57	Thank you very much, Member. I now declare a five-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 min. 38 hrs. 10 min 45]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 33 of the agenda. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Małgorzata Płępek. There is no Member. Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15. There isn't. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice. There isn't. Mrs Alicja Chybicka, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. Question time is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u58	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I don't think the project you're presenting is really protecting the baby. When you presented the project, you used the phrase that the child was still in the background. It shouldn't be in the background. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: Good child.]] The child's welfare should not be in the background, Minister, it should be in the first place. Don't you think the child should have a statutory representative? Why? Because divorce is always a disadvantage to him, just like parents fighting over his head over who and when he is to have this child. This law should arise, having as an absolutely superior purpose, not as a background, the welfare of the child. Parents and grandparents aren't important here. It is important that this unfortunate child is in such a situation. It seems to me that this bill lacks true protection of the good. [[♪ The bell ♪]] A child. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u59	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u60	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Unfortunately, family matters of this type reach our parliamentary offices. They are very difficult and very sad. They relate to divorces and disagreements, parental agreement on the fate of the child and custody of the child. Often there is a situation that when a child requires a lot of care, one party, e.g. The father, for several years, is not interested in him at all, but when the child grows out of diapers, he goes to the first, second grade primary school, this website uses its advantage - often financial - and tries to encourage them to more contact, visits, trips, etc. By the way, we are dealing with presenting the other side, in this case the mother, as the evil one. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The relationship with the mother is broken, the child neglects science, the drama gets bigger. I have a question: Do in such situations as: This one, described by me, which is being discussed today, changes anything to protect children from such problems? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u61	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u62	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Will the changes you make in the Family and Care Code help children in any way if their parents are separated? I'm asking because my parents come to my office in Koszalin with their problems. I talk to them a lot, so I know these problems. I often support them during various protests, charities or conferences organized by the Koszalin Children's Rights Defence Association. I'm also a person of confidence in court. I act and help because the child's well-being is the most important thing. I would also add that fathers are often discriminated against during the fight for rights to raise children. Let us remember that the welfare of the child and the family is the most important thing. Finally, I would like to add that the Minister is very helpful to children. That's what kids get for it. This is particularly true of parents' struggle to recover them abroad. Finally, I would like to say hello to the young people present at the gallery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u64	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Today we have such a situation that if one parent refuses to execute court decisions concerning custody of the child, prevents the child from contacting the other parent and refuses to give it, then there is really nothing to do. The procedure, of course, provides for the possibility of imposing a fine, so it is an option, but it is absolutely ineffective and rarely used, and, above all, it takes so long that the child's alienation is very often beyond repair. In the original version of the project, you wrote that it introduces a new type of crime and thus criminality for obstructing contact with a child, obstructing the possibility of alternate custody when the decision or settlement is not enforced despite prior ordering payment of the sum of the money and avoiding enforcement of the decision of the court ordering the withdrawal of the child. Minister! What happened that the government so quickly and so radically [[♪ The bell ♪]] Did he change his mind? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u65	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u66	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Is the proposed rules concerning, inter alia, Information procedures also concern circumstances relating to the regulation of care for children by parents who are not and never married? With these situations - this was clear in the discussion today - we often meet in our parliamentary offices, so we should pay particular attention to them. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u67	Thank you very much. That was the last question. Please take the floor of Mr. Nicholas Pawlak's Child Rights Officer. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u68	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, Greetings to the young people. Today we will debate, among others. about youth cases, also at the round table at the National Stadium in an hour. This debate shows that the most serious remarks on family matters concerning children are about what is not in the project. [[Question: "Why isn't it there?"]] The debate also shows that there have been positive voices that this has been the largest reform of family law for decades - not only this concrete reform, but the last three years of family law reform. As spokesperson for the rights of the child, I thank the Minister for putting so much emphasis on children's affairs and concern for their well-being. All the reforms that have so far been introduced in the area of family law by the High House during this term of office have been widely accepted. Even the so-called. The Hague Act was practically unanimously adopted. As for this reform, two sentences, not so much comments as confirmation that of course the project is not perfect, it can always be extended, it can always be supplemented by certain issues that concern children and their relationship with parents, whether in marriage or outside of marriage, but the law is so designed that divorce concerns those situations where marriage is. Perhaps this family information procedure should be considered as piloting. If it works out, it would be very good for such mediation to precede any family matter in the future, because the smallest case of 50 PLN of child support - because this child is the reason - shows a conflict between parents. Perhaps this will be possible in some time if these regulations start to work. Cases concerning immediate maintenance and the entire order for payment These are children's rights, social rights. It is one of the elements of the tools to restore awareness of the obligation to raise children also in the social field. So that these solutions in the name of the good of children as a spokesman support and confirm, and thank you for your commitment to the good of children and family matters. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u69	Thank you very much. And please, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr. Michael Wójcik.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u70	Dear Marshal! Dear Ombudsman, Ladies and gentlemen! At first I would like to thank you all very warmly for all your comments, we have listened very carefully to them and will work during the legislative process. There is no political division here, I think, because the question of the child's welfare is the most important. Here I will refer to Mrs Alicia Chybicka immediately. The fact that I say that the background remains - not the child - the welfare of the child, that means that it is most important, is at the head. All our projects were designed to protect the child's well-being, to strengthen the child's well-being, and so did this project. We can, of course, argue, and very well, let them be constructive. The family and caring code is an age document, and I think that these solutions that we are presenting today are some part of the issues and let's discuss them, let's talk about them. I don't think there's any division between us. I would like it to be like the Central Authority Act mentioned by your Ombudsman, where everyone in this House unanimously supported the final shape of the project. Nobody pulled the card, no one voted against, no one held back. I will start with Mrs Joanna Augustynowska and Mrs Kornelia Wróblewska. Sorry to bother you, but I didn't separate which one of the ladies that you asked exactly. I am sure you have said whether we, as a government, care about the welfare of children. Well, of course. The 500+ programme, such as the law on cross-border cases, the whole range of our various projects, or the first law that passed, concerning the ban on the reception of children solely because of poverty. Absolutely always this government is driven to strengthen the position of the child, the welfare of the child. There's no doubt about it. The issue of transversal care and penance, because it raises the biggest doubts, I'll leave it at the end and try to explain it. The question that Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska asked is that we are extending the procedure... That's not true. After all, in this regulation we present, there are deadlines. This isn't about 60,000. information proceedings, but about 30,000, because this is about situations where there are minors or children, so not in all divorce cases information proceedings will be conducted. That's once. However, under no circumstances can I agree with the fact that we are extending. We're not prolonging. For example, once, I've already mentioned this. Why? Because the plenipotentiaries of the parties often used various tricks to submit further applications, further safeguards, and that was why the proceedings were prolonged. I cannot agree with the Member here. The question is why there are no other proceedings when there is a family information procedure. If we want to get the parties to agree through mediation - and these are things that have a huge emotional charge, and we all know that because we meet with people who have these problems every day - then let's give it a chance. After all, it is known that if there are other proceedings, this opportunity will not be in mediation. I think we'll try to persuade you to do so during the committee work. Since when do you expect an immediate alimony? As from the moment of the order, they cannot be ordered retroactively. That's not gonna happen. Mr Paweł Skutecki. Why did we point out 25 years? For a simple reason. Because the maintenance fund pays benefits up to this age. For the consistency of the system. That's where the 25-year limit came from. Here, the Member has been a bit critical of our approach to mediation. We're expanding mediation. In general, I believe that mediation in the Polish system is a very serious problem, which requires a thorough debate on the justice system. There are systems of European countries where mediation is used, there are shorter procedures where this instrument works well, among others. mediation proceedings in Germany. We would very much like to improve our justice system, our justice procedures by extending mediation, especially when the welfare of children is the most important. I deal with cross-border matters every day. Parents sometimes fight to the end, no matter what the means. You know that, too. That's why there's such an emotional charge. Where there is a child, there is a struggle without any brakes, which I regret. Always if the case comes to us, to the Ministry, and concerns among others. cross-border, but also national, we say: Why not use this instrument, mediation? Make peace because the most important interest here is the child and it loses the most. It's a security limitation case. As far as security's concerned, I've already explained it. The point is not to prolong the procedure. There were dozens of votes in this Chamber, and you can see that sometimes each of them was different, for example on the issue of safeguards, mediation. Sometimes we're very different here. We'll be working on it on the committees. Mrs Monica Rosa is asking for maintenance amounts. You're welcome. As for the amount of immediate maintenance allowances for one child, this is PLN 496. I refer this to the amount of conversion announced by the Minister of Justice by 30 November each year. For 2019 it amounts to 1304.34 PLN, i.e. for one child, it will be 496 PLN, for each of the two children, from the same parents naturally - 450 PLN, for each of the three - 404 PLN, for each of the four children - 359 PLN and 313 PLN for each of the five and more children from the same parents. Mrs Alicia Chybicka, I have already explained one thing here, and on the question of who is to protect the welfare of the child, I answer that the court is above all. It's different, we know, but it should be, and that's where we're going with it. Hence, among others. our changes also in the laws concerning the training of judges - this is very important - one of the laws we carried out, about the National School of Judicial Affairs and the Public Prosecutor's Office. Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, we will not force our parents to take care of their children as we wish. Does this bill bring us closer to making things better? Yes. Through e.g. Mediation brings us closer to it. That's what I think. Mr Rometsky thanked me - thank you very much to him - for this law, I understand, about the central body, that is, cross-border cases. Soon we will want to present the effects of this law. She's been functioning for a few months now, and the courts are doing well. I will remind you that there are so-called courts there. Specialised. It's an experiment, but all indications are that it's a good one. Mr Pyzik asked about the information procedure, whether it only concerns spouses. Yes, it only applies to spouses. It precedes divorce or separation cases, so it must concern spouses who have a child or a minor's child. This is a very important matter. And there are key issues, and I promised I'd leave them at the end, which raises the most controversy. Why was the autocorrection made? It's about the issue of alternate care. We're still conducting the analysis, ladies and gentlemen. We're still conducting studies on the issue of divorces of married couples with minor children. In absolute numbers, the data is very interesting. Now, but this is 2017 data, 38 267 divorces in 20 454 cases were entrusted to the exercise of parental authority together with mother and father. In 2014, for example, on 38 040 cases, i.e. a comparable number, in 12 595 cases. Replaceable care provisions can be applied and applied. These data, these numbers show it's working. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Yes, these figures, these figures show that this, Madame, is working. There is a question of the number of judgments in 2018. The number of cases received in 2018 on the establishment of contacts with a minor - 16 085, the number of cases concerning the change of contacts - 5598, the number of cases for the execution of contacts with a minor - 4417. And now the number of decisions in which it was threatened, because it is known that in today's system there are two stages, a person who does not realize contacts ordering payment of a marked sum of money - 782. These numbers are important. And the number of decisions ordered to pay the sum of money is 215. If we say that this is such a huge social problem, then if we are referring to today's system and fines, then I say with full responsibility that we are talking about 215 cases, 215 cases. The issue of criminalisation is extremely sensitive. I do not agree with the previous speaker who said that in most countries there is criminalisation. There are no countries in most of the country, but the fact is that it is different. There are countries in which there is a sentence of imprisonment if there is no contact or difficulty in contact. Indeed, in this project there was a question of restricting freedom and fines, a question of restricting freedom, a criminalisation was introduced, but I will refer to what I do every day: cross-border crime. Well, ladies and gentlemen, today, if there is a request in Poland under ENA, a European arrest warrant, if there is, for example, a parental kidnapping, then we do not issue our citizens. Why? That's because there's no criminalisation. If in these cases we introduce a Penalization, please bear in mind that there is a possibility that our citizens at the moment when they will influence the Polish ENA to issue a Polish citizen... Penalization will open up the possibility of giving up our citizens. I can't imagine this. Can any of you convince me that if there is a restriction of freedom, if there is a penalty for the restriction of freedom in the project, our citizen will not be issued at the time of the request for the execution of the European arrest warrant? You can't convince me because I talked to the cardinals about it. This is a very serious matter for me, very important, and on the other hand I have in the background the numbers I have given you. There were people who said it was a huge social problem, but it's not a social problem that shows it in statistics. I wish there wasn't a problem at all so that there weren't even 215 penalties. It's obvious. So, given cross-border crime, cross-border cases, in such cases, I, as Deputy Minister on these matters, absolutely do not support a solution that would give someone a little chance to have a Polish citizen released abroad. And that's why the autocorrection was introduced. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u71	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u72	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice a position towards the Government's draft law amending the Family and Care Code Act and some other laws, print Nos 3254 and 3254-A. We agree with the aim of the Council of Ministers to prepare this project. It is, as the government points out in the explanatory memorandum, above all, the protection of the rights of minors of children from conduct that violates their welfare. The assessment of existing solutions leads to a conclusion that the position of a minor child needs to be strengthened. This applies both to the sphere of substantive and formal law. The need for legislative changes results from an assessment of the effectiveness of judgments in family and caring matters, which indicates: prolonged child support proceedings, including due to intentional obstruction, insufficient protection of the child's interests in divorce proceedings, other solutions requiring legislative intervention. In our view, the project contains a number of solutions that lead to a solution, and in any case - to alleviate existing problems. We consider it particularly important: the introduction of an institution for immediate maintenance and maintenance proceedings, a family information procedure to precede divorce proceedings or the separation of spouses with common minors, including family mediation. It is worth mentioning that the project was subject to extensive public consultation. In their course, the following comments were made by the Supreme Court, the Presidents of the Appeals Courts in Warsaw, Krakow, Szczecin, Łódź, Katowice, Gdańsk, Wrocław, the spokesperson for the rights of the child, the Ombudsman, the National Council of Curators, the National Council of Legal Counselors and the Foundation We give the Children Force. Part of the comments was taken into account. The matter of family law is one of the most sensitive parts of the law. Distinction between the rights and interests of the parties in family law matters often poses many difficulties. At the same time, the length of proceedings leads to irreparable damage, including in particular those that burden minors. We therefore support the proposed changes. At the same time, due to the importance of the matter being processed, we are ready to discuss so as to ensure that the best-thought-out and legislative provisions are implemented. By acting on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I declare that the club will support further work on the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u73	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position towards the Government's draft law amending the Family and Care Code Act and some other laws, prints no. 3254 and 3254-A. This project is another, following changes in the enforcement of maintenance obligations, project addressing the needs of minors who are raised in incomplete families. I have no doubt that the existing regulations introduced in the times of the United Right have significantly reduced the number of parents who avoid paying child support. I am convinced that the changes we are looking at today will have an equally positive impact on children's lives. One of the solutions proposed in the novel is the introduction of the so-called. immediate maintenance and maintenance proceedings. These are changes that will definitely speed up child support from parents. An immediate maintenance allowance is a maintenance allowance announced in the maintenance proceedings, the amount of which will be calculated on the basis of a single universal rule covering the number of children, the fertility rate announced by the CSO and the amount of the minimum gross wage. A lawsuit filed in a new, maximum simplified procedure will have to be dealt with by the family court within a maximum of 14 days. The important thing is that everyone will be able to fill it out without the help of a lawyer, and all you need to do is attach a copy of the birth certificate to the child. Today, a single parent is waiting even a few months to get alimony. During this time, he often has to face considerable financial problems. It is therefore very easy for him because it involves a faster payment of maintenance benefits. One of the solutions proposed in the draft is family mediation conducted by a professional in the context of a family information procedure. Free mediation is intended to counter rash decisions on the dissolution of marriage and assist divorced parents in reaching the best settlement for their child concerning their place of residence, contacts and alimony. I share the opinion of the designers that this solution will, thanks to the settlements that have been worked out during this process, shorten subsequent divorce proceedings and reduce their conflict. Children will benefit from this first and foremost. About Free and Solidarni supports the presented project.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u74	Marshal of the Sejm, based on art. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, directs the Government's draft law amending the Family and Care Code Act and certain other laws, contained in prints Nos 3254 and 3254-A, to the Extraordinary Commission for amendments to the codifications for consideration. On this we have exhausted the agenda of the 80th session of the Polish Sejm. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? If not, I'm closing the list. The first statement will be made by Mrs Alicja Chybick, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. Excuse me. I wanted to welcome to the Sejm former prisoners from the Ravensbrück camp who came to see and visit the Sejm today. We cordially welcome all ladies to the Seym. [[Applause]] The ladies are coming in. Thank you very much. Now, I would like to ask you very much to make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u75	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to raise a very important problem today, and I don't think it's fully resolved, namely the problem of genetically conditioned diseases, especially rare diseases. The projected development of research into molecular pathogenesis of monogenous diseases, which is the majority of rare diseases, increasingly involves multigene changes that determine the occurrence of civilizational diseases such as cardiovascular, respiratory, tumor or procreation disorders. In this context, gene therapy is expected to develop in relation to different categories of genetic diseases. A very important part of the use of genetic techniques is perinatal diagnostics. Currently, 7,000 are known. various types of rare diseases, which are called corphan diseases, among which the vast majority are diseases of genetic origin. 90% of patients, a similar number of patients with intellectual disabilities. Genetic diseases account for about 30% of the causes of hospitalization in children's hospitals and more than 20% in adult wards. The diagnostics of genetic diseases, their ability to treat or prevent them, as well as the assessment of the magnitude of the genetic risk of the disease in the family are among the most difficult problems of modern medicine, currently not fully solved. Medical genetics, including cytogenetics, molecular genetics have become essential both for rational, corresponding to the level of modern knowledge and planning possibilities for diagnostic tests, for proper interpretation of the results obtained and for individualisation of treatment. Congenital metabolic defects are still the least recognizable group of diseases. And here's the dog buried. Well, early diagnosis of most congenital metabolic defects gives the child a chance to transplant stem cells from peripheral blood from a healthy second child - this is then allogeneic transplant, family transplant - or donor bank - is then allotransplant. Children who have completed this transplant until 3 months of age develop completely properly, have no damage to organs and grow from them adult people. There is an urgent need that, at the moment, genetic diseases caused by mutations within the gene or genes relevant for the proper functioning and construction of the child's body, to which these previously mentioned diseases belong by me... They can generally be divided into inheritable and inherited. That knowledge is essential. Therefore, the key issue is a perinatal diagnosis, so that these genetic disorders can be identified as soon as possible and directed to a care centre for rare diseases, because the methods that we can use are not just a transplant of haematopoietic stem cells. That's what I started with, because there's a branch in Cape Hope, and we have a lot of kids that are developing fantastically, provided the transplant was done early, because the disease causes the child's gradual, worse and worse functioning, both physically and mentally. Therefore, perinatal diagnostics should be available in all branches, large ones and small ones. This should include chain PCR, DNA hybridization, DNA sequencing, and flow cytometry. Of course, it's impossible to talk about these diseases for only five minutes, because there are plenty of them. I'm going to replace chondrodysplasia, family hypercholesterolaemia, congenital mythosis. For beings that come into the world with these diseases, there is now the possibility of substitution treatment if an enzyme is missing, and there are methods of gene therapy. They are not yet common in Poland, but there are centres in the world. We have one such child who went from Wroclaw to a little known medium in China, where he was implanted with a gene for the missing enzyme. The production of this enzyme is normal. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the baby's recovered. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u76	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Kurzepa, Law and Justice. There's no envoy. Mr Grzegorz Puda, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u77	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The Council of the Children and Youth of the Republic of Poland at the Minister of National Education was appointed on 1 October 2016 by the Minister of National Education, Ms Anna Zalewska, on the basis of a regulation of the Council of Ministers, according to which any minister may establish such an advisory body. Its task is above all to present opinions and proposals on matters relating to children and young people. In this way, students and people who have recently completed secondary education have been involved in the development and change of the education system themselves. On April 17th, just over a week ago, the Council in cooperation with the Minister of National Education and the Parliamentary Group for Education. Supporting Youth Councils at the Office of the President of the Council of Ministers' Offices organized a conference of youth councils: Young 4.0 - the biggest conference of youth councils in Poland. The event was attended by over 300 young, ambitious and creative people who are passionate about working for local communities, but not only. The meeting was attended by a representative from Slovakia, a youth council from Bardejów, who has been seeking representation of young people in the country for years, working with the Children's and Youth Council in Poland. The leader of the Slovak organization took the floor during this conference. Piotr Wasilewski, President of the Children's and Youth Council, presented the number of youth councils in Poland. As the results of previous years show, it gradually increases by 100 new tips each year. For example, in 2016, there were 200 of them, in 2017, there were 300 of them, in 2018. - over 400, and this year there are over 500 youth councils. It's a gigantic growth in such a small interval of time. This shows how much youth policy in Poland develops every day and how broad it has prospects. Young people are interested in their voice being heard and their proposals for solutions are really taken into account. From this point on, I would like to call on all of you to always listen to the voice of young people. Give her the chance to develop and share what is good, especially for Poland. We want to cooperate with the youth community and take care of the needs of young people in Poland. Unfortunately, the young generation's sentence is often ignored, taken unseriously or ignored. It's wrong. Children and adolescents must not be overlooked. That is why I am pleased that despite the attacks on the Children's and Youth Council, it shows great courage, and young people, when working socially hard, are looking for matters of their peers. Let us not forget that it is these people who will become leaders of public life in Poland and therefore it is worth listening carefully to their voice. For this, young people, I would like to thank you sincerely and I appeal: do not give up. Don't be grown-ups. Don't let them tell you your actions are pointless. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u78	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jacek Wilk, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u79	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, exactly as I predicted more than a year ago, the matter of implementing Law 447 in Poland, the famous Act Just on claims concerning so-called. property without heirs, has a very fatal continuation and consequences, a very concrete consequence. Two weeks ago, Mr. Red. Stanisław Michalkiewicz revealed a secret memo from the conversation of Ambassador Chodorowicz, a special representative of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Poland, with his American counterpart, which took place at the seat of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Poland on 29 October that year and concerned just the specific manner of implementation and enforcement in Poland of the Just Act, i.e. Act S.447. From this secret note we learn very clearly, unambiguously and undoubtedly, that it is something of a kind, these findings that have been made there are some kind of road map indicating how this law is to be implemented in Poland. The US Party stresses that it is aware that we have an election year, but at the same time insists that very concrete and significant progress is made in implementing the provisions of Law 447 in Poland. The assumption, however, is that the arrangements are to be informal and classified, and are to become public and official after the elections, i.e. to take the shape of the concrete legislative solutions that Secretary Mike Pompeo referred to at least on 14 February. on the occasion of his visit to Warsaw. Thus, it is clear from the memo that the American side is demanding that at least the most important things be established with representatives of Jewish organizations, namely to carry out the so-called. financial negotiations. So the Polish side has until then, to the parliamentary elections in 2019, to agree on how it can be uglylyly to say about the amounts to be transferred under the so-called. restitution of property without heirs. These arrangements for specific amounts are to be made for elections, and after the elections concrete work is to be carried out on the introduction of legislation, namely to create a special, exceptional legal basis for such property without heirs or equivalent, or a certain part of it to be transferred to Holocaust industry organisations. Ladies and gentlemen! This emphasizes, it shows once again, that the Polish side, that the government unfortunately cheats voters all the time, saying that the problem of Law 447 does not exist. There is, and it is clear, that secret negotiations are being conducted, hidden, secretly, without talking to the public, without communicating this information to the public. In a secret way, secret, behind-the-scenes, without informing Polish citizens such conversations are taking place and, as you can see, there are already very concrete arrangements. Because it is a matter of great importance, given the amount of these claims, the size of which varies according to various estimates from $60 to up to $300 billion, in view of the enormous threat that may arise from the implementation of this law, we, as the Confederation, are demanding strongly from the government and from the Foreign Minister, from the Prime Minister to report to the High House, and explaining at what stage these negotiations are, what has been established so far, and why this information is not communicated to the public. Poles, voters, Polish citizens have the right to know what is going on in this area, because if such demands - completely unfounded at this moment - will be implemented, if there is special legislation to implement them, they simply threaten the vital interests of the Polish state. I stress once again: we demand information from the government regarding both the circumstances of this memo and its continuation, the way in which it is implemented, the implementation and the stage at which the negotiations between the Polish party and representatives of the Jewish diaspora are currently taking place. restitution of property without heirs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u80	Thank you very much, sir. And here you are, Mr Jacek Kurzepa, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u81	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Participants of the 4th National Congress of Youth Councils at the Units of the Local Government, which took place in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister on 17 April 2019! I would like to thank you, young councillors from all over Poland, who so many - over 300 participants - have come at the invitation of the Parliamentary Group for. Supporting Youth Councils in the Units of the Territorial Self-Government to further debate the state's youth policy. It was our fourth congress, in line with the work plans of the team that we adopted in 2016. At that time, many months ago, we set ourselves an ambitious goal of opening doors to the policy of the young generation of Poles and encouraging young people to in contact with the so-called. Seym or government policies were given as many positive models and examples as possible to follow. It was about young people also learning to cooperate between people, in which, despite the differences of worldview, political and characteristic, they could come to an agreement without detracting from the dignity and respect of the adversaries and themselves. It's a long-distance target. In turn, the operational objectives of the parliamentary team were the following. Firstly, dynamicising the work of youth city councils and other local government units throughout Poland and integrating this environment, as well as showing the desired career models. As far as quantitative issues are concerned, I would like to inform you that we have achieved an incredible quantitative increase in youth advice in Poland. At the moment, there are more than 519 of them, and at the time the parliamentary team began to operate, there were, perhaps, 207 of them. So assuming that each advice is about 15 and 20 people, it turns out that about 6,000 people. Young people have really engaged in the affairs of their small homelands, which I congratulate and thank you for. The second element of the operational objective was the development of a recommendation to amend the Local Government Act in the field of Article. 5b and the introduction of a new law into the Seym procedure. Young people, especially the Polish Council of Youth Organisations and Mr Mateusz Czerniga, have done their work perfectly in the form of consultations at national level and have prepared almost a ready-made document for seym treatment. For now, however, we still have the Seym work ahead of us. I trust that the government's term of office covering the years 2019 to 2022 will effectively carry this out. The last element is the development of the principles of the draft law on the Council of Young People of the Republic, which was carried out. However, the process of convincing adult politicians about the issue of releasing young people's energy in this form is more difficult than I thought. In view of the above, this task also falls on the Sejm of the next term of office and perhaps also a parliamentary team for supporting youth councils was created at that time. I thank Mr Tomasz Racławski and Mr Adam Janczewski for their extensive work on this project. So many specifics. We haven't said the last word yet. I trust that any day you, young people, participants and beneficiaries of an interesting structural offer, will be involved in an innovative way in involving the young generation of Poles in shared responsibility for public affairs. I would like to once again, sum up this 4th Congress of Youth Councils with local government units, to thank also for the hospitality of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, Minister Lipiński, who organized our stay in KPRM in an incredibly warm and hospitable way. I would also like to thank the young people themselves, who are active in youth councils, and to ask all her peers who have not yet taken part in these activities to take this in haste. I'd like to say hello. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-26-sejm-80-4.u82	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements. Information about the impact of interpellations and queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 80th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda for the 81st session of the Sejm, scheduled for 15, 16 and 17 May 2019, will be delivered to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 11 min 29]]
