ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u1	Resume session. I would like to call Piotr Olszówka, Krzysztof Kubow, Sylvester Tulayev and Agata Borowiec to the secretaries of today's proceedings. Piotr Olszówka and Krzysztof Kubów will be members in the first part of the session. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Members Krzysztof Kubów and Agata Borowiec. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Poselska etiquette - hour. 10.30, - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 12, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - Health-- hour. 12, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 13, - Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs - hour. 2.30 p.m., - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 15, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 3.30 p.m., - Culture and Media - hour 3.30 p.m., - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 5:30 p.m., - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 8:30. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Estimates of Poland's Compensation for Damages in the Second World War - hours. 10, - Parliamentary Group for: Program Polska 3.0 - hour 12, - Parliamentary Animal Friends Team - h.m. 16. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u3	Thank you, sir. The Council of Ministers has submitted draft laws: - amending the Law on State aid to raise children and certain other laws, - to amend the Family and Care Code Act and certain other laws. The designs are prints No. 3387, 3254 and 3254-A respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the first reading of these draft laws. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Law on the shaping of the agricultural system and certain other laws, - amending the Labour Code Act and certain other laws, - about the National Oncology Strategy. These are printers 3384, 3372 and 3383 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. The competent committees have also submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Road Transport Act and certain other laws, - ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the International Criminal Police Organisation - Interpol concerning privileges and immunities during 47. The European Regional Conference, signed in Lyon on 9 April 2019. These are prints 3395 and 3400 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Sejm Regulation. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Group of Members submitted a request to express a vote of distrust to the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, Mark Gróbarczyk, print No 3344. The committee's opinion is in print No 3365. On the basis of the article. Article 115 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 in conjunction with Article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with The Committee on Justice and Human Rights presented its opinion on the proposal for the selection of a candidate for the post of judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. The committee's opinion is in print 3390. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point including consideration of the matter. I would like to inform you that the Senate has accepted without any amendments to the bill: - amending the Financial Market Surveillance Act and certain other laws, i.e. Point 26. - on the amendment of the Law on Road Traffic and the Law of the Criminal Code, i.e. Point 27. As a result, the agenda items planned have become unobserved. I also inform you that the planned item 23rd of the agenda, including the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the National Property Resources Act and some other laws, will not be considered at the current meeting of the Sejm. After consulting the Seniors Convention, I decided to delete from the agenda the current meeting of item 25: Information from the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration on the implementation in 2017 of the Police Modernization Programme, Border Guard, State Fire and State Security Service (2017-2020), print No 2600, together with the position of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, print No 2654. Formal requests shall be made by Members. Member Urszula Augustyn, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to Art. Paragraph 184. 1 and 3 paragraph 1 of the resolution of the Sejm concerning the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I ask for a period of time. 12, because the Minister of Education is involved in the Seym, Prime Minister Szydło. There is no Prime Minister, but I think he would also need this break. My proposal is related to the law which you wish to proceed at today's meeting in the third, in turn, with the so-called. It's a senior law. I request a recess so that the government can sit down immediately with the teachers and talk to them about their legitimate demands. [[Applause]] I'm bringing this up because you're using all kinds of bypasses and you're not worried about who's gonna test seniors, you're just happy that you've got an idea of how seniors can let you go. And who's gonna test them? Sit down at the table, talk about the right demands of teachers, but finally with some reasonable proposition, not like a wall that doesn't respond to constant appeals and requests. [[♪ The bell ♪]] 700,000. people are waiting for this plus parents and students. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u5	Thank you, Member. At the moment, the proposal is being tabled by Robert Winnicki, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to request a recess so that the Foreign Minister can be called as soon as possible, who should make an explanation on the matter. a note revealed a week ago by the editor Michalkiewicz. In this memo we read that the Polish government is conducting secret negotiations on the implementation of claims of Jewish communities. It is about property claims that could ruin the Polish budget.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u7	Mr President, this item is not on the agenda in the Sejm.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u8	This is a secret, and unfortunately you do not want to talk about it publicly. You don't want to inform the public about this subject. A debate is needed in the Sejm on this subject. I urge you to call the Foreign Minister and hold a debate on this.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u9	Mr President, I would like to point out to you that this point is not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u10	Mr. Marshal, I move that this be on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u11	But there are procedures for this matter... [[Voice from the room: Are you talking about procedures?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u12	Mr. Marshal, with all due respect, procedures aren't the strongest part of your Marshal's office in this Seym.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u13	...e.g. Please submit your applications by 3 p.m. 21 before the beginning of the sitting of the Sejm. So that thank you very much, I cannot accept this proposal as a formal proposal, but there is a request for a break, previously submitted, and I will put this proposal to the vote. We can proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of declaring a time-out? 12, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 327 Members voted. For - 139, against - 186, holding off on 2. The Sejm's motion is denied. The Council of Ministers submitted a draft law amending the law on the education system and the law on education, print no. 3398. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, there was opposition to the proposal to complete the agenda for the first reading of this project. This is according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to complete the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of The adoption of the proposal to supplement the agenda will mean that the Sejm has agreed to the application of the Article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: First reading of the government draft law amending the Education and Education Law Act, print no.3398, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 335 Members voted. Za - 186, against - 142, abstained 7. The Sejm accepted the offer. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and five-minute statements on behalf of the circles in discussions on the first reading of the government draft law amending the Family and Care Code Act and some other laws. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in the debate on the ratification of print 3392. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that in discussions on the other items on the agenda, the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Law on State aid in the raising of children and some other laws (Print No.3387). I ask the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Mrs Elżbieta Rafalska, to present the justification for the bill. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]] Minister, you're welcome. Please, Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy Elizabeth Rafalska. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Four years ago, Prime Minister Beata Szydło presented a vision of the United Right Government during her exposé. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki in his exposé announced the continuation and further development of social programs. And that's what happens. From the very beginning, we have highlighted clearly and precisely the need for family support, the need for investment in the family. This good change in family policy was due to the disappointment of Poles by the governments of the Civic Platform and PSL dinners, when the expectations of the citizens differed from those of the government. The government - it must be made clear - deaf to the needs of families. We saw this in the CBOS study, which showed that a vast minority of Poles, because only 13% in 2013 and 9% in 2012, it was a good assessment of the family policy of the previous government, but above all we heard it from citizens, because our formation regularly, not only during the election campaign, talked to Poles, listening to social needs. [[Voice from the hall: What about the teachers?]] The Family of 500+. Both its launch and the planned expansion of today is the best proof of this. In family policy, we are guided by credibility and consistency. We keep our word, we honour our agreements with society. We've broken the theory for decades that something can't be done, that family support is charity, social assistance. We've stopped, ladies and gentlemen, this is a vicious circle. The 500+ family is the first programme since the transformation, which so clearly emphasizes the need to invest in the family. We're consistent. When we heard mockery and disdain about 500+ from different sides, we were consistently on the side of Polish families, because this criticism was really directed at families, ridiculed families, stigmatized families. Today, after over 3 years of operation of the program, we can say with a clear conscience: this dispute over the future of Poland was won by the Polish family. [[Applause]] In fact, we have all won, our entire community, because thanks to 500+ family policy has ceased to be conducted on an ad hoc basis, at random, and the fruits of economic growth are fairly shared. What the opposition doesn't want to see, they see experts. The 500+ family is a programme that reduces inequalities in society. In Oxfam Poland's research is the world's first priority in expenditure on combating social inequalities. In 2015, the expenditure of the state budget to the family amounted to 1,78% gross domestic product. In 2017 it was 3,11% GDP. We have joined the group of EU leaders who are directing the most resources to support families with children. Thanks to the changes we propose in this amendment, family spending will soon rise to 4%. GDP. So we're talking about an increase in the share of family spending in GDP of 125%. versus 2015 The Centre for Economic Analysis indicates that extending the programme will put Poland first among European countries in terms of spending on family policies. The Centre for Economic Analysis in its report states that the dissemination of education to all children, regardless of family income, will translate into a further increase in total support of families in the system up to PLN 59 billion per year, which represents an increase of more than 200% compared to the level of support in 2015 following the takeover of governments after the two term of office of the Civic Platform and PSL. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, we are pleased that Poles see and appreciate these positive changes for Polish families. According to the CBOS survey, more than 3/5 Poles evaluate the current state policy towards the family at least well. See the gap between the 2013 evaluation and the family policy that we are continuing. This proves that our government's policy is based on strong foundations, values relevant to Poles. The family belongs to the most important ones and to the most persistent ones. The entry into force of the 500+ family programme is the most important change in the family support system with children. It's a program that has become a pillar of financial support for families. The educational provision is completely independent of the other benefits of families with children. Importantly, the provision of education has been introduced into the system of social transfers in such a way that its value is not included in the income criteria limiting entitlement to other family benefits, social assistance benefits or, for example, housing allowances. The essence of the programme is the real support of parents raising children with a high amount of benefits of 6 000. PLN per year for a grown child. So we're talking billions and billions of transfers to families with children. From the start of the programme until the end of March this year. To the families themselves, 68 800 million zlotys and total expenditure on the programme, including the operation of the programme, amounted to 69 800 million zlotys. It is almost 70 billion PLN, which went to families and local governments. Nearly 2,400 thousand use this support. families. We are talking about a solution that is currently in force and which is also linked to the income criterion, and children who receive benefits - because families are less - there are 3640 thousand, and this is also data at the end of March 2019. We've left the families with autonomy. It's the families who decide how to spend the money. It is the rationalness of individual families that depends on how this money is invested and what it is spent on. We welcome the fact that, in the case of a really small number of families, a cash benefit has been converted into a cash benefit in kind. It's a small group, 1,500 families, which is a scale of 3640 thousand. Children's benefits show that the problem is really small, and if we still consider that we have almost 2.5,000. Local authorities, it seems that there is not even one case in every local government where monetary aid has been converted into in-kind aid. Our program pursues three basic objectives. Firstly, support has contributed to a significant reduction in extreme poverty. The greatest improvement in the material situation occurred among families with three or more children. The main role was played by the educational provision introduced on 1 April 2016, which is addressed to families with children, families with children. Better labour market conditions, lower unemployment and rising wages have also played a major role here. Between 2015 and 2017, the level of extreme poverty among families with two children decreased from 4% to 2.2%. Moreover, single parents benefit from this witness because poverty in these families has decreased considerably. Let me give you an example of the poverty of single parents raising their children in the countryside, where the level of this poverty has fallen from 12.1%. up to 0.7% , and so, it can be said that poverty has almost been eradicated there. The risk of poverty or social exclusion among children in Poland was falling as fast as possible among all countries of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, poverty mostly lived in the country. She was more frequent in rural families, more frequent in small towns, in large families. That's changed. In Poland, poverty no longer had a child's face. [[Applause]] That's not the case anymore, although there's still a lot of work to be done. For this change, it was worth the effort to prepare and implement such a programme. I will also refer here to this second factor, which is the fertility factor, which increased from 1.29 in 2015 to 1.45 in 2017, and according to preliminary forecasts in 2018 this indicator has also remained. What do you mean, it's 1.45? Well, ladies and gentlemen, this indicator was recently this high in 1997. It should also be remembered that in Poland there is an increasing rate of multi-childrenity and such a phenomenon that we are growing the number of thirds of births, also recently occurred in 1997. So there is also a clear impact on the growth of children. It is also worth noting that in Poland the number of women aged 15 and 49 has been decreasing for many years, and even faster the number of women aged 20 and 39 is falling, and it is at this age that women are born about 95% All children. In this context, the increase in births and fertility rates in 2016 and 2017 is very good information. Third, we're investing in a family. We often talk to families, we hear - I think even the opposition hears it - how the lives of Polish families have changed, what Polish families can now afford. It's easier for parents to plan their expenses, it's easier to keep their children safe. They can spend more on educational, sports, developing their children's passions. Many studies clearly indicate that. The Family of 500+. programme has contributed significantly to the improvement of the material situation of families. He strengthened them and gave them the priority they deserved. In 2016, disposable income increased by 7%, which is the most important component of this increase since 2008. In 2017, income increased by 6.3%. The income of the poorest families in Poland, families from the first decile group, increased by more than 35%. Changes in dynamics and consumption patterns were also observed between 2016 and 2017, in particular among large families. Despite the increase in expenditure in almost all categories compared to 2014-2015, the share of food and transport expenditure has decreased at the same time, while the importance of more flexible expenditure related to recreation, culture, housing, education and housing has increased. Thanks to the program, we have opened development perspectives for people who have been marginalized so far. Today we want to help families even more. On 23 February, the Law and Justice Convention announced changes, the extension of the 500+ family programme to all children, regardless of income or number of children in the family. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Council of Ministers adopted a draft law amending the Law on State aid to raise children and certain other laws. In the light of the changes designed, the education will go to 4400 thousand. Polish families. Six hundred and eighty thousand will use it. Polish children, i.e. all children who were under 18 years of age. The cost of extending the programme to all children under the age of 18 will be PLN 9600 million this year. Next year it will be about 20 billion more. We want the new formula program to start on July 1st. In this way we will join the group of countries that support families financially, without making this support dependent on the income criterion. This benefit is valid both in the countries of the old Union: Austria, Belgium, Finland, Germany, Ireland, the United Kingdom and in countries which have joined the Community over the last several years: Hungary, Slovakia, Latvia and Estonia. With one move, we solve a few problems. Lone parents who could not benefit from the benefit - often you spoke about it - because of the income criterion, will be given the opportunity from 1 July. The same applies to families with disabled children who, although they had a raised criterion of up to 1,200 PLN, did not benefit from this benefit 100%. The argument that it is a social programme will also disappear. It will be completely unfounded. Income won't matter anymore. We're directing backup to all the children. We invest in both their future and ours. So far, it's been claimed that the income criterion...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u15	Thank you very much, Minister. Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy Elżbieta Rafalska: ...makes women deactivate because parents, fearing that they will exceed the income criterion, quit their jobs or take up work in the gray area. Our data doesn't confirm it at all. Minister, please proceed to the summary. Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy Elżbieta Rafalska: I'm almost done, Marshal. We have also designed several other changes, apart from the fundamental one, which is the elimination of the income criterion. The benefit from the 500+ programme will also be granted to children in care and education institutions. More than 13,500 will benefit from it. children. From 1 July parents will have to apply for 500+ 3 months after the birth of the child. So far it's been a month's period, so we're extending it. Another change concerns the protection of parenting in the event of the death of a parent. From 1 July it will be possible to grant it with its continuity to the second parent. From 2021 onwards, the period for which the educational benefit will be granted annually will begin on 1 June and will run until 31 May of the following year. Minister, you're welcome to leave. Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy Elżbieta Rafalska: This first period will be extended. The procedures for granting the benefit have been simplified. Thanks to these changes, the implementation of the programme will be faster and less costly. The requirement to fix child support from the second parent shall be waived in the case of applications made by the persons declaring the change. Minister, I have extended your speech very much, but we must be on our way to the end. Thank you very much. Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy Elżbieta Rafalska: High Izbo! This is a very good proposal, a very good project that will improve the situation of all Polish families. It's part of our family policy, our groundbreaking family project. I recommend that you accept this project and ask for its support. Thank you. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. First on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice of Marshal Beata Mazurek.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour and pleasure to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the draft law amending the Law on State aid in the upbringing of children and certain other laws, print No 3387. The 500+ family programme is the most important and important project that represents a real breakthrough in the Polish pro-family policy. It is a program that contributes to the growth of children and improves the demography of Poland. It's a programme for the future, because the future of our country is our children. It was he who rebuilt the functioning of families, improved the quality of their lives, their material security and allowed many children's dreams to be realized. A major achievement of the programme is the reduction of poverty - especially among children. It's a program that invests in family. We believe that it is the duty of the state to support families, to invest in human capital, which depends largely on the state's condition. Thanks to the €68 billion programme that has been allocated to families so far, we have created a development perspective for people who have been marginalized. We've restored their dignity. According to the CBOS study, the 500+ family is the best or one of the best ways to support families in almost all socio-demographic groups. The result of the program is, among others. increase in fertility rate from 1.29 in 2015 to 1.45 in 2017 During the same period, extreme poverty among children fell by almost half. [[And in 2018?]] The decline in poverty among families of many children and single parents has also decreased by half. The risk of poverty or social exclusion among children in Poland fell as quickly as possible from all the countries of the European Union. Average support for children in the family increased from PLN 148 in 2015 to PLN 690 in 2017. In 2016, we introduced a 500+ programme in which the second and every subsequent child was entitled to an education benefit regardless of the level of income. Today we are talking about its extension in the same form, so regardless of the level of income, also to the first child. The 500+ family programme includes all children and teenagers, including only children, up to the age of 18, regardless of the income of the family. This will improve the quality of life of all Polish families who have children to support and will complement their comprehensive state policy. It is a proposal that meets the expectations of Poles. Taking all children into consideration means that 4% GDP goes to families. That's an increase in spending by 125%. As of 2015 This level of expenditure on family policy puts Poland at the forefront of European countries, not at the end of it, as it was under the PO-PSL regime. This is proof that support for families is a priority for the Government of Law and Justice. Let me remind you that in 2015 we heard laughter and laughter from the then government representatives of the coalition PO-PSL... [[There was no laughter.]] ...as for family policy at all: there is no money and there will be no money. He said this to you - I address the opposition - the Polish Minister of Finance, [[Applause]] who today is applying for a mandate in the European Parliament from a non-Polish list and is seeking votes from non-Polish voters. We're about to hear that 500+ for the first child was the idea of the opposition. I will say this, knowing your credibility, rather unbelievable, and strongly documented in the media. Let me remind you of your opposition, the words about 500+. This distribution programme is a big trap for the Civic and Modern Platform - it is Mr Trzaskowski. It is a program that is extremely generously divided by money that is not there - it is Mr Lubnauer. Populism must have its limits, it ends with the second Greece, we can bid on giving away, but Poland will lose on it, it cannot be allowed to do so - it is Mr Schetyn. Adam Szejnfeld, in turn, said: Donald Tusk did not have to finance such a program for his rule, because any family could do it alone. Anyone can take a loan, a loan and finance some of their private or family program," said the Member. He added that he was afraid that by the end of the rule of law and justice, this program would end. 500+ we're gonna be connected to work. It can't be that two parents don't work and get paid - it's Urszula Augustine. According to the knowledge of the guru PO, or Donald Tusk, there is no possibility of financing such a project. Moreover, when Jarosław Kaczyński presented the idea in 2014, the idea 500+, then the Prime Minister of PO Donald Tusk mocked, asking where the money was buried. Well, today we see that they were not buried anywhere, they were enough to rule well and honestly. That's not what you said yesterday, that's not what you're gonna say today and that's not what you're gonna do and say tomorrow. Your credibility is zero. You're not worth trusting. I think that your support for families would be that honest Polish families would have to pay 500+ monthly for the budget, because VAT mobs wouldn't have anything to live for. Our club will support the bill because we support Polish families, as no government has ever done, because investment in the family is an investment in the future of Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u17	Thank you very much. Now on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform of Mrs Marzen Okła-Drewnowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u18	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present my position on this bill. I will encourage a single mother to stabilise her family situation and have more children so that she can catch up with this witness in the proverbial way - Beat Mazurek, on 3 February 2016. [[Applause]] Poles want children, they want at least two of them, and they only have one. Our problem number one is not that Poles have one child - Minister Elżbieta Rafalska, 9 February 2016. But the best part is a different statement from Deputy Minister Marczuk. After the Civic Platform Club had tabled an amendment to make 500+ for every child, what did your Minister say? [[Do you take 500+?]] If you are still proposing this kind of amendment, it seems that you want to simply roll over this programme. Three years ago, single mothers were irrelevant and unnecessary. And you didn't see the children from the children's homes, explaining that Prime Minister Szydło, saying: 500+ for every child, at the end of her tongue: for every second and every second, but she forgot. Three years ago, you judged the opposition against honor and faith when... [[The first one was, too.]] ...she's been asking for single mothers or children from the children's homes. For three years, children have been victims of your lies and your discrimination. Who was the first person to really talk about the 500+ program for each child? Ano Grzegorz Schetyn. [[Joy in the Chamber]] When you told us that the Platform was taking away 500+ from people, Grzegorz Schetyn was clear: we're not taking 500+, we're gonna give those who PiS lied to and discriminated against. You know why? Because this is the basis for responsible politicians. Regardless of how comprehensively they evaluate a given programme, their goal is to restore justice. That's what we're different from you. And we say to all Poles: Nothing that this government has given you will be taken away from you. We'll give you back everything this government has taken from you. [[Applause]] You no longer hide the fact that this program is not prodemographic at all. Facts are inexorable: 13 thousand were born in 2018. children less than in 2017 With the current government policy, there is no chance of going back to 413,000. births of 2010 That's why we broke the death record. In 2018, 414 thousand died, which is a post-war record, and thus the natural growth was minus 26 thousand. And do you know what true social policy means, how does our social Poland differ from your social Poland? During our reigns in times of crisis, we invested in crèches, the program "Milch', the kindergarten for gold, we introduced annual parental leave, one of the longest in Europe, paternity leave, 1000 PLN of parental benefit every month for a year, among others. For students, unemployed, farmers, educational insurance, the funding of the nannies you actually limited. We've created opportunities and opportunities. Today you think you're gonna get people's votes for a couple of zlotys, that, as the president of your party TV said, the dark people are gonna buy it. He won't buy it. What happened when you suddenly decided to straighten out your lies and give up your hypocrisy? For three years, Rydzyk's father, the TVP propagandist, the Smoleńsk conspirators from Macierewicz, was given money by streams. It wasn't enough for the kids. To give 500+ fair today, you will not take Father Rydzyk or Kursk or Macierewicz. You're gonna take every hard-working Pole 15% from his OFE account, finally pulling out the accounts on the occasion of the 10 new taxes you've introduced. And since there are no more illusions about the essence of your policy, we make an important commitment. Social policy will always be fair, it must not discriminate against single mothers or disabled people who had to beg you dramatically, from the level of the Seym floor. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u19	Thank you. Now Mr Maciej Masłowski on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u20	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! I think it would be good at first for people, for citizens who are watching this debate, to explain, to quote, to recall what the 500+ programme was based on. The main objective of this demographic policy was to make it demographic growth, to increase birth rates, because our social welfare system, the social system, is collapsing. We're gonna have an incredible crisis in 10 and 20 years. This is because life expectancy is increasing and births are falling. Children who are born today will not be able to keep us in our potential pensions in the future. As a result, the establishment of the 500+ programme was to increase this childhood. As early as 2015, and in fact in 2016, when we discussed the 500+ programme in this House, the State indicated in the explanatory memorandum that even if everything is successful, if everything succeeds according to your assumptions, the childhood ratio will jump from 1.3 to 1.5. To explain this to the citizens, I'm going to say that this is something like this: one day 100 women had 130 children, and now they're going to have 150 children. It's just that, ladies and gentlemen, it's still not enough. We could take an example from other countries where the fertility rate is 3.0 or even 3.5 or 5. It means that the countries are dealing with this problem. We don't, ladies and gentlemen. Of course, as Kukiz,15 we are glad that Polish families have more money that they can take their children on vacation, but the main idea was that these children should be born more, so that there would be a replacement of generations. Ladies and gentlemen, where does the 500+ money come from? It must be emphasized here that this is not government money, Prime Minister Morawiecki does not take it out of his pocket. I mean, he's pulling it out of the citizens' pockets because every citizen pays taxes. In these taxes, is this even 10 gr in the case of fuel... Someone says, "I don't have a car, it doesn't concern me." But in order for children's bread, powdered milk, or plain milk, or fruit to prove to the store, you need to refuel the car. Every increase in each tax and the introduction of a new tax makes us, all citizens, fall to 500+. It's important that it's 500+ well distributed. You implemented this programme in 2016 commonly called 500+ and the childhood was expected to increase. In the beginning, it actually jumped up, but, ladies and gentlemen, you know very well that this is not good. Because: in 2016 - 382 thousand. births, then 402,000. births, and in 2018 - 388 thousand. births. This indicator, the fertility factor, was 1.29, 1.36, 1.45. You know very well that in 2018 - We don't have the data yet - it's going to be much lower. According to your plan, 280,000 were to be born within 10 years. more children than before, i.e. after the full 3 years that are completed, should be born 90,000. children more. Sixty-five thousand were born. children. That's $25,000. It's not enough. Ladies and gentlemen, when it was 500 PLN for the second child and another, this system cost about 23 billion. Now it's going to cost 40 billion. I would like to stress once again: Kukiz.15 is very much in favour of all family projects, but on the other hand, we also have to think with common sense about the overall budget. At a time when we have no money, because for many years we have been in debt to the budget, it is not art to manage the finances, constantly increasing our debt, and then just to keep creative accounts so that the European Union does not stick. It should also be remembered that the number of singles in this country is approximately 29%. 25% people live in families with zero children. As Kukiz,15 we want to help and we help all the time. We submit draft laws: a reduction in electricity prices, a reduction in fuel prices. We wanted VAT to fall from 23% to 22%. It didn't work. We put together a project to reduce VAT on children's clothes, because even if the parent gets 500 zlotys, he goes to the cash register and pays for anything for his child, he actually has 385 zlotys left, because 115 zlotys in taxes. Ladies and gentlemen, the great economist of this term of office of the Sejm sleeps. Rafał Wójcikowski spoke about the concept of negative income tax, in this case the concept of negative labour costs. Let's tax people off, let them make money, and then, in fact, it will have as much support as possible, as much as possible. ♪ The moment we hold ♪ [[♪ The bell ♪]] Tax wedge on people, we're not gonna let people make money, that's not gonna work. So let's work this out together. With us at the Kukiz Club15... [[The presidency includes Deputy Marshal of the Seym Beata Mazurek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u21	Finish your work, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u22	I'm almost done, Marshal. With us at the club, most of them will probably be behind this project. Perhaps the votes of those who hold back will be against. This will be caused by budget concern, so that we do not continue to owe the budget to small children. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u23	Thank you, sir. Mr Krystian Jarubas, Mr PSL - The Union of European Democrats will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u24	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I am pleased to present my position towards the government's draft law amending the Law on State aid in raising children and certain other laws, print No. 3387. Ladies and gentlemen! Better late than later. Three years - that's how long it took the representatives of the PiS to come to their senses. The question, however, is whether it really is a good change, or maybe a political calculation. If in 2016, in February, you would support our proposal to extend the 500+ programme to every child, no one would be able to accuse you that today you are acting solely to save your own government stools, that you are acting for political applause and for voters' votes. Ladies and gentlemen! From April 2016 to April 2019 it has been 3 years. Because you rejected our amendment, families with their first child who crossed the income threshold lost 18,000. zł. When we organized the action, the first child was not worse, you were against it. The next question is: How are you going to compensate those last three years for those who lost their 500+ benefit because of you? [[Bożen Boris-Raccoon: They have lost nothing.]] Yes. Perhaps you are not even aware that there are such people in Poland. Already last year we warned that the 500+ payout threshold for the first child was not moving, i.e. did not increase with the rise of the lowest salary. At times a family who exceeded the income threshold by 5 zlotys lost their benefits. On the scale of Poland there are thousands of such cases. They are usually inefficient people who have become victims of the system because of the tardiness of the rulers. This could, of course, be avoided by introducing, as we have proposed, the principle of gold for the benefit of 500+. Of course, the government didn't do it. [[Voice from the room: 8 years.]] As we hear: 8 years, 8 years... [[Voice from the room: Because there was so much.]] [[Voice from the room: OFE.]] So the question is: Whether you are thinking today, ladies and gentlemen, in any way, to compensate for your mistake to the poorest who have been temporarily deprived of this benefit. [[Voice from the room: Return your pensions.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm. At the cost of the entire programme, such compensation may not be spectacularly burdensome, but for many families such assistance may be priceless. I understand that the rapid pace of work on the project is dictated by the electoral calendar. It's okay. This mode part of Poles will remember as an expression of shame. As a constructive opposition, we will not take the opportunity to benefit from additional benefits from Poles. However, we will try, ladies and gentlemen, despite the crazy pace of work on the project, to suggest something that has escaped. Decentness requires reflection on our suggestion of those temporarily deprived of the benefit. That is what I am appealing to the rulers today. If there are billions on party television, maybe they'll be for the poorest parents. Ladies and gentlemen! Without doubt, of course, the club of the Polish People's Party - the European Union of Democrats will support the proposed law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u25	Thank you. Mr Paweł Pudłowski, the Modern Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u26	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to recall the words of Mrs Margaret Thatcher: The state has no source of money other than the money people learn themselves, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] which means that there is no such thing as public money. If the government says it's gonna give somebody something, it's gonna take you, Polko and the Pole who work hard because the government doesn't have their own money. 500+ for the first child, yes, it is the same change that PiS Members rejected with 226 votes. And President Kaczyński rejected, and Mr Marshal Kuchciński, and Mr Terlecki, and Mrs Pawłowicz, even Minister Rafalska also rejected. You said you didn't have any money for it. When we voted on the 2019 budget last December, there was no money for that either. So what changed? Is there money for that today? No, they're not here today either, but the fear of lost elections caused by the creation of the European Coalition is greater than the laws of mathematics and budgetary rules. [[It's a joke of the week.]] All working Poles will pay for Kaczyński's five. The government will raise this money from higher taxes and fees or borrow an account from future generations. This government is looting hard-working. In addition, since the beginning of the PiS term, prices of water, electricity, garbage exports, fuel, food have increased dramatically. The yeast is common. Emission charges, recycling fees, solidarity fees have been introduced. PiS maintained a 23 percent VAT contribution, although he promised to reduce it. It is planned to raise more than PLN 1200 million of new taxes on those active in business who will fail the entrepreneurship test. The Prime Minister promises to give us our money back from the OFE, but with a little print, he adds that he's gonna take a 15% racket. Who would stay in a bank that charges 15% for a transfer from an account to an account ? [[Voice from the room: Better take everything.]] According to the published update of the convergence plan, the Ministry of Finance has already assumed an impact on this transformation fee of PLN 19.3 billion. The government's financial activity is creative accounting. Maybe that's why the Minister of Finance hasn't spoken decisively for over a month. Where is Minister Czerwińska? [[At work.]] On the other hand, asking for anonymity of a person from the Ministry of Finance tells the press: The situation is difficult and will require many risky accounting procedures. It may work for a year, but you can't plan every budget like this. Says the person in the middle of the Ministry of Finance. [[Any evidence?]] Prime Minister Morawiecki, on the other hand, at a meeting with residents of Shooting on 23 March, talks about the consequences of promises. He says we've decided to increase the budget deficit. This means that the social programs of the PiS, those and those that the government may be introducing before the autumn elections, will be financed by a new debt, not, as we were previously persuaded, from the money taken from the VAT mobs. Debt, ladies and gentlemen, at the top of the economic cycle, is a typical strategy of a grasshopper. The promotion of the 500+ programme presents it only as a success and social gain. In fact, the majority of the population is financially losing it, bearing its high costs by paying taxes at the lowest tax-free amount in the European Union. There is a shortage of oncology medications, nurses, doctors, residents, teachers, social workers, judicial staff, etc. So what is the amendment of the law and all five of Kaczyński? It is clearly an electoral sausage proposed in an irresponsible manner by the PiS. Everyone lacks money, we all want to make more money or get even better, but someone in the family has to be a responsible parent and tell them honestly that money has to be given back. The money you are borrowing, future generations will have to pay back or you will have to charge the Poles working with higher taxes and additional charges. Let us promote work, promote economic freedom, promote Poles who support our country. Let us help the poorest, but wisely, by educating, activating. Let's get a fishing rod, not a fish. In our view, this project cannot be supported responsibly today. Dear Pole! For all the promises of the PiS you will pay for yourself. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u27	Now, please take the floor of Mr Jack Wilk, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u28	Mrs. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! I'd like to say it again, didn't I tell you? From the very beginning of the discussion about the 500+ programme, I have made it clear that this is not a prodemographic program, because it will not give birth to any more children. For a simple reason: a system has not yet been invented anywhere in the world, thanks to which people are giving birth to the state. People only give birth to themselves because they want to have children. On the other hand, systems have been invented that prevent people from having children that discourage them from having children. Such a system is the Polish pension system. One big disaster. A system that screams: you're an idiot when you have kids, count on your neighbor's kids, they'll keep you retired. And here is the solution to the demographic problem, here we need to correct, not with transfers that first take away money from parents in taxes, and then they kindly return it, with a deduction of the margin that the government is taking away for its own expenses. There's one plus the 500+ system. One plus. He showed that when a family has more resources, many women decide to stay at home and work at home, for example. Three kids. And that's what proves that it's only when we increase the income of the family that women decide to work at home with three and more children. But this requires an increase in the income of the family, which means a reduction in taxation rather than imposing new obligations on women. Women don't want to have children for the simple reason that they work two or three jobs. They work at work and then they have to work at home. If we don't change that, no child will grow. The Left screams how unlucky it is that women work less because the Left claims it's the work that makes them free. No, it's the fruits of labor that make them free. The fruits of labor, here's the solution. If we want to increase fertility, we need to fundamentally change the pension system and increase the income of the family. However, there is another huge threat that results from such catastrophic systems. No, I'm sorry, before I talk about this threat, I'm gonna tell you what's gonna happen. So no more children are born, but the burden on children is increasing because children are increasingly indebted. Each Polish child is born with a debt of about 100,000. zł, taking into account also the debt of the pension system. Who's gonna pay it off? If these children grow up, will they want to pay for it or will they leave Poland? This is a disaster, ladies and gentlemen, the debt of people who don't even know what income, income, wealth is yet, and everything they make in their lives is set up in foreign banks. This is your policy. There's another downside to this kind of transfer systems, socialist ones. This is leading people into slavery, because sooner or later some politician will come up with an idea to make transfers addicted to some kind of action. He'll say, for example.: you get 500+ if you vaccinate children, or: you get 500+ if you teach them at a certain school, etc. This actually means that people's income will depend on government and civil servants. This is a straight path to slavery, ladies and gentlemen. The wealth of Polish families does not come from the fact that the government gives money that it will steal first. It's taken from the fact that we're leaving these families the income they have. A man lives a decent life when he lives out of his work, not out of money robbed by the government and given to him by grace for his joy and when he deducts his own costs. This is a worthy life. That's why it won't work, there won't be an increase in childhood. Get it over with. You buy people with their own money because you think people are idiots, but people know that. Leave the money in the taxpayers' pockets and the childhood will increase. Then more women will be willing to stay home and raise a third child and a fourth child. This is the only way to reverse the demographic disaster. That's why I think the U.S.S.S. should be destroyed. Thank you very much. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u29	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the people of Trzcianne Municipality and the village hostels of Szorce, the Association of Watermen, are listening to the meeting. I'm very happy to welcome you. I also welcome the young people listening to our deliberations and sitting at the gallery. [[Applause]] Please take the floor of Mr Richard Petru, near Now!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u30	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm against this bill because it's Gierka's way - borrowing, handing out, and finally insolvent. Such irresponsible policies always end in a crisis, which is why I am already proposing that this project be rejected at first reading. What was the 500+ for? More children were to be born, and 13,000 were to be born last year. less than in 2017. This is the result of your pseudo-family politics. Thanks to your governments, Poland today has the lowest natural growth in Europe. 500+ was supposed to be a demographic programme, and it's a purely social programme. I don't want 500+ to go to the richest... [[Voice from the room: Give it back.]] ...that's why today, at second reading, I'm going to propose an amendment introducing a threshold of income from which 500+ doesn't belong. As a result of this amendment we can save 5 billion PLN. Enough to raise 600 PLN for teachers. I expect the High House to support this amendment. And if the amendment fails, I appeal to all the wealthy parents: take this money and go vote against the PiS. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Don't let them blackmail you morally. For he who spends not his money over measure is immoral in order to keep himself in power. There is another solution: instead of 500 PLN for the first child, I propose to transfer 250 PLN. This will save PLN 9.6 billion and raises for teachers would cost 8.4 billion. Thus, reducing 500+ for the first child up to 250 PLN, there would be money for teachers, and for disabled people. For almost four years you have convinced Poles that we cannot afford 500+ for the first child. So? Did the money come in? [[Yes.]] There's nothing there. Offering a 15% racket for transferring our savings from OFE to IKE shows that there was never money to finance Kaczyński's Fridays. You want to take 24 billion out of our pensions because that's exactly how much lower they're going to be. 5 billion you want to take away from those whose annual income exceeds 30 salaries. You want to squeeze over 1 billion through the tax authorities' checks, which will decide: this one has a company, and this one has to go on a job. It is oppressive socialism in a pure form and it is only a way of financing the five Kaczyńskis for one year. And what about the years after that? [[Voice from the room: Genius.]] You're counting on people to pick a black hole... [[We can do this.]] ...what is the Social Security Office to pass on its pensions there? Margaret Thatcher already said that the problem with socialism is that you're running out of money. And you're out of money. Ladies and gentlemen! Recently, a 38-year-old father of three died in Silesia because he did not receive any help, waiting 6 hours in line for the SOR. So what if it's not $1,000? Now his children will receive 1500 PLN when he is dead? It is the responsibility of the government to ensure that the state in its basic functions simply acts. And it doesn't work today. Today we are facing a civilizational choice: Poland on benefits or Poland working, Poland social, distribution or liberal. 500+ money could free all entrepreneurs from PIT, double education and double teachers' salaries, eliminate queues in health care and allocate 7% GDP for health protection. But that's not gonna happen. Because PiS wants to buy votes with your money. Today's vote for 500+ is the end of Poles' dreams of friendly health care without queues. This is the end of pensioners' dreams of a decent value for their pensions in the future. This is the end of students' dreams of a modern school with well-earned teachers. Because you can't finance everything. There are many more urgent needs in Poland. Each member of this Sejm voting in favour of the Kaczyński Package takes full responsibility for future economic problems, for our homeland, for public finances and for future generations. At times of extreme populism, courage and responsibility are needed. Politicians who believe that everyone can be bought bear witness only to themselves. You can promise anything. But the economy can't be fooled. Prosperity never came from benefits - it always came from work. No country, no society was strong or rich, spending money that wasn't there. Today is a test of courage and responsibility. Regardless of who will be Prime Minister of the future government, he will have to deal with the problem from which to finance it all. I appeal to you: Do not give them this satisfaction, skip this trap, vote against. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because Poles deserve reason, not welfare. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Genius.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u31	I would now like to ask the floor of Mrs Margaret Zwierzan, near Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u32	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position towards the government's draft law amending the Law on State aid in the upbringing of children and certain other laws. It is not the first time we have the opportunity to see how important values and investment in the family are for the current government. This proof, among others. is the increase in the lowest pensions, the adoption of the thirteenth pension, the pension granted to mothers who raised four and more children, and the implementation of one of its priorities, which is the Family 500+. I therefore welcome the fact that today's draft law extends this programme also to the first child. Thanks to the billion-dollar measures passed on to families, poverty among Polish children has been eradicated. This is the undeniable and most valuable result of the implementation of this programme. Some families went on vacation for the first time in 2016, others finally can afford additional activities, developing passions and interests of children. I am convinced that many families today have a lighter life thanks to these measures. Today's project, however, is not only the allocation of additional money to families, but also the inclusion of all children up to the age of 18, including those who are staying in nursing homes. The proposed amendments are also the introduction of a 3-month period from the birth of the child to submit an application, which will be equivalent to the granting of the benefit from the date of birth, the introduction of rules allowing continuity in the payment of funds in the event of the death of the parent to whom the benefit has been granted for a given period, and a number of other facilities facilitating the transition of the administrative path to receiving the money. You can say that this is a distribution, that there is no money for this program, as the total opposition has said since the beginning of its operation. One might argue that this money is lazying Polish women who are withdrawing from the labour market. However, as practice has shown, this is not true. I trust that without undue polemics, we will all agree to support this solution. As the applicants point out, almost PLN 68 billion has been spent since the launch of the programme. It is an amount that is impressive, but not because it is large, but because it is in the pockets of Polish families. The Free and Solidarni Circle supports this project in its entirety. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u33	Thank you. Mr Jan Klaviter, not associated, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u34	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The 500+ programme in the previous version is a very significant program for Polish families, a positive program. His main objectives are to try to reduce the demographic disaster, because that is what we need to talk about, and to reduce the level of poverty in Polish families. While the second objective, as was apparent from previous speeches, can be said, has been achieved in a significant part, and very well, the first one - only to a small extent. It cannot be said that it has not been achieved at all, because it is not possible to give responsible absolute values about births here, only the fertility rate, because this is an objective measure of our goal, but unfortunately it has only been achieved to a small extent. The right hand of the Republic, which I represent, was and is opposed to extending the program 500+ to the first child. Our main objective is to remove the spectrum of demographic disaster, because this is the subject we are talking about in our House and the new project does not change anything in this area. Of course, it will not change in terms of poverty either. Let's face it, in terms of demographic disaster, which is one of the top challenges, it's not going to change anything. Therefore, the price of this action is too high. It is positive that there will be no such combinations, avoiding e.g. work, just to get the first... So far it has been that if someone wanted to lower their income, they often avoided work, because then on the first child works 500+. These are subtle positive elements of this proposal, but it is much too expensive. It's not worth spending such a huge amount for that purpose. We need to get this money involved in defending our demography. This money has to be directed to other activities. There were proposals to improve e.g. the situation of women who have, say, a few children when they retire. With regard to this project, which was implemented by the PiS, this concerns the fourth child, mothers who did not receive e.g. retirement or retirement less than PLN 1100, they received a supplement. That's not enough. It was an unfair project because those mothers who worked didn't get the right compensation. That is why we need to think about compensating mothers for the enormous effort and time they have spent caring for their children. And it's not here, it's missing in this program, because what we did in the program, let's say, for mothers of four children and more, it's too little. Families need to be encouraged to have a second child and other children. This can be done in many ways. It is difficult to list all ways in such a short time, but among others. you can go into tax relief, especially for the second and the next child, but you need to take dedicated action in this direction. This giant money should go, it should be used for this type of action, because unfortunately the extension of the program to 500+... Let's imagine those parents who... So far, the average wage is almost 5,000. zł. I bet if you look at the average salary of those who aren't in the 500+ program, it's definitely 7,000. And more. And we are helping in how formally to those who are well-situated, we will not improve demography and reduce poverty, and that should be our main goal. We're wasting a little bit of money. I appeal to the government - let's try to find some time to think about how to improve the disastrous demographic situation, because unfortunately this programme will not change that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u35	Thank you. Mr Robert Majk, not associated, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u36	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It is very right for my previous speaker to comment on the demographic problem of Poles. I wanted to say that one of the factors that affects the reduction of children in Poland is abortion. If we don't break this enchanted circle, the situation will be more and more tragic. I wanted to ask the Minister if the Minister is aware of the economic state of the Polish state, because I asked this in my interpellation and to this day I did not learn this from Prime Minister Morawiecki. Then, when there is a lack of funding for Polish families, how is it that citizens in Israel receive $100 for their pensions? Explain that. In my opinion... For me it is simply a horror, because first you should take care of your country, the Polish state, about Poles, and only then think about other actions. Time is running out, and I wanted to point out that the issue is not only about the financial resources that we can make, but about the financial resources, please, countries that have flown from the Polish economy to the western banks over 30 years, and that is something that we are not talking about. Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u37	Thank you. Ms Elżbieta Rafalska, Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy, asked for the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u38	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to refer to one element, which has gone through almost all the club speeches, and is related to the problem of childhood in the context of the 500+ family programme. I wanted to say that analyzing the absolute values alone leads to a distortion of the picture of the changes that are taking place. And, ladies and gentlemen, comparing year to year, year 2017 to year 2018 and year 2019, without analyzing the impact of other factors, is really a road to nowhere. This decrease in birth rates in 2018 is due to a decreasing number of women of childbearing potential. Ladies and gentlemen, in June 2018, the number of women aged 20 to 39 was almost 110 thousand. less than the year before. 110,000. This is the massive loss of women in this age group, which includes women who have a 95% birth rate. All children. This is due to the ageing process of women born during the booming period at the turn of the 1970s and 1980s. This means that the increase in births in 2016 and 2017 and the relatively small decrease in births in 2018 were related to the rapidly falling number of women of childbearing potential. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a forecast of a change in the size of the population of women of the age in which children are most often born. Look at the dynamic decline we have in this age group of 20 and 39 years. This is a drop in the 20s, and this is in the next age group, up to 49 years old. This deep drop will continue until 2024. Rather, we should answer the question: What would be the childhood if this program were not in force? [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we must refer to the fertility rate. If we say that the fertility rate in 2017 was 1.45 and increased from 1.29 and is the highest since 1997, that means that the fertility rate is rising. Because what concerns the population of women at that age, when they decide to have children, we simply are not able to change. But for such analytical honesty, it is possible to look at the impact assessment or the forecasts of the Central Statistical Office. Ladies and gentlemen, the most optimistic demographic forecast of the GUS in 2014 and 2050 predicted that in 2018 the number of births would be 379 thousand. So we can say that the number of births is much higher than what the CUS predicted. Now let us refer to the impact assessment of the regulation that we had attached to the Act at the moment when we introduced this programme in 2016. The impact assessment to the Introductory Act said that the actual number of births would be higher than the high forecasts of the Central Statistical Office. This means that by introducing a parenting service, they have decided to give birth to a child who may not have made such a decision without the support of this program. Ladies and gentlemen, speaking precisely about the fact that this program doesn't affect fertility is really illegal. Remember, too, that we are growing in the scale of many children. This scale of multiplicity applies to families with three children. This is also a phenomenon - I spoke about it in my introductory speech - which has not been in place since 1997. Of course, parents' decisions, which are autonomous, personal, affect not only these programs, but also the economic situation, the situation on the labour market, increased access to social services, because all this is important for parents. But we absolutely cannot depreciate the 500+ family programme in this respect. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u39	Thank you. Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of you like to join the list of people asking questions? I can't see. I'm closing the list. [[And how many people are registered?]] As far as I can tell, 32 people. Mr Szczerba will be the first question to be asked. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u40	High Izbo! Minister! I would like to claim elementary justice here. We welcome this amendment, and we are pleased that more children will be covered by the 500+ programme. But in this program, Minister, there are still shortcomings. It's about 17,000. Polish children who are in institutional foster care, i.e. in children's homes. Once again, the 17,000. children are excluded from the program. [[Voice from the room: No, it's not.]] What's the reason? The Ombudsman also draws attention to this issue. According to the Ombudsman, this is a violation of equal treatment. Minister! Green schools are starting. Children in foster care, and this family care, and this institution, will benefit from it. We're already in trouble today. Why 17,000? children in children's homes are excluded from this program? [[That's not true.]] Why these regulations did not come into force before and also at the moment [[♪ The bell ♪]] aren't they confirmed? Thank you very much. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: You are not up to date.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u41	Thank you, sir. The question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Truskolas, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u42	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The state plays an important role in the process of supporting families in raising children. It's not just in the social program, which is 500+ or 500+ for the first child you promised four years ago, and it's only now during the election campaign that you want to introduce. This support also applies to universal access to free education. I am therefore surprised that during the ongoing protest of teachers and educational workers, we do not discuss their demands in the Sejm. I would like to express my admiration for all teachers and educational workers who are protesting, actually fighting for a decent life and calling for respect for their profession. If PiS really wants to implement a real state aid scheme in raising children, let it finally start talking to teachers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u43	The question is asked by Mrs Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u44	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The Minister spoke here about credibility, consequences. I know one thing - it's parents, fathers who work abroad, and children with mothers stay here. They have not received a penny in three years - not a penny - while still waiting to be decided that the money is theirs. So I don't know where these spending amounts come from, since there are a lot of these people. I've been getting eight of these in the last month. Explain the difference. Please don't be a storyteller, just tell me about the specifics, about the people who don't get the money. I don't know where you're gonna get the money for this, and I'm afraid you're gonna print it because there's no money for all this stuff. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u45	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Stefan Romecki, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u46	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Way of Youth in the Gallery! Of course, as the Kukiz citizens' movement15, we are in favour of the bill. To prove it, I talked to a teacher in the country who said that children are now coming to school full and clean. But I also have questions: Wouldn't it be better to lower taxes, introduce a higher tax-free amount, or wouldn't it be possible to reduce VAT on children's clothes? Why were children from children's homes noticed only now? For a long time, Mr Kukiz has been asking many times. And my motto is, what we're gonna give to the kids and the young people, they're gonna give it back to us. So let us give them as much good as possible, and they will repay us in the same way. Let us remember our children, our young people, because they are our national treasure, and let us take care of our children and young people. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Stefan, but for or against?]] [[Voice from the room: He doesn't know.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u47	Thank you. The question is asked by Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u48	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen at the Gallery! The bill on the extension of the 500+ programme is, in fact, putting Members, all Members, against the wall of moral dilemma: who is not behind this project is against children. That's not how it works, it's disgusting, and it's primarily a false alternative. You are proposing a terriblely expensive and inefficient service, while we, Kukiz, for 3 years, have been proposing laws that can be more expensive, much cheaper and much more efficient, improve the situation of Polish families, without increasing bureaucracy and without causing inflation, in addition to thinking about all families, also those who are just thinking about the child. Let's bet on effectiveness, not populism. Ready solutions have been in your marshal's drawer for three years. Let's raise the tax-free amount, reduce VAT on children's clothes, pay off the work. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's just, Minister, aren't these solutions too...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u49	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u50	...precise to you? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u51	I would ask you to ask Mr Richard Wilczyński, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u52	Minister! The correlation between the labour market situation and childhood is highest in Europe, which is the highest in Europe. Who said that? Madam. Let me remind you: 0.89 . Who said that within 10 years we should reach a fertility rate of 1.6? Madam. Who says he's gonna swallow his own language if the birth rate doesn't exceed 400,000?? Madam. Therefore, Minister, it is time to face the facts. The birth of one child in connection with the 500+ programme over the demographic calculation of the CSO is a cost of PLN 1-1,5 million. It is time for a real debate about the demographic situation in Poland, because these programmes will not solve this problem. If it hadn't been deleted in vitro, we'd have had three, four, maybe five thousand. children more. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's one of the elements you have to go back to. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u53	Thank you. The question is asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u54	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Citizens! We didn't have to wait long to find out that after five Kaczyński will follow ten Morawiecki, a new list of fees and taxes you will have to collect to finance new plans. Because the truth is, to spend, you have to make money, except you spend, and the citizens make money. The truth is, once it's out of this podium, the government doesn't have any money, because 92%. the budget is the taxes paid there by the working Poles. If you want to spend 43 billion PLN, 43 billion will have to be paid into this budget. Yes, it's immoral to spend someone else's money in order to keep themselves in power. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u55	The question is asked by Mrs Magdalena Kochan, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u56	High Izbo! 3 years ago, PiS announced a great success - 500+ for each child. Then it turned out to be 52%. Children, or nearly half of them, did not benefit, including those raised by single parents. You are in such a hurry to announce a second success - now we are repairing it, giving what we did not give 3 years ago, 500+ for every child - you are in such a hurry that you have not noticed that in the universality of this witness there is no need to bureaucratize it. Just change the realist of this benefit, e.g. on the ZUS or KRUS, so that it is paid to each child by the so-far realizer of universal benefits, as so far. You're in such a hurry to cover Kaczynski's tapes, KNF, Macierewiczów, Misiewiczów... [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] ... God knows who else, and you're in such a hurry to get to that power that you haven't noticed that the children of the children's homes should have these funds raised in funds. [[♪ The bell ♪]] trusts so they can have an easier start in adulthood. Lack of competence... [[Voice from the room: You had time for this.]] ...or a lack of time? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u57	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Grzegorz July, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u58	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! It's very nice that after three years you decided to do what you promised. The Civic Platform made it clear that if we give money for children, then the principle of social justice requires that we give for all, because single mother and child have no easier than a wealthy family with high incomes of two or three children. My question is: How do you plan to do this and who do you plan to do, because social workers are already at the end of their endurance? The average earnings in this group of people are PLN 1902 per hand. Social workers have been trying to draw attention to themselves for a long time, and the Polish Federation of Social Workers and Social Assistance is planning a nationwide protest at the turn of June and July. The Minister shifts responsibility to local governments, which are still deprived of additional resources. What are you going to offer them? Or, like in middle school exams, catechists and foresters are gonna do the math, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Or maybe it'll be just like the Honourable Minister who ordered the teachers... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] To give birth to children? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u59	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u60	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I wanted to ask you about the implementation of this programme because it is implemented by local authorities. The Minister did not say that this law almost halves the cost of service, i.e. not its costs, but the reimbursement to local authorities of the cost of operating the programme. So far it's been 1.5%. And this bill introduces 0.85%. I mean, people need a lot more. It's a transfer of costs to local governments. This is the first case. Tell me why you're doing this. And the second thing: children's allowances in nursing homes. The Act very imprecisely determines what is going on with this money, which is intended for children in institutions. It should be clarified who will have them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u61	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u62	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! 150 years ago, Alexis de Tocqueville said that democracy ends when the government realizes that it can bribe people with its own money. Minister, is this the day? You just do everything... [[We're not bribing. We share.]] ...to bring this country to ruin. You've never once been able to fund your sick ideas from a surplus budget you don't have. Most European countries have a budget surplus, and you owe this country an unrepentant debt. [[Poland. No: this country, Poland.]] All this debt will be paid to our children. You're completely irresponsible. All five Kaczyńskis are simply immoral proposals. This is the top of the peaks that you bring to a situation where you take money from people who work to give money to people who don't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u63	The question is asked by Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u64	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, A riddle for the marshal. Who said these words: In the long run... [[In what mode?]] ...that's not going to build us GDP. You need investment and savings more than consumption. And let me remind you, 500+ is on credit. Will your marshal tell us if she represented the Law and Justice Club, who said those words?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u65	Member, this is not a game show. Time's up, ma'am.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u66	That's what Prime Minister Morawiecki said. He said it would be on credit, and you didn't quote those words. Very strange. You are neither good Santas nor good uncles, because you have recently taken 8 billion zlotys from VAT. 8 billion PLN of VAT. Today you say you're good uncles, and everyone paid for it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What about the families that have... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] You're very elegant. I was gonna say it from that bleacher... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Time is up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u67	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Małgorzata Chmiel, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u68	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! For three years, we've been trying to make 500+ fairer and deserved to be single mothers and children in nursing homes. Of course, we are glad that you have finally granted us the right, but it is a pity that this is an electoral movement, not a desire to help those in need. You couldn't do it right away, you just waited three years to make that gesture in the election campaign. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: 'Cause you robbed it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u69	The question is asked by Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u70	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The main feature of family-friendly activities and demographic development activities is their universality. The effectiveness of such programs is proven, among others. studies carried out in the United States. The simple replacement of generations guarantees a fertility rate of 2,16. The increase in the fertility rate from 1.29 to 1.45 is a good direction, but it must be maintained to exceed level 2.16 and give a chance to develop our nation. Minister! I would like to ask if there is a programme to monitor the effectiveness of the newly introduced solutions. I would also like to remind you that in 1992, the trade union was paying attention to the drastic decline in the ratio. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Childhood and the effects that...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u71	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u72	...calls in the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u73	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u74	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to ask you how you feel about the forecast of the extension of the 500+ family programme in terms of childhood and how you predict demographic change over the next 20 and 25 years, i.e. just generations. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u75	Thank you. The question is asked by Małgorzata Płępek, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u76	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is a good thing that we are finally debating the proposals that Members of the Civic Platform have already been seeking in 2016 and we have finally seen 500+ for the first child. I have a few questions. It is estimated that the expansion of 500+ will cost the state budget over PLN 30 billion in 2019 and over PLN 40 billion in 2020. In 2016, there was no money for it, but it was now, of course, now before the elections. Where's the government going to get that money? Can the government provide specific sources from which it intends to raise funds for this purpose? There isn't one for teachers. Has this law improved the payment of benefits to families where one parent works abroad? These families have huge problems receiving [[♪ The bell ♪]] benefits.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u77	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u78	I feel like the Minister is pretending to be okay, and my parents are waiting. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u79	I would like to ask Mr Marcin Porzuck, the Law and Justice question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u80	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, I wanted to ask how many billions of zlotys went to Polish families living in villages and smaller towns. I'm asking you this for one reason. The leader of the Polish People's Party in my district, in the Pilski district, on the social network promotes materials for the 500+ program. Regional politicians of the Civic Platform did the same. What's their credibility? I think the Poles will answer that question. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u81	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Anna Cicholska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u82	Thank you. Dear Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! The 500+ programme is the best social, pro-family program that could be dreamed of. This programme reduced poverty among Polish families. The kids don't come to school hungry anymore. [[Don't talk, woman.]] Dear Minister, To what extent has the depletion of Polish families decreased, what is the percentage of poverty reduction at national level and specifically in my Mazowieckie voivodship? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u83	Thank you. The question is asked by Marcin Święcicki, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u84	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! In January this year we adopted the state budget for 2019. At that time, PiS explained that this budget is well-calculated, everything is balanced. There's no money for teachers, no money for disabled people. It has not been two or three months and new programmes are entering, very expensive, while the budget adopted in January this year is being cancelled, the Public Finance Act is annulled, which tells us how different budget lines can be changed. In this bill, in order to finance this programme, the Minister of Finance receives extraordinary powers. From each section, from any part of the budget, he may take any amount to finance this programme without the Sejm's knowledge, even without informing him, without approval, without amending the budget law. The financial charge in the state is suspended. Perhaps the Minister will kindly tell us what position you intend to take this year's money from, to finance this program. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: VAT.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u85	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Ryszard Bartosik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u86	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask the Minister why, before 2015, funds of this type of programme could not be put into the hands of farmers, villagers, from similar programmes. At the same time, I would like to thank you for the fact that such a large stream of money is now going to the country. I would like the Minister to remind you where the money comes from, what the VAT gap looked like during the Civic Platform and PSL term and where this money comes from. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u87	Thank you. The question is asked by Marek Owa, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u88	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In January, when the state budget for 2009 was adopted for the 500+ programme, a total of PLN 20 750 million was foreseen for the payment of benefits. In view of the above, I would like to ask you whether you are providing for an amendment of the budget in this respect and how these benefits will be paid. I referred to the Ministry of Finance, Minister Czerwińska, on this matter. The answer was more or less that in the Ministry of Finance they have no idea, they ask to ask Minister Rafalska, so this question is addressed to the Minister. And the other thing. Three years ago, when the programme was presented, you spoke very clearly about the demographic issue. And today, Minister Rafalska referred to it. If there was that limit you were giving your head for, $400,000. births a year, that wouldn't be a drop of over 300,000, [[♪ The bell ♪]] what you describe as a result of the regulation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u89	Thank you. Mr Waldemar Andzel, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u90	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The 500+ program is a jackpot. Polish families have been waiting for this program for years. Thanks to this program, we have eliminated poverty among children and Polish families. Thanks to this program the number of births of children has increased in demography, and under the PO-PSL we were at the end not only of Europe but also of the world in terms of births. PO-PSL kept saying there was no money and there wouldn't be. Thanks to the extended program, all children will receive 500 PLN and we will reduce bureaucracy. Minister! Please answer the opposition whether this programme has helped to eliminate child poverty, if the number of births of children has increased and how this has affected Poland's economic development. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u91	Thank you. Mr Jan Mosiński, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u92	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Poles are talking about the Civic Platform: a party of frauds. [[And which Poles?]] It is difficult not to give them at least part of the right, because as many lies as you shared under the PO-PSL regime, it would be difficult to put on the agenda of today's Sejm meeting. [[Voice from the room: Everyone measures with his measure.]] In 2012, you raised VAT for children for clothing and clothing, Mrs. [[Voice from the room: Everyone measures with his measure.]] Your fellow Member, Boris Budka, in an interview with the Germans, said after changing the reduced retirement age and 500+ to the second child that these are populist reforms. Your expert Rozonec stated that introducing the retirement age to the age of 60 and 65 would result in a 100-billion-dollar deficit. Meanwhile, the deficit was ten billion. About 1000% You've made a mistake, ladies and gentlemen, so you're unbelievable. I have a question for the Minister: How much will the introduction of the 500+ programme on each child have a positive impact on GDP growth? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u93	Mrs Joanna Borowiak, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u94	Dear Marshal, High Seym! Anyone can take a loan, loan, and finance their own private or family program. It's next to the famous council of the former president of the Platform: change your job and take credit offer PO for Poles. That was the proposal you had for the Poles for two terms. You were talking about the 500+ family program, that it's distribution, populism, or unreasonable reforms. In the meantime, the 500+ family has passed the exam perfectly, it is almost 70 billion PLN, which have been sent to Polish families, it is the dream of more than 3.5 million children and young people fulfilled. The opposition is criticizing the expansion of the program again today, we hear about the electoral movements or even the rush. Minister! Is it true that we have been talking from the beginning about the fact that, if this is possible, we will extend the 500+ family programme to the first child as well, and that is what we are doing? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u95	Thank you. Mrs Urszula Rusecka, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u96	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! During today's debate, we heard that our total opposition was pursuing a real social policy. I would like to remind you that there is a report from the Supreme Audit Chamber, what your 2015 policy looked like and what your pro-family policy looked like: inconsistent, public, ad hoc. Let me remind you that in 2012 you entered family support as one of your priorities, but already in 2013, attention, in the year declared family year, brought this priority. I have another question to the Minister: Has the head of the party of the Modern Katarzyna Lubnauer congratulated you and the Prime Minister on their success? Because during the debate, when 500+ was introduced, she said, "Where are you going to get the money?" It would have been a success if you had caused the country's economic development. It'll be a success if you seal the VAT. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And that's what happened. Did... Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u97	Thank you very much. Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u98	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! So often today the so-called words fell from the mouth of the opposition. care for Polish families, Polish children. [[Woman, you're not telling the truth.]] Some even said that the extension of this programme is the implementation of the 500+ programme for every child in the country. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, why you did not have this concern during your reign. Why didn't you support the government of Law and Justice, Polish children and Polish families? It is clear from the CBOS studies carried out in May 2018 that 49% The surveyed assess this programme very well or well, while in 2012 this percentage was only 9%. My question is: In addition to extending the benefit to the first child regardless of income, will there also be an extended program for children placed in care and education facilities? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u99	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u100	Mr. Marshal! Minister! First question to the Minister: Who's going to make money for it? Who will earn it when it is not worth working in Poland? Labour costs are rising, the tax-free amount is today incriminatingly low, lowest in Europe. Today it pays no work, today it pays to go for benefits, notabene these benefits are not cut, but increases. Another thing: the frustration of social workers is growing. I'm talking to the social workers, Minister, these are your subordinates. [[These are local workers.]] These people are really frustrated because they repeatedly sign decisions for money that, as a worker, they can't see for two, three months. And thirdly, very important: What are the costs for local government budgets? Remember, we're in the middle of the financial year. What is the amount, and what are the local governments supposed to cover? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u101	Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u102	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's obvious that the government doesn't have the money that's on the market and takes it out of nowhere. He's taking them away from the citizens. He'll have to take it first, then give it to him. Minister! Because you spend your money on things in no way thoughtlessly, you raise taxes and taxes, I have a question about how much 500+ is worth today. Three years ago, when you started the program, it was worth 500. And today? Answer: How much is 500+ worth today? Because in the meantime, you've raised the price of water, the price of electricity, the price of energy, the price of gasoline, and you've introduced a lot of other taxes and danins that people who pay taxes have to pay. [[There's plenty of clean air, too.]] And today, 500+ isn't 500+ anymore. Plus, who's gonna pay the 500 plus if you don't talk to the social worker who's protesting? I'm asking for an answer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u103	Member Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u104	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I will quote a passage from an important book: Populists engage in mass clientelism, that is, exchanging material benefits in exchange for mass political support. Please read this book. You are terrible populists and what Kaczyński did to Polish society... [[Mr. Kaczyński. For you, sir.]] ...by objectifying the debate, this is an example of extreme political conformism and opportunism. You're just political pornographers. You can't do politics like that. [[Applause]] [[Watch your mouth.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u105	Mrs Monika Rosa, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u106	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This program will not solve the problem of demography, fertility in Poland. For this to happen, as shown by examples abroad, our neighbours - it is not only a question of social transfers, but above all institutional care for children, i.e. nursery and kindergarten. What percentage of children are currently in kindergarten and preschool care? Safe return to the labour market and flexible working time. What solutions have you put in place during this term of office to make working time more flexible, to make it easier for mothers to return to the labour market? The question of partnership between the parents of the child, so that the real burden of raising the child rests on both the father and the mother. Minister! What about the education system, what about the teachers protest? 500 PLN will not help when it comes to this protest, it will not help when it comes to good education. What about people with disabilities? How can you help them on a system? A Fatal State of Psychiatry [[♪ The bell ♪]] Children and lower...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u107	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u108	...contracts for institutions that provide psychiatric assistance to children. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u109	Mrs Monika Wielichowska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u110	When in 2016 the Civic Platform Club tabled an amendment in which we wanted to help a single mother who creates a family with a 3-year-old daughter with income per person 803 PLN, a single dad who creates a family with a 10-year-old son with income per person 920 PLN - you did not listen. To this day, these families in the 500+ program do not receive benefits. But their neighbors, family with two children and income of 3,000. per person or more, 500+ receive. Your 500+ campaign was supposed to be for every kid. To this day, in your understanding, every child is everyone, but from the second one, because the first one you introduced a profit criterion. We said it was a great dishonesty at the time, we said it was a great injustice. You've excluded millions of children from the program and sorted out families. Today's election calendar is rolling around. Looking for votes brings back an honest Sunday witness. Why didn't you listen to us three years ago? We talked about this. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Clear. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u111	Mrs Alicja Chybicka, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u112	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's great that after 3 years also the first children will get 500+. [[But you were against...]] And my question is: Is there any control over whether the money that is meant for children is really going to these children? I observe in the case of children treated in Cape Hope, that some parents spend this money not on bringing a child to feed them better to do something, but unfortunately spend on things that are not very valuable, that are alcohol, drugs, and actually not a single dollar goes to the child. The number of children in Poland is decreasing from year to year. Does the Minister really believe that this financial carrot will increase our country's childhood? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u113	Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u114	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I wanted to be the last to ask a question, because often my questions die in the thick of other questions. Therefore, Minister, I have this question: Can we count on the fact that during this term of office of the Sejm we will be dealing with a project that reduces VAT for children's clothes to 8% ? I would like to stress here that in the UK or Ireland, this rate is 0%. , whereas e.g. in Luxembourg it is 3%. Of course, the European Commission may in some way refer to our project, even negatively, but our role, as well as our future MEPs, is to win it out for Poland, for Polish families. I would also like to stress that economists stress that the high cost of living for families and children is one of the reasons for a small number of births. As I said earlier in my speech, the most important thing is that we raise the number of births in Poland. Please answer: Can we do this bill again during this term of office? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u115	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Now the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mrs Elżbieta Rafalska has the floor. Come on in. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u116	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will, of course, try to answer all the questions. I'll try to group these answers together. For some questions, thank you, because I think they may be a little bit deceiving what you think about the 500+ program, so I will start with one of the last questions that relates to the so-called. waste of resources. It is completely unauthorized to say that families are misusing additional money from the 500+ family programme. According to our data, these situations are extremely rare and the average monthly number of upbringing services provided in kind or in payment of services in 2019 amounted to 1586, which represents 0.04% all eligible families. I am saying this and I am stressing it, and you are still persistently saying that families are not spending money properly. Who decides that this change of witness is taking place? Social workers who are self-government workers. And as I said in my speech, these local governments, these municipalities are almost 2.5 thousand, and these cases we have 1586. There was also a question, ladies and gentlemen, how much money goes to the Polish village and who is the biggest beneficiary of the 500+ programme. Since, by the end of March 2019, we have spent nearly PLN 70bn on the "Family of 500+" programme, including the service of nearly PLN 70bn, nearly PLN 40bn in the village and this applies to all rural and urban communities. And given that many children are more frequent in the countryside, it is clear that the biggest beneficiary is the Polish village. The fall of poverty - whether extreme single parents or extreme families, large families - is much greater there. There was also a repeated question about the extreme poverty of children in 2015 and 2017. It actually decreased from 9%. Up to 4.7%. But the biggest drop occurred in this first year of the programme, i.e. between 2015 and 2016. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been many questions here about children from nursing homes, children from the children's home. I would like to make it clear here that the granting of the benefit from the 500+ programme concerns children placed in socialization, intervention, specialist and therapeutic care facilities. So when it comes to this change that the Members have asked whether the children of the child's home will receive this benefit, yes, they will actually benefit from this programme, they will benefit from 13,000. children. So far, children in family care have benefited. There was also a question, ladies and gentlemen, about inflation and impact on the amount of the educational benefit. During the duration of this programme, we have observed deflation within 10 months, so price falls, prices have not changed within 5 months, and prices have increased in 21 months, and in a varied way. Please also note that when we introduced a benefit of PLN 500, this was a very high level of funding. And here this left-hand side of these benches in Parliament did not believe that it is possible to introduce such a high level of witnessing. So, ladies and gentlemen, honestly, if you're questioning the value of this program today, it's important to remember what forms of state aid you've used. This question is repeated, and this question comes back concerning childhood and this forecast, whether this childhood of 1.6 of the fertility rate is possible within 10 years. If, ladies and gentlemen, in 2 years, children have grown from 1.29 to 1.45, that is to say, in 2015 100 women had 129 children and in 2017 145 children were born into 100 women, because this is the result of index data, then we have to wait and see what will happen in the following years. Ladies and gentlemen, I will also answer the question of financing the operation of this programme. I would also suggest that we take a close look at what we propose in this law for a long period of time to receive this benefit and why funding for this task is differentiated. What are some of the issues involved? The proposal will be shorter because the income criterion will not be calculated, which will certainly lead the majority to submit these proposals online, which will speed up the processing of these applications. There will be no need for units to study the income of family members. There will be no need for a loss and income mechanism. There will be no need to determine the size of the farm and wait for the announcement of the president of the CSO. There will be no verification of the requirement for maintenance arrangements in the case of a single parent. There will be no decision, but there will be less work-intensive information about the award of the benefit instead of the needy administrative decision which was in force during previous periods of service. Since 2021, the delivery period and the deadlines for submitting applications will also change, which will seriously relieve local authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, for the performance of the benefit in 2018, we allocated PLN 328 million, and in 2019 in the current form of this program using the income criterion - PLN 330 million. But in 2019 we propose an amount higher than at the target level, so the amount of PLN 412 million. So local governments will have more money allocated, even though the commission, please, is falling, but the value of this project, this programme, is almost doubling. Next question - social workers. The chairman of the local government committee asked about the situation of social workers. With all understanding for low wages and the difficult situation of social workers who are a little in the local government forgot workers, I would like to say that they are, however, employees, state, local government and how much they earn, the local government decides. And this is clearly seen when we analyze the salaries of social workers at the level of municipalities, where their salaries vary by PLN 500.600, sometimes even more. I ask you, as far as the money is concerned, which will be for the service of the programme in 2019, i.e. by PLN 412 million, this is the money to pay for those employees who support these family benefits. It's a crowd of 19,000. employees, but they are not social workers. Among them, only 186 people are social workers. And now, with regard to the programme in this form, when we do not examine the income criterion at all, the nature of this benefit and this project ceases to be completely social. I think it's also a three-month period for local governments to issue a decision. or rather, the examination of an application for this benefit is a long enough period to consider these applications. All persons who apply by road on-line from 1 July or by paper from 1 August - and on-line will be able to submit them all the time - they will be paid with an equal pay from 1. And I am convinced that there will be no interference in the timely payment of these benefits. And let us remember that local governments are asking for resources for the voivodships and receive these funds as they implement the payments. If they do not carry out the payment, then simply these measures They won't. There was also a question, I ask you, for additional elements of family policy related, for example. with babysitting. So I would like to say that the programme is funded at a level of three times higher than it was in 2015, and we allocated three times more funds to the programme in 2018 and 2019, i.e. 450 million against 150, which was allocated by the government of the Civic Platform and PSL. And the care of a small child is covered by 20% of Polish children and during the period of our governments there were 100,000. new childcare facilities for young children. This question came up again, I ask you, for children, what it looked like in the impact assessment of the regulation, what it looked like in the GUS forecasts. The GUS-owska forecast said that in 2018 360 thousand should be born. children, and was born according to these data of the CUS 388 thousand. This GUS forecast of 360 thousand. it's also a very high forecast. What are the expenses for this program? The increase in expenditure in the second half of 2019 when financing this benefit for each child without applying the income criterion is growth at the level of PLN 9600 million. In 2020, when the full annual funding of the programme is complete, the family of 500+.The expenditure will amount to PLN 41 billion. There was also a question of how much this programme will affect Polish GDP. I recall the situation in which we introduced this programme in 2016. We were talking about these forecasts, which are 0.4 and 0.5 of GDP. We can certainly say that these funds, which will be paid under the additional "Emerity+" for pensioners of almost PLN 11 billion plus almost PLN 10 billion of [[How much is 500+ worth today?]] I'd like to say more, ladies and gentlemen... [[Purchasing value 500+ today?]] ...to this charge, which you have often claimed here, that the program did not finance single mothers. I would like to say that the data of the Central Statistical Office showing the decline in poverty show that these declines in poverty have mostly taken place among families, single parents raising children, families with disabled children, as well as, to a large extent, families with three children. And these are not ministerial data, but these are data from the Central Statistical Office. Today, after the abolition of the income criterion, there will be no barrier to the availability of this program, so all the concerns that were previously expressed... [[Voice from the room: How much is 500+ worth?]] ...will surely cease to exist... [[Minister, the purchase value of 500 PLN today?]] ...and there will be less reason to attack [[♪ The bell ♪]] our pro-family show. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u117	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u118	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, We, Members of the Law and Justice, have supported and supported these actions of the government, which mean support for Polish families, with full conviction and great satisfaction. This was the role played by the programme "Family 500+" introduced in 2016, which, thanks to billions of transfers, created new perspectives for millions of Polish families. At all the meetings I have the pleasure of holding with voters, this programme is very positive. The programme plays its role both in the area of demography and eradication and reduction of poverty, improving the lives of families. The current proposal to amend the law extends the scope of the beneficiaries, but also simplifies the programme and reduces the costs of the task. My question concerns the impact on local governments that receive a targeted grant for the implementation of the programme. Now the service will be simpler, after all there will be no more need to analyze income criteria, but will also include a larger group of stakeholders. How will this affect the amount of grants to local governments? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u119	In the discussion, proposals were made, firstly, to reject the draft law at first reading, secondly, to additionally refer the draft law to the Public Finance Commission. We will proceed to the vote on these proposals in a moment. I'm ordering a three-minute break. Excuse me, I'd like to welcome more young people and educators from Barwald Dolny school - this is a town near Wadowice - which we are visiting at the gallery. Very cordial greetings. [[Applause]] [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 min. 19 hrs. 12 min 23]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 20 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Law on State aid in raising children and some other laws. In the discussion, proposals were made to reject the draft law at first reading and to additionally refer the draft law to the Public Finance Commission. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law at first reading. If this proposal is rejected, we will decide on the referral of this proposal to the committee. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of accepting the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law contained in print no.3387, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 397 Members voted. For -9 against -372, 16. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] We now proceed with the decision to refer the bill to the committee. The proposal submitted by the Sejm Bureau concerns the referral of the draft to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy for consideration. In the discussion, a request was made to refer this project in addition to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. If I do not hear any objections, I will consider that the Sejm's proposal, as assessed by the Sejm Bureau, has been accepted and that I will put the motion for additional referral of this draft law to the vote. I can't hear you objecting. [[Objection.]] [[Voice from the room: Why?]] We'll proceed with the vote. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[We know.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[The vote showed you don't know what's going on.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who of your fellow Members is in favour of additional referral to the Public Finance Committee of the draft Act 3387, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] 404 Members voted. For - 181, against - 222, 1 Member abstained. I find that the Sejm has rejected the proposal. I propose on the basis of an article. 39 (1) (a) 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm for the committee to submit a report within a time limit allowing it to be discussed at this sitting. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm declaring a two-minute break. I'm calling the Senior Convention to the dark living room right now. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 min. 26 hours 12 min 41]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 29 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on amending the law on the education system and the law on education (print No. 3398). I ask the Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, the Head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister of Mr Michał Dworczyk, to present the reasons for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u120	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the President of the Council of Ministers Mateusz Morawiecki a bill amending the law on the system of education and the Law of Education. High Izbo! We've all found ourselves in a difficult situation. [[Voice from the room: You're here.]] I'm thinking of everyone here. I think about teachers, I think about unionists. I also think about politics, also about opposition policies, but also about government. But first of all, I think about seniors and senior parents who don't know if it's possible to take the exam on May 6th. Ladies and gentlemen, who else a month ago may have assumed that the students would become hostages. [[Government. Government hostages.]] Who could have guessed that the students would be on the front line on a politically heated argument about teachers' salaries? Therefore, the growing chaos and feeling of uncertainty about whether the Matura will be held or not, caused Mateusz Morawiecki, President of the Council of Ministers, to present yesterday to the Council of Ministers the bill which we present to the Sejm. This law will ensure that every senior on May 6 will be able to take the maturity test. [[Applause]] If the Lower House and the Senate pass this law today, the seniors will be able to lie down and sleep peacefully for the first time in a few weeks knowing that on May 6th in each high school they will begin. The government is presenting a project that is dictated by concern for seniors. They must be sure that they will be able to take the maturity test. The state must also demonstrate and respond to the concerns and uncertainties faced by many students of the last classes of secondary school today in the face of the challenge of some trade unionists. We propose a solution allowing the classification of seniors in an emergency situation, when strikers refuse to classify pupils. I hope this doesn't happen at all. And if they do, they will be absolutely unique situations in which pedagogical councils will not carry out classifications. But we as a government, more broadly, we, all politicians, as a political class in Poland, must guarantee that every senior will be sure to take this exam. We want to create a way to save the students from repeating the last grade of high school. The mode of working on this law is indeed unique. Why? Because the situation is extraordinarily outrageous. But the state cannot be helpless in view of such an exceptional situation. The State may not be theoretical. The state must act, it must create mechanisms for action at such extraordinarily moments. That's why we're presenting this bill. The project assumes that the existing regulations will be supplemented by an indication that, in the event that a teacher, a branch educator, a trainee or a pedagogical board does not perform the tasks and competences of evaluating, grading and promoting pupils or conducting examinations, the school head will be required to perform these tasks as a substitute. In order to improve the performance of these tasks by the school head, it is proposed that he may also authorise the teacher to carry out these tasks. On the other hand, if the school principal or the teacher authorised by him fails to carry out these tasks and competences, the teacher designated by the school authority will carry them out. Another important provision for pupils of the highest level of general education and technicians is that the above-mentioned decision may take place after the end of the educational course which ends on 26 April 2019 and thus de facto these tasks can be carried out on 29 and 30 April. The point is that the long weekend of May students can start fully calm, knowing that on 6 May they will start their Matura exams. High Izbo! We often use very sharp words in this room. Often we disagree, often with emotions, and sometimes with political calculation we have very strong disputes. But the matter that we are dealing with today should unite us over political divisions. Today we are working on a bill that will allow seniors who are not guilty of the ongoing wage debate... [[And who's to blame?]] That is the second thing, Madam Member, who is guilty. But the important thing is, it's not the seniors who are guilty. [[How much time did you have?]] And we should jointly, above the political divisions, adopt this law, so that the M.A. can take place. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I know that the prospect of using this moment for various political, sharp speeches to heat the atmosphere is very appealing. But think of the nearly 300,000. seniors, their families, those who've been under a lot of stress for weeks. [[When did you think about them?]] And regardless of who sits on the side of the Sejm and what he thinks is responsible for this situation, let us consider the seniors. I ask the High House to accept this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u121	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Dariusz Piontkowski will be the first on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u122	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! As Minister Dworczyk said, we are indeed in an extraordinary situation. In such situations, the State must also react in an extraordinary manner, hence the extraordinary procedure for filing a bill. We will want it to be extremely proceded as well, because unfortunately there is no more time. Literally a few days we are separated from the beginning of the first exams, and we are constantly getting information that some teachers do not want to fulfil their duties, classify students, do not want to take the exams, this time seniors. There can be no situation in which the weaker, and in this case the weaker, are the weak, the students who do not have the ability to defend themselves against such attitudes, have been left to themselves. [[We need to talk to the teachers. It's very simple.]] Hence the government has prepared a bill that solves this issue. We assume that the fundamental right that we are to discuss right now is the student's right to study and to graduate. [[A teacher's right to a decent life.]] Therefore, we are talking about the fact that the profession of teacher is very important, it is very important, it is a particular profession. [[That's why you don't talk to them.]] This particular profession should also require specific behaviour by these workers. Instead, today, unfortunately, we are dealing with a situation where we are trying to prevent exams from being carried out to destabilize the situation in Poland. The promotional blockage and the exams are supposed to lead to this. The opposition only cheers here, the shouts that come from the side only heat the atmosphere. It is also thanks to you that this atmosphere is getting hotter and hotter. [[Sit down with the teachers for discussion.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u123	Madam, please don't disturb me.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u124	Today, however, there is a fundamental question, also addressed to the total opposition: are you in favour of 300,000. Could seniors pass the exam, graduate high school, and continue their studies? [[It's all in your hands, unfortunately.]] Listening to your scream, I feel like today you're going to tell the seniors, "No, we don't want you to pass high school this year." However, we would like to appeal to you to accept together with the government a bill that will enable them to do so. [[You don't have to change anything in law.]] Thus, in special situations, when teachers cannot or do not want to engage in the promotion of pupils, someone could replace them. I myself worked for more than 20 years in school, and I know that there have been situations when teachers even in a severe medical condition came to school to promote. There has been no provision that would allow the replacement of the teacher, teacher of the subject in the course of the promotion, evaluation or classification. There is also a solution to this kind of situation in this draft law prepared by the government. You scream, they say the government is responsible... At the moment, the government is preparing solutions to prevent a situation that is bad for students. We tried to talk to the protesters, we made further proposals gradually more and more to meet the demands made by individual trade unions. [[You're full of shit. That's not true.]] Let me remind you that it is the government that is still Prime Minister Beata Szydło, who has prepared a proposal for a three-step increase in teachers' salaries. Then, under the influence of trade union demands, these proposals were expanded with additional concessions and changes that the government had proposed to introduce, and recently we have also increased the proposal for an increase to be made in September this year. Let me remind you that, according to these proposals, the total increase in teachers' salaries this year is expected to be 15%. It's a lot. This means that this year a qualified teacher, according to government proposals, may have a basic salary raised - once again I will clearly stress this: basic - about almost 500 PLN. When the internship and 1/12 13ths count, it will be well over 600 PLN. It's really big money. [[You don't believe that yourself.]] We therefore call once again on teachers to join the classification and examination of pupils. We know that classifications have already taken place in a vast part of the city. However, there are environments that, despite the appeals and despite paying attention primarily to the welfare of the students, think primarily of the extra money, hence the bill. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In order to be able to proceed quickly on this bill, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Law and Justice request that it not be moved to committee and that a second reading be started immediately. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Halicki, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u126	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Just now... [[Listen to me. Please don't run away.]] This is the responsibility of who really is responsible for this crisis today, because this teacher strike is not political, but the decision is political, in the hands of the President and you, Mr President, are responsible... [[Voice from the room: Coming out. He's coming out.]] We have also just seen that the Club of Law and Justice - that is your decision - has given a vote of distrust to Minister Zalewska. Because who, if not the Minister, should speak here and present a proposal for an amendment to the Education Law? This is a vote of distrust and this loneliness today is very characteristic. For what did Minister Dworczyk say in the name of the Ministry, which caused this mess? This applies not only to the mess of the strike itself, but also to the mess at school, the double yearbooks this year and the chaos that we are dealing with. He said and called on the House to make a political decision on the prom. A political decision on the SATs? Do you hear yourself? Is it possible to be so, with an apology, irresponsible to make such an appeal? And if the doctors were on strike, you'd be making a political resolution on social health rehabilitation and, I don't know, posting. [[Applause]] Catechists to heal or their own officials? Think about what you're saying. [[So you don't screw around.]] No, school isn't politics. Here's the question of the quality of teaching... [[Every resolution is a policy.]] ...taking care of the future of our society. Also your members, sympathizers are on strike. Don't you have teachers in your families? Don't you talk to them about how embarrassed they are for you? Listen to them and talk to them. [[Applause]] The teachers waited not even for a few months, they waited for you for more than two years, because this chaos was visible from the very beginning - unprepared reform, shed responsibility on local government. [[10,000. jobs.]] Teachers are responsible, all of them, including those who belong to your sympathetic relationships with you. They are responsible and today they strike together in solidarity. My parents support them. [[Voice from the room: Scabs too.]] Self-governments are responsible and guarantee the functioning of schools. You guys are irresponsible. You will be accounted for by the voters. He's gonna meet you... [[We're looking forward to it.]] ...appropriate assessment. [[Applause]] For this reason, I would like to remind you that on Friday the European Coalition signed a declaration in which not only budgetary, financial, i.e. a 30% increase in the basic salary, we guarantee. That's what we're committed to. In the fall there will be a government - dear teachers, parents, be calm - who will treat... [[Voice from the room: 8 years.]] ...teachers and Polish school seriously. We promise you. We're gonna talk about school autonomy... [[You don't keep your word.]] You're not gonna scream at me. ...which you restrict, with the programme base to which you must return, about everything that shapes the quality of teaching, which strengthens the competences of students, because this is a priority in terms of the continued functioning of our society and the state. You've neglected it because you're not capable of it because you're ignorant because you treat everyone in advance, just like the president, just leaving - don't watch TVP, because it's just propaganda... [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Don't judge according to yourself.]] ...because you think it's a lie to cover reality. Nobody watches TVP anymore. 8,000. average, as you say, teachers' salaries are just as true as the Smolensk bombing. Keep watching TVP, you'll wake up with the election result you deserve. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Thank you very much, sir. Thank you. But let's get back to the essence of things. You want to set a legislative record and again in a few - several hours will lead to the adoption of this bubble - as with the IPN - including the President's signature. And yet the legislative process, you know that perfectly well, has its regulated status, there are laws here. You're gonna give up your powers on local governments to replace the guidance boards with local governments. And did you consult on this in the joint government and local government committee? No, because the pages are clearly not found. RCL, the government law center, had anything to say? Not found. Permanent Committee of the Council of Ministers? Not found. Your score is going to be like this. [[♪ The bell ♪]] a white card on government pages in the legislative process. About the coalition... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u127	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, sir. I am very pleased to welcome the young people from Toulouse who sit at the gallery. We welcome you very much. [[Applause]] And now Mr Tomasz Jaskóla, the Kukiz Club15, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u128	Dear Marshal, Dear Socialists Believers and Unbelievers! [[The voice from the hall: Oh, dear!]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] If someone doesn't understand, they do. The current state of education is not due to teachers. The current state of education is absolutely due to the lack of courage to reform education in a realistic way. This is for you young people, because it will be the only non-socialist and realistic version of education. We're working on a rescue bill. It's print number 3398. Of course, this strike is forcing change. There's no doubt about that, because suddenly we're in danger of unclassifying the students. It's gotta be done. The legislative procedure is outrageous, but, ladies and gentlemen, taking as hostages young people who cannot take the prom exam is a superskandal. This is absolutely unacceptable, for no one and never. Matura is sacred, just like any classification. I am merely pointing out that this classification should be carried out in reserve by curators, not necessarily by local authorities. For the past four years, I am convinced that neither the state nor the state will change education. The strike we have right now is a heavy pay strike. No one has any doubts about that. I'm just surprised, I don't know, when Mr. Defender is telling the truth, or, once, calling for not classification, or, twice, not calling? What is the education system in Poland? Now - young people, I hope you will say that this is true, because unfortunately this is true - the education system in Poland is inefficient. The reform has not changed anything - bad programming bases, centralized education. 60/70% Those young people who go there and are at the gallery will go to tutoring. It'll be your parents' second tax. This is the scale of tutoring in Poland. In the first year of college, ladies and gentlemen, educational courses are organized. We don't teach people that well. After all, Polish universities are not among the world's leading universities. You're short, young people, soft skills. You have invented encyclopedic knowledge, programs are weak, and in the age of the Internet encyclopedic knowledge is really no longer useful. Polish school kills bureaucracy, paperwork, absurd, etc. Can these problems be solved in the short term? Yes, we have to vote in favour of this bill so that the M.A. can take place. There's no doubt about that. Can we solve this problem systemically? Yeah, thanks to the long-term discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no way out, it must be deep reforms. Remember, too, that contrary to appearances and the government is a little bit right. The OECD scale of work on the board is indeed the smallest in the OECD countries. But don't repeat the myths that teachers work 18 and 20 hours a week. Teachers work 40 or 50 hours. Ladies and gentlemen! What should education be? She should have Jack Ma's face - young people know who I'm talking about, the developer of Alibaba, the multibillionaire who says what education is supposed to be - and Sir Ken Robinson. See on YouTube what he says about education. We have fossils, not education. Education should be decentralised. There should be an educational voucher, which is your parents, young people who are at the gallery, should have at their disposal money that can be spent on your education. If a school doesn't do its job well, your parents are moving you and the school is failing. Freedom in curricula. Liquidation of the Teacher's Card. Most of you are self-government and, as local government officials, you say: the card is bad, it needs to be abolished. As Members, you no longer have the courage. It is you who are responsible for the education reform that nothing She didn't. Neither you nor you can change it. The Polish school has Mr. Broniar's face, and I would like it to have the face of the creator of Apple, which you also use. What's the priority, ladies and gentlemen? The most important thing at school isn't a teacher. The most important thing is the student. He's a parent in second place because he's a tax payer. On the third are all of us, the economy and the country. The teachers take fourth place. It just has to be considered functionally, i.e. there is no situation where one of these elements is less important. However, the student is a priority. Ladies and gentlemen! Now we don't have time to talk about it, but we have two choices. Or we can think about the Finnish model: purely public education, teachers working from hours. 8 to 8 a.m. 16, the profession of teacher treated as elite and well paid, either over the Anglo-Saxon model: poor public education, but very elite, subsidised private education. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u129	Thank you very much. Now Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, a club of the Polish People's Party. [[Mr. Marshal, a little respect. You could at least let me finish your sentence.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u130	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! This bill should never have gone to the High House. If the government were to follow the principle of prudent care for the common good in an elementary way, it would end the strike for several days and conclude an agreement. [[Eight years.]] All the tools are in your hands. This government, as a stronger side in every protest, is responsible for reaching an agreement. You gave it up. You don't want to make any new proposals. You don't take the social partners seriously. You humiliated the Social Dialogue Council. You even humiliated your president, who, when offering Belvedere, wanted to help organize the round table. Minister! Why didn't you introduce this law to the Social Dialogue Council bureau on Tuesday afternoon when the council met? Why didn't you want to talk to the union guys and make them new proposals? Why didn't you finally implement your electoral request? In 2011, we can read in the Law and Justice Programme at page 146 that the Government of Law and Justice will significantly increase the remuneration of public school teachers. He's not gonna do it by $1,000, folks. He's gonna do it by $2,500. [[Voice in the room: 15%.]] It would suffice, as you often say, to implement the electoral programme. Realize it, go to the Social Dialogue Council today, offer every teacher what you promised in 2011 - 2500 PLN, not 1000 PLN, which they demand. You're surprised the teachers are on strike, but you tricked them. Now you want to use your students as a shield to protect you from the anger of your teachers. This bill will be completely unnecessary. This law should never go to the High House in such a way. Public dialogue, social dialogue must be restored because it has been humiliated and suspended. For the first time in history, we are dealing with a situation where it is not the union side, the employers' side, but the government side has left social dialogue and did not want to continue the talks in this formula. [[That's not true.]] What is the alternative to the round table? Who will take part in them today if the protesters of the trade unions refused and the representatives of the solidarity with which you signed the agreement only want to appear as observers? Even the president of your political camp considers the formulation of the round table at the National Stadium to be unfortunate. Who do you want to solve the problems of Polish education with? How do you even want to change it? [[With Pawlak.]] I do not agree with my previous speaker that today the Polish school has the face of the Broniar, the president of the Polish Teachers' Association. Today the Polish school has the face of a concerned teacher, [[Applause]] who has been fighting for weeks for the dignity of students, dignity of his family and dignity of the Polish school. That's her real face. [[Watch the videos.]] You. You don't understand, because you don't want to understand, you don't want to understand this concern... [[You're smiling because you don't believe it.]] ...which they express, and bend over their problems. Real dialogue must be restored, a decent place must be restored to the Social Dialogue Council, its representatives, unions, social partners and employers. The round table should be held in this formula. Then we would have taken part in them. There is no point in taking part in this farce you are proposing - on the one hand, the fortel in the Sejm today, on the other hand, the farce in the National Stadium tomorrow. I'm deeply convinced that teachers... [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Well, sure, because why discuss substantively.]] ...classify their students. I'd like to ask them to do it, just like the interschool strike committee asked, calling for students to be classified and admitted to high school. I'd like to ask the teachers to follow the voice of the interschool strike committee to begin to classify... [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Hypocrisy.]] ...and showed that the law, which is supposed to be a fortel, the law which humiliates Minister Zalewska today - has not even been given a voice - and results from the desire to take away the competences of teachers, will never have to function and will never enter into force. This is, I think, a very realistic scenario, and I hope that's what's gonna happen. You do your duty. [[He's gonna do his part in the bill.]] If dialogue is possible, dialogue is your responsibility. Today - to the table, not to the story of round tables, fairy tales and a constant mammy, that one day it will be better. If it's not better now, it'll only be possible after the election... [[Eight years.]] ...how we will fulfill the promise that Mr Halicki spoke of. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u131	Katarzyna Lubnauer, Modern Club. [[Rysiek, will you speak?]] [[We're not on you, man.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! We have another legal issue, an attempt to kill the autonomy of teachers. The fact that the words "teacher" and "slave" begin with the letter "n" does not cause anyone to confuse them. We cannot treat teachers as people who can be replaced - by self-government. I propose that we introduce the solution immediately, that all seniors finish high school with aim results. Ridiculous? I only lower myself to the level of solutions that PiS proposes. Ladies and gentlemen, let us remember one thing: this strike is a fight for dignity, for respect for teachers. If the teachers lose it, we'll all lose it because more and more teachers are wondering what they're still doing in education. Your goal is to crush the teachers, but I have the impression that these actions have the opposite effect. Teachers feel even more compelled to show that they do not agree to such treatment. Winter, and the snow surprised the roadmen. Ladies and gentlemen, since January we know that on 8 April there will be a teacher strike, and not since January, but even longer, we know when they're graduate. Why, then, is the solution two days before the classification, and what is the involvement of local government? I wonder what's gonna happen when the surgical residents strike. Will you then decide to replace them? Why don't you appeal to the parole officer? That's how you boasted about curators in the middle school and eighth grade exams. So? At the moment, locals are supposed to save your skin again. They've saved a lot of lives. I know you guys would be more than willing to rule the tsarist orders, but the law is different. What the government is about is a change of concept, and reform should be built with money. In such Finland, seven years were prepared for reform and huge money was invested in education. Who's that quote from? Minister Zalewska. What did you do to Polish education? You killed the bilingual classes: from 550 to 290, the number of such classes decreased after the reform of Minister Zalewska. You have caused that in those schools where there was one shift in teaching, there are often two shifts in teaching at the moment. You're destroying and killing the dreams of young people who want to get into their dream high school because this year, two years will go there. This is the biggest strike since 1993. It's a teacher's cry for help. They want bread, not the games you offer them in the form of a round table. That's why we won't participate in the round table. What's the point of talking when Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki of the PiS sits on one side of the table, Mrs Zalewska of the PiS, on the other hand, perhaps on the other hand, although he hesitates, Mr Proks, councilman of the PiS representing the Solidarity, but not the teachers, but perhaps the fourth one held by the PiS as grants? That round table doesn't make sense. It doesn't make sense if there's no one at this table who's fighting for the right of teachers to live a decent life. [[They have an invitation.]] [[They didn't.]] You guys are offering a legal bullshit. We speak straight: we will not vote in favour of this legal bubble. We request that this be rejected at first reading. Yes, we want teachers to classify students. Yes, we want this strike to be over, but for it to end, just talk, just offer teachers something, not treat teachers like public enemies. The treatment of further groups of Poles: judges, doctors, teachers as public enemies makes this country increasingly divided. If you take the respect of professions that should have great respect, such as judges, teachers, doctors, what do we have left? What country will we have left? What will we leave for the next generation? I am convinced that the solutions you are proposing only show that we live in the October State of PiS, in a country where we cannot solve problems, but treat them with ad hoc, prosthetic solutions, solutions that work only here and now. If you're suggesting that future school heads should be classified instead of teachers, what do you leave behind for teachers? What's their role? Why don't we even use electronic logs and LIBRUS for this? They offer the results on the basis of the average. You take the respect, you take the dignity and you take the autonomy of the teachers, that's why we're not gonna put our hands on it. We're against it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u133	The strike has just ended, Member. That's it. [[The question is, why are we running this bullshit?]] Member Robert Winnicki, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u134	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Three and a half years after PiS's reign and three and a half years as far as education is concerned, it's blood in the sand. Nothing important, nothing serious, nothing good in education you've done. You didn't make any major reform, you just made a fuss about juggling school types. That's the truth. Is today, after 3.5 years of your governments, a classic conservative postulate - a educational voucher that would also provide better funding for education? No. It's not in. The system is even more centralised than it was before. Yes, yes, after a permanent minister Zalewska grabbed the face of the school, also pressing the screw on the most conservative group of parents, i.e. those who decide to have home education. Yes, under your rule, domestic education led by conservative, traditional, Catholic parents was hit very hard. That's the truth. You didn't introduce classical education. No, the Polish school consolidates the negative western trends that came in the 1990s, especially after 1999, i.e. the dictatorship of tests, the dictatorship of keys by which students are trained, not raised, not shaped to be aware of citizens. That's the truth. Classic education lies, is upbringing, there is discipline in schools, and you juggle: 4 years, 3 years, this is junior high... It doesn't make any sense, it's pouring from one glass to the other of the same content, changing only form. But, even worse, you have not stopped the rainbow revolution in any way, which also goes through Polish schools. It's your government that's growing the number of these so-called ones every year. rainbow Fridays, which march through Polish schools, and you did nothing, and this is one simple legal solution to protect Polish children. Kaczyński tells Jasionka that we will defend children. And what did you do for three and a half years? What laws have you put in place in this regard? How do you protect young people not only in schools but also on public television? How do you do that? You don't do that at all. You guys are doing some bullshit here on this occasion. The truth is, this whole thing that's crashing into money today, crashing into money, it's a big deal. not on the subject, because a comprehensive reform of the education system based on three fundamental elements should be a fundamental theme: at the level of funding the education voucher and the reform of the Teacher Charter, it is one, two - at the level of classical education and the restoration of discipline, and at the level of evaluation of the teacher's work and the student's elimination of bureaucracy. Did the teachers stop being buried in paperwork under your rule? No, they didn't. They're buried in meaningless bureaucracy. But it's all connected to the model of education, to this western-liberal, stupid model of education that you're just preserving that you're perpetuating. The Minister is now blowing to Brussels after she has preserved the concert. In fact - no wonder at all - the roots in the Union of Freedom oblige - a system created in 1999 and unfortunately consistently developed since then. Well, that's the truth - on top, on the skin... Some education curators with a healthy ideological spine try to do whatever they want to do, try to save small schools, try not to allow genderism to happen, but these are emergency actions. You know what's gonna happen? There will be a more centralised education system after your governments. If, do not give God, in the future the liberal left has taken over power, she will have the entire education attached to the button to the ideological change. You didn't do that to give greater freedom to form types of schools for parents' associations, just conservative associations, the Church, etc. No, you have even more caught the system, centralized it and if now another force, do not give God some left, will take power in Poland, will have everything on the button. And it's all yours. Do you know how the cultural revolution took place in the West? It happened that every time the left came to power, it moved the horizon, and every time a centroright like you came to power, she maintained the system. Unfortunately, in education you did exactly that and it was you who really pulled this Lenin of Polish education, Mr. Broniarz, from the closet, from the mausoleum in which he was stuck. [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u135	Mr Richard Petru, now!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u136	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't know if you know, but the NSA just suspended the strike until September. [[Voice from the room: We know.]] So, if you knew, then why the bill? It is simply unnecessary. It's just information. [[Voice from the O.R.: In case...]] [[Then what's the point of this speech? It's not necessary.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the special law on the conduct of high school exams in Poland is a testimony of the chaos in which this country is today, our country. Such laws shall be carried out when there are natural disasters, epidemics or a time of economic crisis. [[That's the way it is.]] If you report the bill 11 days before graduation, you admit that the country you've ruled for almost four years is in a state of disaster - not natural, but a disaster that is caused by arrogance, profanity and lack of imagination. The person who caused the conflict is responsible for the risk of failure to conduct the SATs. If you give money to groups who didn't expect this money, i.e. pensioners or parents for the first child, and you hear every time from ministers, prime minister, president that money is, then everyone has the right to ask: Why isn't this money for me? The expectations of many social groups have been aroused and the belief that money comes from heaven and that economics laws do not work. It all leads the country to the brink of chaos. In the budget, ladies and gentlemen, you know that, there was neither 500+ nor 13 nor a raise for teachers, and in Poland there are many other needs. We have underinvested health care, queues and people who die in SORs, underinvested education, lack of sufficient support for disabled people, and more and more difficulties for entrepreneurs. These are real challenges for Poland in 2019, not 500+, not thirteen, not PKS. We have, we have just had a teacher strike, but many groups in Poland do not strike, just people will leave Poland like doctors Or nurses. Ladies and gentlemen, there are 710 thousand in Poland. teachers, their wages lie among the lowest of the earnings in OECD countries. In Poland, teachers earn less than in Turkey, their counterparts in Chile, South Korea, Mexico. Disregarding teachers is another step towards the ruin of Polish education. You have restored the Polish People's Republic to eight classes and four classes, you have delayed the start of education by our youngest citizens. This is the direction of the open, not modernity. The Polish education system requires funding, but also deep reform. What quality reform have you introduced in Polish education? None. Listen, if half of the money spent on 500+ for the first child was allocated to raises for teachers, that would be enough for a raise of PLN 1000 per month. But you pretend you don't hear these arguments, you don't want to hear the truth, because you'd rather buy votes than invest in the future of the country. I ask that Polish teachers earn as much as they earn in Western Europe, it is necessary to abolish the Teacher's Charter, because it is a Peerelian relic, which makes good teachers not promoted and bad teachers are not fired. In private schools in Poland, a teacher who is employed never asks about the Teacher's Card. He needs good pay and good working conditions. A real reform should give a much greater freedom to shape the remuneration of school heads as part of the wage fund received. Greater autonomy of educational institutions, greater power of parents and school heads, and less centralist vavnilovka. The Polish school should primarily teach, not just require, and teach practically, not encyclopedically. Minister Zalewska's pseudoreform has caused the first chaos in the organization of teaching, completely unnecessary, and your inability to deal with teachers has intensified this chaos. However, without a profound education reform, without additional expenditure, we will still be subcontractors in the production chain of the wealthy countries of the West. Ladies and gentlemen, underfunded education is a low wage for teachers, but also in the future, unfortunately, for their students. You reject any proposal, any conversation about what are the priorities, what is the money in the budget, what is the scale of government debt. All this is evidence of running away from the subject, because unfortunately, your policy is not about the good of the country, it is not about investing in the future, it is not about the quality of education or health protection. There is only one goal: to bribe voters. And that's what you're looking for money for. You will not spend them on what Poles really expect. A request was filed in the Sejm two weeks ago to talk about the teacher strike. You rejected him. And now you're organizing a round table that doesn't make any sense in the context of the ZNP's decision. There was no openness to conversation. This bill proves you can't get along. If we reject it, we're gonna force a little bit of humility on the PiS that's gonna be very useful to you. However, this problem of Polish education needs to be solved with teachers, not against them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Great.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u137	Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, near Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u138	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I present the position of the Free and Solidarni wheels against the government's draft law on amending the law on the education system and the Law on Education. Today, a rapid revision of education law is essential for many Polish seniors to stop worrying about whether their Matura will take place and whether it will be possible to continue their studies in higher education this year. However, I trust that these solutions will not need to be used in practice in any of the schools. I believe that teachers, according to the missionary nature of this profession, will stand behind the students and will not allow the strike to destroy their year of life. I would like to stress that the current situation is a puriazum, which led to the stubbornness of the trade union centers that involve teachers in the political game. Remember, our children and grandchildren have not had educational or educational activities for 17 days, and they have not adopted material for 17 days. Polish children may not be able to learn the multiplication table now, they do not learn the map of Poland and do not learn about the Constitution on 3 May. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki in the government project proposed that directors, regardless of pedagogical councils, should be able to classify seniors this year. If this was not possible, according to the project students would classify the local government. Such legal records are designed to prevent chaos in education. The government's contingency plan is a testimony to the responsibility of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki for our country and Polish education. Once again Law and Justice proved that the fate of Polish youth is extremely important for Law and Justice. It is the responsibility of the State to allow pupils to approach exams, and this project is the implementation of this obligation. I am pleased that Law and Justice have shown that power will not allow it to be blackmailed. We all agree that children should not bear, that young people should not suffer the consequences of irresponsible adults who, by their own ambitions, cannot see the higher value of the student's welfare. The Free and Solidarni Circle fully supports the government bill and hopes that other clubs and parliamentary circles, which are at the heart of our young people, will act in the same way. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u139	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. I close the list of Members who have been asked questions. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. There are 35 ladies and gentlemen of the House to ask questions. Ms Urszula Ruseck, the Law and Justice Club, asks the first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u140	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to thank you very much for this bill on behalf of seniors. And I'm saying this as the mother of this year's senior. I know what happens to young people who come to school with their dreams... [[And the PiS destroyed it.]] ...with plans and thank you very, very much, that the Government of Law and Justice behaved responsibly. On the other hand, I would like to address Mark Twain's words to the students, who said: Never let your school stand in the way of your education. [[Jesus Christ!]] And the question to the Minister is: Isn't the right of teachers to strike, which I do not question, also question their desire for good earnings, violates the article. 30 Constitution, right to study and Article. 28 and Article 28 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 29 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child adopted by the United Nations General Assembly? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u141	Ms Krystyna Szumilas, PO-KO Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u142	Teachers suspended the strike, and PiS continues to push this ruining system of judging and education law. It is so serious that I wanted to ask the Prime Minister a question. Prime Minister, is the humiliation of teachers so important to you that instead of sitting down with them, you are able to go to the worst of solutions? Prime Minister, for 18 days of strike, you haven't found time to meet teachers, and today you are pushing a bill that not only ruins the education system, but it has, that's the basis, humiliate teachers, hit their dignity, show that this strong government doesn't care about teachers and - be careful - any further professional group that will strike. Instead of extraordinary solutions, you could use an example. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Italian. That's where the government sat... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u143	Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u144	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It wasn't the teachers who interrupted the strike, it was the board of directors, and don't identify the teaching environment with Mr. Broniary, just to be clear - and you guys do it all the time. [[Member of Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: Sławomir Broniarz.]] I would like to draw attention to one thing, namely that at the beginning of this term, Marshal Cornel Morawiecki said in such a way that the law can be changed according to the will of the nation. Law and Justice have improved this principle by saying that the law changes according to the needs of the rulers. This law is proof that this is just how the law is created in Poland. Why don't you simply solve the problem of strike by giving the teachers the money they deserve? And the question is, are you aware that this law requires - I am curious what you think, what I wanted to say - that you have to introduce regulations into this law, among other things. About the school records? The problem is very serious, because there are companies that, for example. they support electronic logs, and they have to change all that. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I wonder when you'll do it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u145	Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u146	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will answer why the Prime Minister did not have time to meet with the teachers - because he was promoting himself in New York, and therefore it was more important. [[Representing Polish interests.]] Regardless of how you assess a way that is outrageous in a way that the Sejm carries out this law, you eliminate the pedagogical councils from the process of grading pupils. As a last resort, it is up to the authorities who supervise the schools. I have a question: If there is a doctor's strike, will I be operated on by an old man? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The deputy warlords.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u147	Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u148	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The existing rules define in detail the tasks and competences of teachers, but do not specify what they will fail to do. This bill, these records clearly regulate it. President of the Polish Teachers' Association in his speeches and appeals, such as: teachers have in their hands a powerful weapon, which is the promotion of students, went one bridge too far. The student has become a hostage. This is what led to the actions and calls for relationships. And teachers, which I believe, because for many years I was a teacher, have a human sensitivity, that is, they react to the harm of another person, in this case a student. [[The president didn't react.]] Yeah, this year's seniors are hurt by the strike. And yet, among many of my colleagues' responsibilities is to support every student in his development. A government that takes care of all citizens, in this case seniors, must ensure that in every high school [[♪ The bell ♪]] A senior could have had a chance to go to high school. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u149	Mrs Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u150	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Instead of talking seriously to teachers, the government decided to humiliate them and make statutory changes. I have a question: Will the government also change the law and authorize local officials to treat sick people, and Prime Minister Morawiecki will say that they are doctors and wine nurses? And what will you do when all the dissatisfied groups join the teachers? I know that in group strength taught me this year 1980. So think about it. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u151	Ms Agnieszka Chasing, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u152	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Why would you even think that classification would be the responsibility of a governor or a governor? I mean, really, for teaching programs, for mythology, for the qualifications of teachers, for everything that goes on... [[He hires, he hires.]] ...with this substantive part, the probation officer answers, the government answers. Then why don't you give this competence and above all responsibility to the curator to take responsibility for the classification of pupils? This is ridiculous. It's all over the local government. Instead of talking about a clear, clear division of responsibility, for which the local government is responsible, and for which the government, where there is something uncomfortable, you are turning it to the governor. This is the old man's uncle who's supposed to know his way around the world, directly in the U.S.? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[He's the lead organ.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u153	Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u154	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Prime Minister's responsibility is to manage the country and solve the problems of citizens. For this, the entire government, including the Prime Minister, gets a monthly salary from the citizens. But 18 days wasn't enough for the Prime Minister to want to meet with teachers, although he should really negotiate day and night with strikers to restore teaching at the Polish school. Polish children do not go to school for the third week. But like I said, 18 days wasn't enough to... [[It was Christmas, Sundays.]] ...started the Prime Minister's conversation at all. But there's good information coming in. There is hope that next week Polish children will return to school. I thank teachers as a mother of first and fourth graders for making this decision and restoring teaching in Polish schools. But I have an appeal to teachers, [[♪ The bell ♪]] A huge request not to... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u155	Mrs Teresa Wargock, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u156	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, there is an election period and we know why the atmosphere in this room is what it is. I would like to make it very clear at this point that the proposal for teacher increases in 2019 is a proposal of the highest increases that teachers have had in the last 25 years - 15% basic salary. [[Applause]] There were negotiations, there were talks, the government was making further proposals, expanding the offer, also going out for 2020, making an offer of conversation and a round table. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm scared. There will be no in-depth reflection on education. You don't want this conversation, you want a mess. You've taken the hostages of the students, and today, when the government solves this situation, you're against the law that guarantees the students. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm gonna take you to the M.A. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[A voice from the hall: It's a legal bullshit, not a bill. Just like all the education reform.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u157	Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u158	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I would like to apologize to all the teachers and all the parents for the Minister's words about the heated dispute, because it was the deformity that led to the situation where we are. I would like to apologize to all parents, students and teachers for humiliating them. It humiliated parents, students and children. I would like to apologize for this extreme situation that the government has led to. I would like to, but you should apologize for the scandalous words of Minister Jaki, who compared teachers to the Wehrmacht soldiers. I would like to apologize to everyone for the fact that the Prime Minister had no time for 18 days, because in the United States he was talking about judges, comparing them to a collaborator with Hitler of the French government of Vichy... [[♪ The bell ♪]] I apologize to them all, because this is a dispute about dignity... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u159	Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u160	Mr. Marshal! Minister! There are no teachers without students and there are no students without teachers. If we fail to take care of teachers today, if we do not make it an elite profession, what is the future of our children? None. Ladies and gentlemen, we must take care of the teachers. And those teachers... No one has cared for them in many, many years. You guys showed up. And you didn't take care of it either. And worst of all, when there's a problem, you put in the so-called. It's a rescue bill. We act quickly so that the directors will be able to classify. If e.g. It would be in the case of hospitals that doctors would start to strike, so what? Does this mean that only the director of the hospital can go into surgery suddenly, whether it's neurological surgery or surgery? Anything from the principal himself? If teachers take a strike back in September, maybe we can quickly adopt a rescue bill that says it's enough for students between games on consoles to learn online and teachers not to be needed. It's not like that. That's not how it's done, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u161	Mrs Anna Cicholska, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u162	Thank you. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The teacher is a beautiful profession. It's a mission. For years I worked as a didactic director of various educational institutions, in pedagogical supervision. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not imagine that, at such a difficult stage of my life for young people as exams, as teachers, I would not be there for them not to support them. My office is visited by both worried parents, non-scaring teachers and distraught young people, and they ask me: Madam, what are you supposed to do in this situation? We want to be with our teachers. We want to take high school. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u163	Mrs Iwona Krawczyk, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u164	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You don't make the law. This is lawlessness that's been going on for almost four years. The fact that teachers would strike has been known for months. The government had enough time to start negotiations and prevent the protest, but the PiS refused to talk. What's the PiS doing? He's changing the law to get past the law. And you know why? Because the state budget is empty. We're out of money to buy votes, and now we have to use the legislative trick. Lawmaking has become a farce. Why do we need such a facade parliament? Let's vote in absentia. It's gonna be faster, and it's gonna be cheaper. You've deprived teachers of dignity and respect. Every day you prove that there's a paragraph on everyone, and if you don't, you're gonna write it. How about this? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Yes... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u165	Mr Aleksander Mr Forczyński, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u166	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! The need for urgent implementation of the proposed law is dictated by the concern for the well-being of pupils who, in the school year 2018/2019, graduate from general education and technical school and intend to take the final exam immediately after graduation in May of this year. Where the use of Article is envisaged. 1 paragraph 1 point 2, by which the task will be taken over by the host authority? One more thing: the fear of thinking that the opposition would promote the failure of the students to take the prom exam. It's high school time. The students' experiences, their emotions are huge. As a longtime teacher, I appeal to colleagues: be with your students, from whom you should never, at any time, leave. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u167	Mrs Anna Białkowska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u168	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What does PiS want to teach young people? That there are no rules because the rules change in a matter of hours? That teachers are expendable? A classification can be carried out by the mayor. On what grounds? Will they flip a coin or classify it intuitively? You want to teach young people that teachers are bad and unnecessary. [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] You've unleashed a wave of heyt. [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] Have you ever wondered how you raise these young people? [[Voice from the room: Lying.]] You guys did a big circus in the negotiations. It's huge, because it's at the National Stadium. You are destroying not only the school, but also the values of young people. And here is the great success of the government: schools without students, exams without teachers, teachers without money. [[The voice from the hall: Oh, Jesus...]] The future of Poland is threatened, and the curiosal law. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u169	Mr Zbigniew Dolata, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u170	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The fact that the draft amendment to the Law on Education was necessary and necessary is evidence of what happened recently, i.e. the decision of the trade unions to withdraw from the strike, to suspend the strike. [[Applause]] This is the result of the government's amendment of the law. [[Voice from the room: Success.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: You have something to brag about, Mr. President.]] And it is an expression of concern for seniors, parents of seniors who were concerned and expected the government to find a way out of this situation... [[That's where $2.5,000 is. for the teachers you promised?]] ...which came as a result of a strike. And if I hear today that one of your messengers is apologizing to the teachers, that's very good. She just forgot to apologize for eight years of Platform rule, for neglecting... [[Applause]] [[Did they strike back then? We respected the teachers.]] ...for the fact that teachers then, since 2012, have not received any raises and have found themselves in a situation, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Which we now need to find a way out of. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u171	Ms Anna Wasilewska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u172	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I stand before you not as a Member, but above all as a teacher with a 26-year period of work, a teacher who - turns out - is already an unnecessary link in the process of teaching, because here the Prime Minister designates not a teacher, but a school principal or a schoolmaster or a president to classify pupils, i.e. to assess their knowledge. And to whom should the appeals be addressed in the event of any problem? By laws, you change everything, you break the law from the Constitutional Tribunal, by courts, civil servants, and now you destroy the Polish school. After all, it was enough to talk to teachers and show that apart from having their own opinions, they are not Poles of a worse sort. You don't respect teachers. This group doesn't count for you. Maybe they're too educated. But wait, they're about to join the teachers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] employees... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[And posters.]] And posters.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u173	Mr Jerzy Gosievski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u174	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, Minister, is it true that between 2013 and 2015 teachers were raised 3.8% salaries and 16.1% in the last 3 years ? [[If it was so good, why is it so bad?]] What, in your opinion, is the reason for this... [[And for eight years?]] ...that total opposition supports politics... [[Voice from the room: 8 years.]] ...which today's behavior clearly confirms that it works to the detriment of the pupils, as well as to the detriment of their direct educators, teachers, thus denying the dignity of teachers who have to behave irrationally. [[The voice from the room: "PiS" are you talking about?]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Eight years.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u175	Mr Marek Rząsa, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u176	Mr. Marshal! There are no cultural words in the dictionary that could be abusive enough to determine the conduct of Polish education, and above all to Polish teachers. Assuming such words are, their sound would be nothing with your words full of hatred and contempt, the most disgusting manifestation and example of which was the comparison of teachers to Wehrmacht soldiers. You failed to divide the teachers' environment, because the private members of the "Solidarity," in spite of the union's vassal hangovers, joined the strike side by side. You failed to break the teachers, taking them as so-called. holding and launching a whole party-television-Internet machine of hate propaganda against them. Finally, you failed to weaken your sympathy and support for teachers by parents and in a large part of local government. I say this, for example, in my town of Przemyśl, where I visited almost all schools and institutions, having many hours of conversations with colleagues of teachers, whom I warmly greet from this place. This bill clearly shows that in ruining Polish education [[♪ The bell ♪]] You've reached the top... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u177	Mr Andrzej Kryj, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u178	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ministers! The situation is indeed unique, and the exceptional situation requires exceptional solutions and this solution is exceptional. The law we're talking about is a kind of rescue wheel thrown at young people, seniors. And then, when we throw the rescue wheel, we don't ask, ladies and gentlemen, what color is this rescue wheel, whether we throw it with the left hand or the right hand. We're quitting to help someone. And that's how we want to help these young people. [[Applause]] Students have the right to pass this exam in peace. I have a question for the opposition: Have you grown up to help them? Because it's a maturity exam for students, but it's also an exam for us. Such a maturity exam was passed by the teachers who stayed with the students during the exams who were in the teams, and I would like to thank these teachers very much. [[Applause]] Because at this point they behaved the way they should behave. And again, I repeat... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u179	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u180	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Education workers have been practically trying to reach an agreement with the government for a year now, but no one wanted to talk to them. The strike lasts 18 days, and the Prime Minister has never met his teachers once. Minister Zalewska didn't want to talk to them either... [[What if it isn't?]] ...only Prime Minister Szydło has come, but she hasn't achieved any success. [[Voice from the room: Don't lie.]] Unlike you and PiS, I talk to teachers and visited them during the strike. They not only say that they really want to make more money, but they also strike so that their profession is taken seriously, because now the government is just taking them seriously. Therefore, here in the Sejm, I would like to express my full solidarity with the teachers and if we are serious about the development of education, then we politicians have a duty to create good conditions for this to ensure that future generations develop. And we can't save on... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[Kill him bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u181	Mrs Joanna Borowiak, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u182	Dear Marshal, High Seym! The proposed rules respond to the extremely difficult situation in which this year's seniors, young people who, according to the constitutional right to study, want to pass exams, want to pursue their dreams and life plans. These young people and their parents are grateful for this solution, because it is proof of the responsibility and concern of the government for the future of young Poles. Members of the opposition! Why are you cynically using protesting teachers? You're taking selfies against protesters and warming up politically. Today you say you care about teachers, but you didn't show it when you were in power. You have frozen the wages not only to teachers, but to the entire budget area for a few years, without valorization. Members of the opposition! Don't be hypocrites, show me you care about $300,000. The seniors that you care about their future. Support this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u183	Mr Marek Owa, Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u184	Mr. Marshal! Mr Fellow Members of the PiS! You're hopeless, you're tragic, you're vermin. [[Applause]] And I'm saying this as the father of an eighth grader. Because it wasn't the teacher's strike that caused problems in the Polish education system, it was Zalewska's deformity... [[Platform and PSL governments.]] ...and the contempt you show for the teaching environment has led to the danger of thousands of children and young people. What you're doing is a kind of martial law introduced into education. Jaruzelski did it under the cover of the night, just as you will defend Minister Zalewska tonight under the cover of the night. [[Applause]] which is not surprising, because normally it is a shame to defend someone who has harmed Polish children and Polish youth so much. And finally, President Lincoln's words: You can cheat a lot of people for a while, some people all the time, but you can't cheat a nation all the time. That time is coming. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u185	Mr Kazimierz Moskal, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u186	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Indeed, some of the people on this side of the room, your language of love is very, but it is very upbuilding. I think - and we're talking about an agreement - that you're showing yourselves who you are. I have a question for the Minister. This extraordinary bill was created for some reason. Of course, part of this room says it's against teachers. On the other hand, I would like the Minister to state clearly what was the reason for this extraordinary procedure and by the government, and now by the Sejm? Isn't the student's welfare the most important thing? There are a lot of people in the room, they say they're teachers, only if they really were teachers, they'd say the student's well-being is the most important thing. The teacher's well-being is important, the decent pay is important, the right to strike is important, but... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u187	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Nemś, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u188	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I don't know if you realize that there are no winners in this conflict. If you look at your i-falls, you'll see that the teachers have been most responsible. [[Applause]] They suspended the strike at this point. The Minister came to life for a moment, she stood up, so eagerly. Ladies and gentlemen! You showed that you chickened out, and you threw responsibility on the local government. You didn't talk to the teachers. Why, Prime Minister, you put so many lies in public space. Why are you creating such a caricature of the law all this time, why are you destroying this unique bond between young people and teachers, why don't you let them have this satisfaction and take their exams calmly? Ladies and gentlemen! For me, the school doesn't have Mr. Broniar's face, as you're trying to say, but Michael Zbieński, who has been volunteering for several years to teach seniors for high school... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u189	Mrs Mirosława Stachowiak-Różecka, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u190	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! We want all the participants in the education system to be really happy, so that the children are mostly happy, so that their parents are happy. We understand very well that for this system to work well, the teacher must be satisfied and well motivated. I would therefore like to ask the Minister: Is there still a current proposal which has been submitted to teachers, an increase in the salary, the number of hours at the board by 4 hours, which will result in a gross salary of PLN 7700 or an increase of 6 hours, which will result in a salary for the teacher of PLN 8100 gross? In my view, this is a really noteworthy proposal, and I encourage teachers to really look at it because it is very beneficial at the moment when the emotions drop, when the strike is suspended. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u191	Member Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u192	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Since this Saturday, teachers suspend the protest in their sense of responsibility for the fate of the Polish school and students. But will someone in the sense of responsibility on the part of the Law and Justice finally apologize to the students who haven't had a class in three weeks apologize to their parents for having to organize custody of their children, and eventually apologize to the teachers for what you're doing, for comparing the Polish teacher to the Wehrmacht, for actually slandering him every day? My question is simple, Minister. This is the biggest responsibility right now, the most important question: Who will teach our children in the future, since you have really destroyed the prestige of the Polish teacher over the past few weeks? It's a key thing. And the truth is... [[But who destroyed it? Who destroyed it?]] ...nothing's over. Nothing's over, 'cause it's September and another two years, another chaos. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Which... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u193	Member Tomasz Zieliński, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u194	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Each of you may have had such experience that parents of senior year students who were concerned that their children might have been unclassified and could not have taken the exam. Ladies and gentlemen! Many of them did not initially deprive teachers of the right to strike, but over time their tolerance decreased when exams were approaching. Their willingness to allow this was getting smaller and many of them wanted to make changes to the Educational Law, such as to eliminate the element of randomness in the promotion of the disciple. So it was necessary. And that is why the government's proposal is addressed to students, teachers, school heads who very often did not know what to do, and many, many teachers who were trapped by activists, heads of the Polish Teachers' Association. And the question is simple: Is it a coincidence that a strike has been suspended today when such government proposals are being made? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u195	Mr Grzegorz July, Club Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u196	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, fear God, what are you doing? You act like that pyromaniac who set fire to the woods and then stands in a crowd of stares and pretends to look sad, and then he waters the fire with gasoline. You haven't really talked to your teachers in months. In the public media they are mostly humiliated, the minister leaves everything and goes away to Brussels, the minister of what teachers in Sosnowiec are associated with in Wehrmacht, the trolls on the network describe the crying cousins, and now you offer this to teachers. Is this your idea of dialogue? If they protest the bus drivers, will you take your officials with your driver's license and they'll replace them? If the cops protest, you'll send a ranger on patrol, won't you? If the doctors protest, maybe they'll treat the National Health Fund officials? This is humiliating teachers and obstructing the state. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u197	Member Krystyna Wróblewska, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u198	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! In May, the most important exam in the life of a young man is to be held, the graduation exam. I am aware that in some schools in Poland, especially in big cities, there could be a problem with this, so I have a question to ask the Minister: Is the government project going to calm down the mood around the exams and will this bill contribute to the fact that the exam will take place and young people will be able to realize their dreams? Thank you very much to teachers, school heads, local government officials, where the classification has already taken place. I am convinced that the profession of teacher, the profession of school principal is a profession of public trust and that exams will also take place in other schools. And scaring, respectable, dear opposition, September is not justified, because the Polish teacher is very... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u199	Member of Katarzyna Osos, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u200	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On the one hand, we have hundreds of thousands of seniors who want to take the prom exam for their future, on the other hand hundreds of thousands of teachers who not only fight for higher wages but also for dignity, so that education is one of the government's priorities to finally be a real education reform. And we expected - as you can see, naively - that the government would take the subject seriously, that it would make reasonable proposals and talk until both sides were satisfied. Unfortunately, you chose the force solution because this project is the solution. Excuse me, but you've shown the teachers the middle finger of this project, you've shown that they're unnecessary, and the solution to the problem you're trying to transfer to the directors and local government. That is why I thank the teachers today that they have suspended the strike, because that means that this bill will remain only on paper. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u201	Member Iwona Michalek, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u202	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to thank, above all, those teachers who were volunteers very often. when the opposition decided that teachers teaching them should leave their students. The fact that the strike was political from the beginning, we all know, because at the very time when there are Matura, to make a strike, this is really something psychic in my opinion. Ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to ask... [[You've known this since January.]] ...opposition: Why didn't you call on Mr. Broniar to strike when you froze the teachers' wages during your reign? Well, that's when it happened. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] then he should strike, he should call on teachers to strike, because for so many years they had no raise at all. It's just us, the United Right, [[♪ The bell ♪]] We did what we had to do. [[Applause]] [[But you're lying.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u203	Peter Müller, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u204	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As Deputy Minister of Science and Higher Education, I would also like to assure seniors that, thanks to this law, all recruitment dates will be kept at universities according to the exact plan provided for by the university's recruitment resolutions. And that's one of the most important reasons why this law is being carried out today - so that the seniors can do their graduations calmly, [[Applause]] It is first, secondly, that, in the university Senate's earlier appointments, the higher school senates should be admitted to college so that they can use their vacations in peace, which you would like to destroy by making these Maturas take place probably in the middle of this holiday. To this end, the government must not allow and take responsible action on this matter so that these exams can actually take place on time - both oral and written exams, and then recruitment for studies. That's what this bill is for, ladies and gentlemen, so that seniors, students, the most important subject of education, the most important subject of education, can actually join these exams in peace. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u205	Member Dariusz Piontkowski, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u206	From this speaker, the total opposition often hears just blackmail and threats. You're acting like the bosses of one of the trade unions. We instead of blackmail and threats give hope - hope that the exams will take place within the normal time and according to the rules according to which they took place for many years. You talk a lot about the authority of teachers here. I feel that this authority has sometimes been destroyed by some of them and they will have to work again in the near future to regain that authority. Those who have ever worked in school know that the teacher primarily works with his students to his authority. I hope that this authority will also be maintained in the coming years. Finally, you should read the laws with understanding. It's not the ghetto. whether the mayor will possibly classify, only designate the teacher who will make such classification. You have to read the laws and understand them. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u207	Thank you very much. We've run out of voice mail. Mr Michał Dworczyk, Head of the Office of the President of the Council of Ministers, will now speak at the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers. [[And the Minister couldn't?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u208	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! High Izbo! Tonight we will have plenty of time to talk about the education system, about the challenges facing Polish education. I think that in this discussion there will be a number of answers to the questions that have been asked in this Chamber. Unfortunately, there were not so many substantive questions. Those who are not satisfied will receive a written reply. However, I would like to make a few comments after this series of questions or speeches. Firstly, I would like to respond to unfair and, I believe, dirty trips to the Minister Anna Zalewska, Minister of National Education. [[She's planning a trip.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is an absolutely normal matter, a normal procedure, although it does not happen very often, that the Prime Minister himself presents the bill, the Prime Minister, who is represented by the Head of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers in accordance with the rules in force before the Lower and Higher House. This has been the case many times, and such situations have also taken place during this term of office. The Prime Minister, in order to give particular importance to a given case, and in this case the Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki puts a very large... [[And he didn't come.]] ...weight, to solve the problem of the threat of the exams, he himself took action and prepared a draft law which we present to you. Secondly, in these speeches which you have just presented, unfortunately more than substantive arguments were contempt, accusations and such a confrontational tone. The only question is: Will this contempt and this confrontational tone replace the solution for seniors if a school doesn't have a maturity test? Oh, no. So, what do you want to offer in return? We were all very pleased to hear that the SGP suspended the protest, suspended the strike. All teachers who return to their pupils, to their subjects, must be thanked, but because the moods have been so hot in recent weeks, also, Mr President, by unfortunate statements, I assume, the statements of the opposition parliamentarians, which only heated the moods rather than tone them, we have no guarantee that these classifications will take place in all schools. And that is why it is necessary to carry out this law - we cannot risk even one school, that the exams could not take place. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] Because the student's well-being, the senior's well-being is a top priority here. I still have to refer to one comment from which it was possible to conclude that it was thanks to local governments that eighth grade exams and middle school exams took place. These exams took place mainly thanks to thousands of volunteers, teachers, [[Applause]] who volunteered so that the students could take the exams. They need to be thanked. Today we should all be grateful to them because it was thanks to them that these exams could be carried out. Finally, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, great request: let's cool our emotions, work on preparing new assumptions for the reform, the next stage of the reform of the education system... [[You'd better not do anything.]] ...and today let's pass a bill that will guarantee that all seniors will be able to take the maturity test. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u209	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. Are students from schools in Savage and Mechowiec already present in the Chamber, or are they just coming? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] They're here. Then we greet students from primary schools in Savage and Mechowiec in Podkarpacie. [[Applause]] And important information: from schools that didn't strike. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! In the discussion, proposals were made to reject the project at first reading and to proceed without delay to second reading without referring the draft law back to the committee. We will proceed to the vote on these proposals after the break. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 minutes 14 hours 14 min 26]] I'm reopening the session. In view of the proposal to supplement the agenda by a point: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Law on the Supreme Court and certain other laws, print Nos 3396 and 3396-A, when submitted to the Convention of Seniors, an objection was raised. This is according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to complete the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of The adoption of the proposal to supplement the agenda will mean that the Sejm has agreed to the application of the Article. 51 (3) of the Sejm Regulation. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Law on the Supreme Court and certain other laws, prints No 3396 and 3396-A, in the event of its submission, would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 400 Members voted. For - 222, against - 178, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the offer. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in discussions on the agenda item added. If I don't hear any objection, I'll understand... [[Objection.]] There's an objection. [[I'll give you a reason.]] There's no need to justify it. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] It's okay. The objection will be overruled. [[Mr. Marshal, don't you want to know why?]] [[Mr. Marshal, I'd like to make an alternative offer, and I have to say what we're proposing.]] There's an objection. If the opposition is accepted, then the proposal will be made. [[But I have to tell you...]] We'll proceed with the vote. We will be voting on the proposal of the Sejm Bureau. Who among your fellow Members is in favour of the Sejm listening to the five-minute statements, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 402 Members voted. For - 224, against - 178, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the offer. [[What's the second offer?]] The Council of Ministers submitted a draft law on the Polish Geological Agency, print no.3378. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, there was opposition to the proposal to complete the agenda for the first reading of this project. This is according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to complete the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: First reading of the government draft law on the Polish Geological Agency, print no 3378, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 404 Members voted. For - 228, against - 175, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the offer. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in discussions on the agenda item added. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. [[Objection.]] There's an objection. In that case, we are voting on the proposal of the Sejm Bureau. Who among you is in favour of the Sejm listening to five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles at this point, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 406 Members voted. For - 228, against - 178, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the offer. We are returning to the examination of item 29 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on amending the law on the education system and the law on education. In the discussion, proposals were made to reject the draft law at first reading and to proceed immediately to second reading without referring the draft law back to committee. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the bill. The question is asked by Mr Urszula Augustyn, the Civic Platform Club. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u210	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill isn't for anybody. That's ruining the law. I must say that I was very touched by Minister Dworczyk, who stood before the High House and now, after 3 years of devastateing the Polish school, suddenly he called us all to work together over divisions, so that we would do in almost the next pick and spoil what was still written somewhere by the predecessors. I now call on Minister Dworczyk, Prime Minister, the whole government and the law and justice club... [[Question?]] ...I call you to show decency for once and sit down with your teachers to talk. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: Uh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u211	Let me remind you, we're in the middle of asking questions. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of accepting the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print no.3398, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. For - 173, against - 237, no one stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. I will put to the vote a motion to proceed immediately to the second reading of the bill without referring it back to the committee. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of your fellow Members is in favour of the request to immediately proceed to the second reading of the draft law in print no. 3398 without referring to the committee, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 408 Members voted. For - 234, against - 174, no one stopped. The Sejm has accepted the motion. We'll proceed with the second reading of the bill. Would any of you like to speak at second reading? [[Halicki on behalf of the Platform.]] Mr Dariusz Piontkowski proposed to speak. Later, Mr Kulesza, right? I'm opening a discussion. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u212	Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u213	Excuse me, sir. We still have to set the time. I propose that the Sejm listen to three-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles at this point. [[Applause]] It's okay. [[Voices from the room: No, no.]] There's an objection, all right. Ladies and gentlemen, we must formally vote against. I will put to the vote a proposal for three minutes' notice. Who of you is in favour of the proposal that, at this point, the Sejm should listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and wheels, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 403 Members voted. For - 230, against - 173, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the offer. As the first Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, Club Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u214	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As we have said, the bill is the result of an emergency situation and therefore an extraordinary solution, but at the same time it is a solution which, in the long term, can help in unforeseen situations. Today we are talking primarily about a strike, but there may also be a situation that teachers will not be at school for some reason when the school year ends, and then this law provides for what to do in such a situation. So far, this has not been done by the law of education. It is worth recalling something that you have repeatedly spoken about when asking questions, suggesting that the bill provides that it is the mayor, the mayor or the governor who will classify the students or issue the assessments. The State probably did not read this law or understood what was written there. The law clearly indicates that only if the school head does not decide on the classification or indicates the teacher who would make the classification, then the local government authority, i.e. the mayor, the district board or the voivodship board, will determine whether or not he can designate the teacher who will make the classification. Therefore, there is no direct transfer of powers to the local government, a governor who does not necessarily have to be a teacher. Some of you suggested that this should be done by a probation officer in such exceptional situations, but this is again contrary to what you have said many times, they have accused us that we are over-enlarging the probation officer's powers by taking them away from local governments. In front of your voices, we have caused the local government to deal with it this time. He has the authority to organize school work, to organize exams, including prom exams. The consequence is such a provision in the bill, You also said that we didn't want to talk. What to call repeated attempts by the Prime Minister, Prime Minister, Minister, who repeatedly sent signals to teachers and talked about it... [[When did the Prime Minister talk to the teachers?]] ...with which proposals, including wages, go to the teachers' community. We have said many times that we want this profession to be well rewarded. This proposal is still valid, but you can't do it all at once. I've told you several times that you see us as miracle workers. We're just people, people who are efficient and effectively rule the state, but who can't do everything. We promise to raise these salaries even more in the following years when we rule Poland. Finally, in order to allow for the swift procedure of this law, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I propose that you join the third reading without delay. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u215	Thank you, sir. Mr Andrzej Halicki, the Civic Platform Club, will speak at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u216	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The president has already left, faster not to hear that he is responsible for this chaos, because you will pay, I remind you once again, for this chaos in school, for this arrogance... [[Come on.]] ...for humiliating teachers, for treating them like this, you will pay for it on May 26th, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] And then in the fall. [[Applause]] You're adopting a law that, from the very beginning, is now an act of lawlessness. It's obvious. [[How many schools have you closed in Poland?]] You don't solve any problem because you can't do exams by decree. From this point on, I would like to thank the teachers because they are responsible. [[Voice from the hall: How many thousands of teachers have you fired?]] The European Coalition thanks you for your responsibility, for your concern for school and for your solidarity. [[Applause]] I'm gonna say again that you're gonna have a serious partner in the fall, and there's not gonna be any tricks like that because it's not a miracle... [[Don't scare me.]] ...that you create a special law to make self-governments responsible... [[Go to college.]] ...instead of teaching councils being the classic ones. Have you talked to local government officials about this? [[A state of emergency.]] Is that what you consulted? No consultation, no arrogance, I'll tell you more, no shame. If that's how you make the law, and that's what it looks like in other areas, then you can only ask yourself what else can be corrupted. Well, I wanted to tell you that you'd better not touch anything anymore. [[Applause]] Tomorrow you want to convene a debate about education at the former Ten Years Stadium, today's National Stadium. Do not be surprised that no one in these rallies will participate in propaganda because the teachers know that they will hear from there in a moment that they are scumbags. This was the case in 1976. You're going exactly the same way. And just as that power has been settled, so will you be accounted for. [[Applause]] [[Shame!]] The Civic Platform and European Coalition Club, once again, in line with the declaration we adopted on Friday, guarantees a serious discussion not only about money, but also about education reform, school autonomy, the basis for teaching, which must be with teachers, with this environment, because you have also destroyed the quality of teaching, and the position and competence of the student. We're gonna go back to all of this in the fall, and today we're gonna vote against this bull, because, as you know, it's illegal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u217	Member Tomasz Jaskoła, Kukiz club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u218	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The situation is actually difficult because the Polish Teachers' Union suspended the strike, but we do not know if it will suspend it. Ladies and gentlemen! Some of these speakers thank the strikers, others do not, some thank the defender, while no one speaks about the quality of the Polish school and the merology, how to change the system. Many of you who are here in this room are teachers. In order to change the teaching system, we need to change the management system, decentralise the school, introduce a school voucher, and finally eliminate the Teacher's Charter. Many of you are self-government and, as self-government, you say that the Teacher Card is an obstacle. I agree with that. Ladies and gentlemen! We have no choice, the world is changing, and in the 21st century new experiences are generated for us. Therefore, we have only two teaching models that we can pursue: either Finnish or Anglo-Saxon. On the other hand, the smartest people who have played a very important role in education alone say that we cannot design it 10 and 20 years ahead. What's the problem? The problem is, none of your schools will change. The problem is that neither believers nor non-believers will heal the Polish school, because the centralized school - you have 24 or 25 thousand. schools - unable to reform. It's impossible. Finland has 5.5 million inhabitants, Poland - 38 million. System changes need to be made. Ladies and gentlemen! Many students who are there at the gallery lack soft skills, so much needed in the world of the Internet. And the Polish school is overloaded with encyclopedic and unnecessary knowledge. It doesn't learn cooperation or cooperation, it doesn't work in design. When's the change time? When there will be no believers or non-believers in this House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Sharp!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u219	Please. Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Posel Club, has the floor. Excuse me, Mr Michał Kaminski, a club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u220	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think it is worth to start by saying thank you to the teachers for giving another lesson today, this time to the rulers, a lesson in responsibility for Polish youth, a lesson in responsibility for Polish school. [[Touchdown, applause]] Today, teachers need to teach this authority that is honking about success, but if you think that your victory, as you say, is that the strike is suspended, then this declaration of your victory can only be accepted as true if it is otherwise recognized that you are fighting the nation, because only in the logic of fighting the nation can you claim that what happened today is your success. [[Applause]] Because today everyone in this country, in our country, realizes that in order to spend the money of Polish taxpayers for the future of our children, for education, the need for strike, the need for conflict, the need for uncertainty in Polish families. But in order to spend Polish taxpayers' money on fooling Poles 24 hours a day on public television - in this House we voted to transfer over PLN 1 billion to an institution ruled by a man who said: The dark people will buy it... [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] And this dark people, whom you Poles consider to be, is not a dark people, but a free nation, and you will soon find it very, very painfully. [[Applause]] Today, this nation knows the price you're trying to bullshit him with. This price is money for a radio station in Toruń, it's money for public television. It's about the money that's missing for people who really need it. [[Game in the hall, applause]] Mr. Marshal! I would suggest that the marshal pay attention to his party buddies, not to shout out loud, which seem to suggest that certain stereotypes about your party are true. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] To put it clearly, it is about stereotypes, statements that suggest that parliamentarianism and Europeanity are not your strengths. I would call for the restoration of elementary order, culture and Christian love. The optimism of all Poles is filled with polls which are getting better for those who want to stop us in Europe, not for those who want to get us out of Europe. Mr. Marshal! Thanking once again on behalf of the club PSL and the Union of European Democrats teachers for their struggle for the future of Polish children, for the future of Poland, I would like to say that we cannot support this bill, because, unfortunately, as many things you do, you introduce it against the law and against justice. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u221	Thank you. Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Posel Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u222	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! First of all, I wanted to thank the teachers for their responsibility, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Because, contrary to what you're saying, it's because of teachers, because of school heads and because of local governments, there were exams of juniors and eighth graders. It's the teachers I have to check out these jobs, and if they didn't get back to work, you'd have a problem with that. It's the teachers that are needed to conduct their M.A.'s, and that's why they decided to suspend the strike today. Ladies and gentlemen, you're talking about a round table. What I'm saying is that the round table is way too late, about three and a half years. Then you destroyed Polish education. Instead of introducing it smoothly in the 21st century, you introduced it very smoothly into the 19th century. Your thoughtlessness, your ideology of education has led to the biggest strike since 1993. You now have four more months thanks to the teachers to make conversations so you can reach an agreement so that you don't get stuck in this dispute, just simply implement their demands, because they deserve it - unlike those who got the prizes. I appeal to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, who is not here today, for him to make the conversation. Let him stop hiding behind ministers: Minister Zalewska, Minister Dworczyk, Prime Minister Beata Szydło. It was the teachers who had long asked for a meeting with Mateusz Morawiecki. What did they get instead? Promise of a hypothetical round table where PiS will meet himself. It is thanks to teachers that we can say that our children are taught in any good way, because it is the teachers who save Polish education from the deformity of Minister Zalewska, from bad programs, from hopeless textbooks, from the gaps in the program that you gave them - from everything that makes these children's chances for development less than the chances of children in other European countries. It's all yours, the lack of hope that Polish education will be better. It's worth investing in teachers because they can create a school of our dreams. As a modern European Coalition, we assure you that we will achieve what we promised in the declaration for Polish education: greater autonomy of teachers, the possibility of developing them, the possibility of working with real good teaching programs that give the child a chance to develop, workshops that will actually enable practical education, which is lacking in Polish schools. That is the modern goal, that is the goal of the European Coalition. And now? Now we're not gonna let that bullshit of yours pass without an echo. We're once again filing a motion to reject it at second reading, because really, we shouldn't break the law, we should just fix it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And you're ruining it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u223	Thank you. Mr Jakub Kulesz, Member of the Polish Confederation, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u224	Thank you, Marshal, for those three minutes. High Izbo! Minister! Mr. Marshal! Will this law solve just one problem of Polish education? [[Yes.]] You know very well that it will not help parents, teachers, students, children. [[There's gonna be graduations.]] This bill is just political chess. It is a game of chess between Prime Minister Morawiecki and Chairman Broniar, a game of chess in which the Chairman of the Broniar has sewn the government of Law and Justice, taking hostage ordinary pawns: children, parents, as well as some teachers. The Prime Minister turned out to be a prominent political chess player and made a checkmate discussed today by the bill. Mr. Defendor had to surrender the party, but is this the last batch of the war for education? No, these parties will repeat themselves because this system, this law on education, is designed to generate eternal conflict. The only way teachers get a raise is by strike and teachers will strike in a month, six months from now, four years from now, in the next term. The only solution is to change the system. As a KORWiN party, we proposed education for six. That's six specific recipes to solve the problem. It's the cessation of central wage control. Let's introduce a real-life education voucher, so that local governments act like efficient companies and directors like real managers. For that to happen, they must have control over who, what rules and how much they employ. It's also about parents having an influence on it. The second point, which was also signed by Mr Bronisz, surprisingly, is the elimination of all this bureaucracy, curatoria, ministry, this unnecessary ballast, which makes the teacher sits under the board for 18 hours, and yet another one fills in bullshit polls, no-one needs forms. An example of terrible law is this law. I'll read it. 44zzy the following Article shall be inserted: 44zzz. I understand that with the next amendment after the article. 44zzz we'll add an article. 44zzza. That's what makes this law, this education so complicated, impossible that there is no competition, and there is bureaucracy and there are constant political disputes. This chess game is also a simple electoral calculation. Well, a project such as a reduction in PIT for 16 million voters would cost 500 PLN for voters, with pension benefits - 1.1 thousands, at PLN 500 per child - 2 000, while you calculated that it would cost as much as 17 thousand in the implementation of teachers' demands. And for that price, there's not enough votes. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's nothing more than a cynical calculation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u225	Please. Mr Jarosław Porwich, Circle of Members of the Free and Solidarni, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u226	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! First of all, children can't be part of anyone's blackmail. [[Applause]] Secondly, children can't be held hostage by anyone. Thirdly, the Free and Solidarni Circle is strongly in favour of this law. Definitely in favor. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u227	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed... Minister Michał Dworczyk, head of the Prime Minister's firm, asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u228	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! High Izbo! I would like to repeat the rhetorical question to those who have been here. What would you ladies and gentlemen of the parliamentarians like to propose to this year's seniors, aside from the insulting remarks you have made to the government, often rude? What are you suggesting? [[What do you suggest?]] Because we're proposing a law that, if we pass it, every senior will be sure that he can take the maturity test on May 6. [[Applause]] [[Isn't it today?]] Secondly, I would like to ask the High House, ladies and gentlemen of the parliamentarians, to change their thinking. The question here was whether the statement about those who are to win, who are to lose. Ladies and gentlemen, today, through support for this bill, we can lead to the fact that the only winners will not be the law or the left side of the parliament hall, but the only winners will be the seniors. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Because it's the seniors who will be able to sleep peacefully tonight, get ready for graduation, and on May 6 take the maturity exam. [[Voice from the room: And parents.]] Finally, High Izbo, I would like to thank you for the appeal that was formulated here a few minutes earlier, among others. by Mrs Augustine, for dialogue - the question of whether we will sit down, whether Mr Morawiecki will sit with the teachers, and the call for dialogue and conversation. [[Exactly.]] Of course I do. Tomorrow, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki at 3 p.m. 12 will be waiting... [[In the games.]] ...at the round table and I hope that we will all see each other at this round table, because only as part of the dialogue... [[Oh, bravo!]] ...only within the framework of the consensus can we develop assumptions for further education reform. [[Applause]] I'm asking you to support this bill. [[Applause]] [[There's a call at the stadium.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u229	Thank you. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u230	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The law on which we are proceeding is a typical example of proposals for solutions that are a need for the moment. And this was dominated by the teachers' strike, and it is a normal phenomenon, but also by the danger of promoting students in schools - and it is not normal anymore. If school education councils fail to classify and promote pupils, the school principal will be responsible for this, and if he does not perform these tasks, the teacher appointed by the school authority will do so. Life brings different scenarios, previously unforeseen. Unfortunately, some of the protesting teachers - I trust that a small one - would seem to have exceeded the limit of the red line, calling for the non-classifying of the students or intending to do so. I have questions addressed only to them - and these are unfortunately rhetorical questions. Isn't that a denial of their previous attitude towards working as best as possible for their students? Does the idea of the ethos of the teacher's work have any right in their case? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u231	In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at second reading. I propose that the Sejm proceed to the third reading without directing this request to the committee. If I don't hear any objection, I'll understand that the Sejm... [[Voices from the room: Objection.]] Let's see if the Sejm accepts the offer, so let me finish. I hear an objection, and we will therefore vote. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting... [[But what is it?]] ...on the proposal to join the third reading without referring a request to the committee. [[The motion for rejection.]] Who of your Members is in favour of adopting the proposal for immediate accession to the third reading of the bill, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: There is a motion for rejection.]] [[A further motion for rejection.]] 402 Members voted. For - 225, against - 175, with a hold of 2. The Sejm accepted the offer. We proceed to the third reading. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of accepting the motion to reject the bill in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 404 Members voted. For - 169, against - 235, no one stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print no. 3398, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 403 Members voted. For - 235, against - 168, no one held back. I state that the Sejm has passed a law on amending the Act on the Education System and the Law on Education. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] Thank you very much. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 min. 58 hours 15]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government draft law amending the Act on Employment Promotion and Employment Market Institutions (Prints 3363 and 3370). I ask Mr Grzegorz Matusiak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u232	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Amendments were tabled at the meeting of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy on 10 April 2019. One of these was adopted and the draft law was adopted by the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u233	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Anna Schmidt-Rodziewicz, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u234	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice with regard to the draft law amending the Act on employment promotion and labour market institutions from print no. 3363. The rules proposed by the government provide for instruments that will positively affect the labour market. They will enable labour authorities to have a more flexible impact on the needs of the unemployed and will positively affect the speed and effectiveness of the assistance provided to them. The project is also beneficial for employers who will have a better chance of finding the right candidate for work. The experience of countries where the concept of profiling or profiling the unemployed is used shows that the application of profiling obligations and the establishment of a closed catalogue of possible forms of aid is not an effective solution. Most countries use more flexible profiling solutions and this is what the current government is proposing. The need for legislative changes is due both to the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 6 June 2018 and to the results of the evaluation of the profiling of aid carried out at the county labour offices. The current employment promotion legislation has three profiles of unemployment aid and a range of forms of aid provided under these profiles are defined. The closed catalogue of possible forms assigned to each of these three profiles had an impact on the poor performance of the work offices. This was particularly true for those with a defined third profile, i.e. covering the unemployed most excluded and remote from the labour market, who are at risk of social exclusion for various reasons. The limited access of this unemployed group to basic labour market services significantly reduced the chance to activate its members. First of all, the new law proposes that this procedure be abandoned for any unemployed person. Thus, each governor will be able to apply to the unemployed all forms of aid provided for in the Employment Promotion Act without restrictions resulting from the aid profile established for him. At the same time, in order to ensure that Poland can make use of European funds in the financial perspective 2021 and meet the EU conditions, the Act clarifies the existing provisions on the preparation and implementation of the individual action plan. The assistance provided by the work offices under the individual action plan is to be adapted to the individual needs and opportunities of the unemployed or job-seeker, taking into account his education, work experience and the possibility of taking up a job or business activity. This individual action plan will be modified according to the changing situation of the unemployed or jobseekers. The proposals for changes therefore provide flexibility, professionalism and individual approach to each of the unemployed, including flexible forms of contact with the unemployed, by telephone, e-mail or post, which is particularly important for people with disabilities. I would like to stress that government proposals meet the expectations of unemployed people, employers and labour offices. That is why Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support the proposed bill. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u235	Thank you. Mrs Mrzygłocka presented her position in writing. Please, Mrs Agnieszka Chasing, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u236	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 in relation to the proposed law amending the employment promotion law and the labour market institutions from print no. 3363. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the law is the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal and abolishes the bad record that appeared a few years ago concerning the profiling of unemployed persons in employment offices. Bad, because it did not really change the situation of the unemployed, the long-term unemployed, but, on the contrary, ruled out many forms of aid. The purpose of this amendment, this law - although it is difficult to call it a law, is simply an amendment forced by the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal - is actually individualised support, i.e. to enable individualised support given to unemployed persons by labour offices. It is, of course, right, only that in the current work offices it is impossible, simply impossible. Ladies and gentlemen! Relatively, unemployment has been decreasing all the time, every year, gradually since 2013, when it was 10%. Now it's 2017 and it's already 4.4%. There is a successful increase in expenditure on labour offices, not to mention EU funds, which are huge, for active labour market policies, and very often the spending of these funds raises great doubts. The fact that the labour offices are inefficient confirms every inspection by the Supreme Audit Office, which simply indicates that at the labour offices efficiency is not measured, and it is not really possible to determine whether 12 billion PLN from the Labour Fund, but also EU money is simply spent effectively. Speaking of how we have a moment today when we are talking about dialogue, how to reform, how to introduce social change, which is undoubtedly necessary after 30 years of transformation, because the socio-economic environment has changed, we are in the Union, we have many innovative projects that have been implemented that have taught us, as in other countries of the European Union, work with unemployed people in the world. We spent a huge amount of money on this, and in fact the effects of these projects were simply thrown into the basket, into the drawer. There is no reform of labour offices, inefficient labour offices, and there is not even a discussion about it. Starting our term of office, we organized a round table, a conference of professionals, specialists. The Deputy Minister came from Slovakia, who said how the labour offices had reformed, how the active labour market policy system in Slovakia had reformed, so that it is effective at the moment. There were two inefficient systems: social assistance and labour offices, currently 70% the clients of these institutions are the same persons. We've invited a scientific community. The World Bank has undertaken to finance this conference. We have invited the government, specialists, also labour offices to talk about how active labour market policies can be changed, which is simply outdated and does not allow us to implement modern methods of individualised support. None of you showed up at this conference. During so many speeches and committee meetings, we proposed a discussion on this subject. We'd save money. We pointed out that at this point, there would be 5 billion PLN for teachers. A sensible reform of these institutions could be carried out in line with the Treaty of Lisbon of the European Union, combining these two failing systems. You haven't even discussed it. And then, when there's trouble, there's gonna be more strikes, budget shortages, and you're gonna say we're gonna call a round table. Why aren't you discussing with a substantive opposition from Kukiz15? We show solutions supported by earlier EU projects, experience of other countries, university reports, professionals. We show that this could be done in other countries. Why aren't we having this dialogue? Why are we not talking about concrete reforms of the state that need to be carried out? You can't put money in holes. Undoubtedly, the labour offices are a broken system. Many times all the servants have pointed to this. And it's not that bad officials work there. There are good professionals working there, poorly paid and having absolutely unrealistic tools to actually provide individual aid. We showed the model described, carefully developed. There's no discussion, ladies and gentlemen. There's no discussion. And how are we to respond later to how you invite people to talk at a time when there are fires, when we really want to talk and we say that you need to reform. Labour offices are the first institution to be reformed. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u237	Thank you. Mr Krystian Jarubas put his position in writing. Mrs Monika Rosa, Modern. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u238	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This bill aims to eliminate profiling, which is the right solution. This is indicated by both the judgment of the Constitutional Court and the position of the Supreme Audit Chamber, the Ombudsman or the General Data Protection Officer. This is, of course, a rather fragmented amendment, because we are facing very big challenges. The first of these challenges is related to low unemployment, which we welcome, as with low unemployment there is a need for reform of the labour offices and their functioning. At present, the unemployment system is mainly based on long-term unemployed people who need an individual support system, a completely different way out of long-term unemployment. Hence my question: With this low unemployment, are you planning any reform of the functioning of labour offices in the current situation in the labour market? If so, what is it? The second issue, often raised by employers, concerns the lack of workers in the labour market. PwC calculated that by 2025 around 1.5 million workers would be missing in Poland. Today, this gap is filled mainly by people looking for work from the East, among others. from Ukraine. On the other hand, these people will not work forever in Poland unless we provide them with institutional support, presence of families, quick job opportunities, permits or start-ups. Let us remind you that the Czechs and the Germans are also struggling with the problem of seeking hands for work and are not standing idle. In this way they build their law, the institutions of the state, to bring together as many people as possible in the context of labour migration related to job search. Hence my question: Is there any action being taken to bring people to the labour market? For in the near future we will face a reality in which there will be no one to work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u239	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to join us again, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Time - one and a half minutes. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u240	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would not like us to feel that, when considering this project, the issues of employment promotion and the functioning of the labour market institutions are dealt with. The real problem in Poland is not unemployment at the moment, but the fact that we have one of the lowest employment rates in Europe calculated by the CSO, which in the 15+ group is only 56.1% And it's about 10%. lower than in the highly developed countries of Europe, especially in the west and north of us. If people who do not operate in the labour market were to be activated, this ratio would be 10%. , we'd have at our disposal ok. Three million hands to work. This should be the main objective of the functioning of the labour market institutions, as well as the link between labour market institutions and social protection, because we know that we have a huge part of people who are not interested in doing any work at all. I would like to ask whether any work is underway and whether there are any thoughts on the increase in labour force participation rates in Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u241	Thank you very much. Mrs Margaret Navel. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u242	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Resignation from the rules on profiling unemployment aid is, hopefully, a step in the right direction: individualisation of aid addressed to these people. Profiling and division into groups did not produce positive results, which clearly shows that district labour offices should approach the unemployed in a much more tailored way to the needs of specific people. Hence my questions. Is the Ministry planning to take further action in this direction? Can we expect a thorough reform of the system of helping unemployed people who will be based on modern instruments and proven methods? In addition, I would like to know if the draft law on the labour market, which we have not yet seen, has a chance to be proceded in this term of office of the Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u243	Thank you. Mr Antoni Duda. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u244	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'd like to ask you a question like that. Did profiling helping unemployed people by county labour offices meet the expectations of applicants for this idea a few years ago, and did it improve the efficiency of the work of labour offices, improve the managed help of unemployed people, support the unemployed and employers in a real way? How is it assessed by today's ministry? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u245	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u246	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My question concerns the practical implementation of very good plans. Individualisation of the aid scheme for entering the labour market is a wise thing, for people with disabilities it is a wonderful thing. What, though, is this thing supposed to look like in practice? Because the fact that we're gonna make these changes, this novel, that's for sure. How does it look today? Right now, it's like this... There's still some digression. Well, as we know, the level of employment of people with disabilities in Poland is so low that it is embarrassingly low. Although these people could work. Why do they benefit from pensions? Because they know there's no place to work for them. How does it look today? About every three months, such a disabled person is invited to talk to him and inform him that there is no job for him. Work offices work well, but they don't have any instruments to - I don't say force - encourage employers to accept these workers. I keep talking about people with disabilities. This thing has to change. However, I ask you to answer the question of how this individualisation plan, which actually already exists, will help in a situation where we still do not have jobs for these people, although they could work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u247	Thank you. Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u248	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Let's be honest. Work offices should be removed. I know, ladies and gentlemen, that sometimes you're afraid of such bold decisions, bold solutions, but that's the truth. We as Kukiz.15 often take an example from abroad, where we see such solutions, e.g. in Slovakia, where it works. These measures which we are pumping at this point, or else I would not call it, in the labour offices, should be transferred to the municipalities, the ILOS, where they are closest to the people, the closest to the beneficiaries, and they should not be maintained by some dying office that costs us... Work offices alone are 4 billion a year. We have unemployment below 5%, so why keep something like that? It is best to reform, but not in the same way as before. So what if we're putting up with profiling, fulfilling the court's judgment? Employment offices should be removed and these funds transferred to municipalities. And I would ask you to take this into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u249	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I invite the Secretary of State to the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Minister Stanisław Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u250	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I thank you for this discussion, although it actually covered a little bit more in terms of the functioning of the labour market at all, and mostly of the labour offices. I think it would be worthwhile for those who are very critical of the work offices to visit them, to learn about their work, how they work, what instruments they have today, which can apply to both employers and job seekers and the unemployed. Labour offices do not create jobs. Jobs are created by entrepreneurs. Work offices give instruments to create jobs, but they're not from creating jobs. The amounts that you are giving here, as far as costs are concerned, about those funds that are intended, are absolutely taken from some completely unbelievable sources, because such amounts absolutely do not exist when it comes to issues related to active forms of combating unemployment. In 2019, we spend PLN 3200 million on active forms of combating unemployment with European funds, bearing in mind the good situation in the labour market, but also knowing that in the unemployment registers more than 50% These are people who are long-term unemployed, which is more than 12 months old. Profiling whether or not it was the Constitutional Tribunal's judgment would be criticised by us because it was the wrong solution. We particularly care about this now that the situation on the labour market, in terms of unemployment, is good but also varied. We have regions in the country where unemployment is still two-digit, which means that there must be more support and there must be other instruments that do not need to be used in big cities or where unemployment rates are low and profiling has made such action very impossible. Hence the change. It is also somewhat due to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, but also to the law that we have prepared in the new labour market law, this provision is in order to give greater opportunity and flexibility for the directors of labour offices to take action so that this assistance is directed to those who need such assistance. It is a longer period, among others. so there are these individual action plans to give these people more time, give them the opportunity to find an offer. And there are also offers that are addressed to entrepreneurs, i.e. funding their jobs if they employ unemployed people or there are other forms of support. There was also a question about issues relating to other countries. Public employment services exist in all European countries and in most European countries, public employment services are state institutions. Of course, here is the question whether we are also ready to have such a discussion in Poland concerning the submission of labour offices, because today labour offices are units of local governments and are not individuals that are subject to the Ministry. And it is also worth discussing whether the location of work offices is appropriate and desirable. On the issue of the employment of foreigners: today we have good solutions in terms of the possibility of hiring third-country nationals. We have this special path for six countries: Ukraine, Belarus, Russia, Moldova, Georgia and Armenia. In these cases, the easier path of employment can be used. We also have provisions that allow us to employ third-country workers through work permits. Today, this market is being welcomed. Therefore, this change that we are preparing today regarding profiling will significantly facilitate the functioning of labour offices and will remove unnecessary restrictions that have so far occurred. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u251	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u252	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill we're working on is the result of the Constitutional Court's judgment last year. The applicant shall make a number of cosmetic amendments to the provisions. The bill abolishes the obligation for the county labour office to establish a profile of assistance for every unemployed person. The expected effect of the amendment proposed in the draft law will be to shorten the period during which helping an unemployed person will start and to allow the labour office to apply any form of assistance specified in the Employment Promotion Act. It is assumed that the proposed changes will have a positive impact on the labour market. Changing the way in which unemployed people are handled by failing to establish a compulsory aid profile for every unemployed person will enable labour authorities to have a more flexible impact on the needs of the unemployed. As a result of the proposed change, the labour office will be able to start helping an unemployed person more quickly and activate a specific form of assistance adapted to the changing situation of the unemployed. The proposed change will also affect the assistance offered to employers by enabling work offices to use placements for any unemployed person, which means a better chance for employers to find suitable candidates for work. The proposal states that the changes made can only be achieved in the course of legislative action. The PSL Club will vote in favour of the proposed changes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u253	On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present a position on the draft law amending the employment promotion act and the labour market institutions included in print No 3363 and the report is in print No 3370. High Izbo! The need for amendments arises from a ruling of the Constitutional Court which stated that profiling of the unemployed is partly incompatible with the Constitution. According to the Court, this type of data collected about the unemployed in the employment offices when creating the profile cannot be regulated in the Regulation. This should be regulated by the law. The Constitutional Tribunal's judgment of 6 June 2018 meant that the Sejm had to amend, amend the law within 12 months. Unemployment profiling was introduced in 2014. It is recommended by the European Commission as a form of improving aid efficiency. The whole of Europe uses this method and Poland should also go with the spirit of time. However, the work offices criticized the assignment of forms of aid to individual profiles. It was proposed to maintain the profiles, but the decision on the use of forms of assistance was left to the client's advisor. It was simply proposed to evaluate the profiles. However, the proposed amendment to the Act repeals the provisions on profiling in its entirety, which is a kind of retreat to the standards and principles in force in the European Union. I hope that this simple abandonment of the form recommended by the European Commission to increase the effectiveness of aid will not cause problems with raising funds from the ESF. On the other hand, the issue of extending the period of employment opportunities for foreigners in a simplified procedure, i.e., is a very urgent and urgent matter. from Ukraine, Belarus, Russia, Armenia, Georgia, Moldova, without permission from 6 to 12 months. I very much regret that the amendment proposed by the PO-KO club did not find any understanding among the rulers. This change would significantly improve the employment opportunities of foreigners, which, with existing staff shortages in the economy, is of great importance in the context of maintaining economic growth. It would also be advisable, taking into account the actions of our neighbours, the Czech Republic or Germany, who encourage Ukrainian citizens to come and work. It's almost six months, and 2020 isn't far now. Therefore, the Parliamentary Club of the PO-KO will soon submit a draft amendment in this area. The amendment of the law was adopted by the committee under pressure of time. One amendment has been made without care as regards the principles of correct legislation. Despite these reservations, however, it requires support because it is not possible for unemployed people to benefit from various forms of aid.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u254	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Employment Promotion and Employment Market Institutions. This proposal provides for the abolition of the rules on profiling unemployment aid. As for the fact that this instrument does not pass the exam, it is hurtful and fruitless, we should have no doubt. The Constitutional Tribunal's judgment of 6 June 2018 refers to its unconstitutionality. The Ombudsman, the Chief Data Protection Officer, the Supreme Audit Chamber and many NGOs also issued negative opinions on its functioning. Above all, however, this tool was negatively assessed by the employees of the labour offices and by the unemployed themselves. According to the designers, on the basis of survey representatives carried out in 2016, almost half of the respondents considered that profiling did not fulfil their role. In turn, as the Minister said at the family committee meeting, on the basis of the discussions held, it can be concluded that today this figure would reach 80%. According to the current regulations, unemployed people are profiled into three groups: self-employed and active persons, those requiring intensive support and those farthest from the labour market, i.e. long-term unemployed. However, as practice has shown, such profiling is primarily an ineffective and very time-consuming task, the effects of which are opaque and discriminatory. It is not difficult to find on the Internet stories of people confirming these allegations, people who organized their own internship, but in order for the employment office to help them to do so, they had to register and register again because the first time they were qualified as long-term unemployed and this form of support did not belong to them. The third profile does not have the possibility to use the most important instruments of activation or referral to the job. The solutions contained in this amendment are to allow the unemployed to apply all forms of assistance provided for in the Act, without restrictions resulting from the aid profile established for them. Although, according to the proposed regulations, the extended catalogue of support offered today will decrease, activation benefits will disappear, the reimbursement of contributions for persons after 50 years of age and the commission of activation activities by the Marshals of the voivodships employment agencies, it is worth noting that the current interest in these tools has been limited and the changes will be used to make the available aid more flexible to meet the real needs. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of further proceding this amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u255	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy has submitted a report on the Government's draft law amending the Law on State aid to raise children and certain other laws, print No 3389. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies and the Committee on Infrastructure on the Government draft law amending the Road Transport Act and some other laws (prints Nos 3368 and 3395). I ask Mr Bogdan Rzońca to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u256	Dear Marshal, Membership! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies and the Committee on Infrastructure, I present a report on the Government's draft law amending the Road Transport Act. The mother's project is printing 3368 and the report is printing 3395. The two joint committees met on 24 April at a meeting where, I would like to make this very clear, former representatives of all stakeholders. The joint committees had a very transparent debate on an extremely important road transport project. In particular, it is about the carriage of passengers by taxi. The extensive discussions that took place during this debate finally led to the conclusions that were included in print No 3395. The meeting showed that all who were present at the committee meeting on 24 April had the opportunity to speak, had the opportunity to make their point, had the opportunity to present their arguments. I must say that all these voices were extremely constructive, and Minister Adamczyk thanked individual corporations, representatives of entrepreneurs for their presence and for taking care of the matter. Of course, the bill is very compromise, very transparent, meeting the expectations of the environment. She must take into account, on the one hand, entrepreneurs who conduct business activity in Poland and, on the other hand, customers who, of course, want to drive as cheaply as possible. Each of us uses taxis, so customers want fair, good transport services. Entrepreneurs, of course, want to earn money from these services. In my opinion, all these options have been reconciled. The important thing is that there's no unfair competition. This discussion, which took place at the meeting of the two joint committees, had exactly the same dimension: that there should be no unfair competition, that those who are engaged in business should pay taxes to be prepared to conduct this business and so-called. The intermediaries who appeared in the Act and who will play and play a very important role in the process of operating or ordering taxi transport courses were required to record these services. This is a rather serious change in the functioning of various transport entities, i.e. entrepreneurs. I think that all the records that were presented and subsequently adopted at the committee meeting could have been well described by law. On behalf of the Parliamentary Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Digitalisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies, I request that the attached draft be further examined and adopted and adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u257	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Sylwester Khrushch has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u258	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the draft law amending the Road Transport Act and certain other laws, the printing of Seym No. 3368. The aim of the project is to ensure fair and fair competition in the transport market and to introduce clear rules for the conduct of business related to passenger transport. Currently, in the transport market, there is an unequal competition between legal carriers and operators building their business and a competitive advantage in acting contrary to the rules of law, which often avoids paying taxes on their financial revenues. The aim of the project is to ensure fair and fair competition in the transport market and to introduce clear rules for the conduct of business related to passenger transport. Control activities carried out by the Road Transport Inspection in cooperation with other inspection services show that the services contracted by intermediaries are also carried out by drivers and traders who do not have the required licences to carry out commercial passenger transport. This has a negative impact on guaranteeing the maximum safety of a passenger using the services of such an entity. At the same time, unfair competition thus created not only reduces the financial revenues of businesses operating under the letter of law, but also hampers the development of the entire industry of legally operating carriers. The draft law amending the Road Transport Act and certain other laws aims to create a level playing field for persons brokering entities, to ensure the safety of passengers and to introduce mechanisms for effective control of the proper performance of business activities by intermediaries and entities cooperating with them. The proposal also provides for the relaxation and abolition of certain requirements necessary for the trader to obtain licences authorising him to carry out commercial passenger transport. We assume that the introduction of rules relating to the regulation of the activities of intermediaries when transporting persons will not affect the price of transport services carried out by licensed traders and will not restrict market access for intermediaries and their co-operating entities. The project assumes that all intermediaries for passenger transport will be required to obtain a licence to carry out road transport in the field of passenger transport. Such a solution aims to introduce a level playing field in this field of transport and to create a level playing field for all operators in this market. The amendments also provide for an obligation for the intermediary to commission only economic operators with an appropriate licence to carry out domestic road transport. On the other hand, the project involves simplifying the conditions for obtaining a taxi and passenger car license. These conditions for obtaining a licence will be limited only to the conduct of a registered business activity, the criminality of the entrepreneur, the possession of medical examinations and psychological judgements. Another facilitation is the abolition of training and exams from the topography of the village when applying for a taxi licence. The changes also include allowing the mobile application to be used as a means of replacing the taximeter and the fiscal cash register in road passenger transport. Finally, certain requirements for an entrepreneur to obtain a licence for road transport by passenger cars will be abolished, i.e. financial security and obligation for the trader to hold a certificate of professional competence. The project shall not be notified within the meaning of the provisions of the Council of Ministers Regulation. The project is compatible with European Union law. As my previous speaker, Mr President, said at yesterday's almost three-hour committee meeting, it was possible to sense the expectation that this law would be adopted. It was a strong debate, a lot of strong words were said. This bill is needed also for the taxi environment, and for other companies that want to offer us this kind of service. Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the club, I make three more amendments to this bill. In the opinion of our club, the solutions presented in the draft law are compromise and we are therefore in favour of this government proposal. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u259	Thank you. And please, Mr Cezary Grabarczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u260	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The draft law on the amendment of the Road Transport Act and some other legislation was intended to address some new phenomena that we are seeing in the economy. A group of entities providing a new type of transport services has emerged. Services that have been based on civilizational achievements, on digital technologies, are available in several corporations. It turns out that this way of doing business had previously not been recognised by lawmakers, but had become vulnerable to those who carried on business on the basis of existing standards. And this group, mainly about taxi corporations, considered that the conditions for doing business are not the same, because taxi companies, taxi drivers themselves are subject to numerous obligations arising from the Road Transport Act and from the regulations implementing this law. On the other hand, those who rely on digital applications have gained a large number of customers, especially young customers, for whom a smartphone, a notebook is not something difficult to master. The idea to create a more equal business environment was supposed to be good, but the realization is terrible. This is proved by yesterday's meeting of two committees: the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technology, during which, according to the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Rzońc, a number of interested parties came, representatives of one and the other group of operators carrying out transport activities, but when I personally submitted a proposal to lean on this project and, during the calm, substantive work of the subcommittee, resolve the doubts that were expressed yesterday by representatives of people who were keenly interested in the solutions contained in this law, the majority traditionally with their brutal force rejected this proposal. No wonder everyone left the committee meeting yesterday with a sense of unsatisfiedness, and some also with a sense of disappointment. They had a different date with the government, and today they believe that the government has deceived them. We are looking for solutions that will enable a level playing field. We are slightly correcting the bill: we are proposing two amendments. One of them will eliminate today's obligation to acknowledge the registration of a taxi. Such a stamp exists today on the basis of a regulation of the Minister of Infrastructure on the detailed activities of the authorities in matters relating to the entry into service of the vehicle. We want to eliminate this duty. At the same time, we suggest not to introduce an equivalent solution for those who will operate using the application. The second amendment will introduce a transitional provision that will allow people who use the application today to act and from the moment of entry into force [[♪ The bell ♪]] the law will not have this option until they have obtained a valid licence. We are making these two amendments. We're hoping they'll be backed up by these...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u261	Thank you, sir. Thank you very much. Please, you have a voice...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u262	...who generally brutally refuse to offer repairs. If they are not supported, we will not support this law either. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u263	I see. Mr President, time is up. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u264	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The draft law on amending the Road Transport Act and certain other laws contained in Seym printing no. 3368 - as pointed out by both the rapporteur and my previous speaker - is intended to address important problems. For more than two years, as was pointed out yesterday at the session of the Parliamentary Committee, work was underway on the project. The various committees discussed the various provisions and arrangements. Today, during the parliamentary debate, summing up a phase, waiting for the next stages of the legislative process, on behalf of the clubs, we express our positions and thoughts. We're wondering. We are leaning towards a positive approach to writing and to the objectives set out in this government project by the Minister. However, we still have questions. The rapporteur spoke of a consensus or perhaps a substitute for the joint arrangements adopted at the committee meeting. Nevertheless, I will return to a point. In my view, it would be right to slow down the pace adopted at this point and to give consent to the creation of a subcommittee where there are many issues that remain debatable, to clarify, to discuss many areas and to answer many questions. Nevertheless, the decision was taken by a majority. We are in a place from which we must look towards a further legislative process. I think that, during the next stages of the work, it will still be possible, Minister, to consider certain issues so that, as we say in the assumptions, we can give everyone equal opportunities to carry out these services, to create the same conditions so that we do not have to close this market for each group. With regard to the issue of creating certain records, I think we should also talk about this and go back to that. I think the Minister will address the issue of the introduction of a license for an entrepreneur and an area, and the use of extracts for every car. I'm not hiding that this is one of those demands that a group of taxi drivers were talking about yesterday. It is certainly important to introduce a certificate of non-punishment. We need to know... Yesterday we talked so much about safety, so this is a stage in the implementation of changes in this area. I think the Minister will also address these comments. You were referring to it yesterday, but it would confirm that, for example. it is still an important issue to clarify the scope of the intermediary's responsibilities. And one more moment and suggestions, it's a download request... It is a matter of considering a request, a remark concerning the collection of a bail or securing a vehicle against a penalty, because here, in these regulations, we also have a certain area where we have sanctions, where we have described steps and a way of reversing the licence, which I consider to be natural. It's a good thing it is. The punishments and their heights have also been specified. However, I think that all these issues should be considered at the next committee meeting. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The license amendment is?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u265	Thank you. Please, Mr Paweł Pudłowski, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u266	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I'd like to start with a story. Let me tell you how Modern has been working on a bill that deals with the regulation of this area. In 2016, we started with research into what are the best world models, where regulation of this market was successful, where, taking into account all businesses, stakeholders' aspirations, a measure was found that satisfied everyone. Then, when we had our concept of the bill, we invited all the participants in this market: and those who created applications, and those who drove for applications, and those who were representatives of trade unions taxis and taxi drivers, associations of taxi drivers. For three to four months, we talked about how to regulate this particular market. We have assumed that such regulation is necessary because it is not possible to allow some to deal with very specific requirements on one market and none at all on the other. We have also seen a large group of customers of this second market, especially young people who are used to using applications for which it is convenient, for which it is important that you know the price already before the start of the journey that you do not have to pay in cash, only you use all this with a credit card. There is a large group of recipients of these applications. We have managed to find a solution that is different from what we are discussing today. Our solution was to introduce a light license for this area of the application and leave basically no change in the taxi area. The bill we are discussing today is completely different. However, I would like to draw attention above all to the way in which this bill came to us. Two weeks ago, after 3.5 years of rule of law and justice, a bill appears. Originally it looked completely different. As my colleague Jerzy and I belong to the Parliamentary Small and Medium Entrepreneurship Group, we have organised a meeting. We also invited government representatives to this meeting, who came and discussed this earlier project. After a week, the project changed pretty much completely. Once again, we invited the representatives of the Ministry to the meeting of the parliamentary team. However, after the original confirmation of the arrival, the representatives did not arrive, which was not explained. Yesterday, as Minister Grabarczyk said, an application was made to appoint a subcommittee. Why is it so important to talk to all these stakeholders and people who are in this market? Because this, ladies and gentlemen, is their life. They make money through their work that allows them to support their families. And you must understand that at the end of this trial there is simply a human being. This man needs to be talked to. You can't force a certain regulation, even if it wasn't the worst one. You rejected the subcommittee project. It was clear that there was a great discouragement of taxi drivers, that after a short hearing you did not enter into a dialogue. Today we hear there are strikes on A2. We really need to talk. It's not enough to have a good solution. The management of change is that basically it needs to be explained well, the other side needs to be understood. You don't do that. That's what my criticism of working on this bill is about. You haven't accepted the motion for a subcommittee. We're running awful fast. For 3.5 years, you have done virtually nothing, because these consultations were very few, they have been carried out to a limited extent, and now, during one meeting, we want to have a meeting of two committees and probably tomorrow's vote. I really don't get it. After such a long motion, there was suddenly an acceleration and an attempt to close this topic as soon as possible. So there is a request, as Mr Kazimierz Kotowski of PSL just said, but to take into account that they are people, and to spend more time listening to them, to explain, to understand their fears, their fears, their conclusions. It just takes time to make a good law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u267	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u268	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It is difficult to disagree with my previous speaker, Mr Pudłowski. Well, for us, it may be only about 165 pages of the document, it is a law, but in fact, at the end of almost every rule that we make here, there are people who are affected by these laws, and often their lives depend on them. Because if someone works as a taxi driver, a vehicle or anything else, and it depends on keeping his family alive, it's very important. Ladies and gentlemen, I am extremely surprised that there was no agreement to a subcommittee. I thought it could be converted in as many as two weeks, we could finish it in May, but we should give these people a voice. On the other hand, in a situation where we begin our first reading on Wednesday, the second reading is on Thursday, and I suspect that the project will probably be voted out by tomorrow, I will say this: probably none of the drivers affected by this law are driving as fast as we are proceeding over this bill. And actually she looked different in the beginning. Perhaps there were other solutions. I am convinced that there was not enough consultation as it should have been, and you, and you, Minister, realize that this could have been done a little differently. I'm not saying the whole bill is bad, and I can't say it's all good either. She doesn't solve the problems that exist in the shipping market at the moment. Because we as Parliament of the Republic of Poland should ensure first and foremost equality, i.e. not disturbing regulations, equalizing all those carriers who operate on applications as well as traditional taxi drivers, may be able to bear the exams from the topography of the city, because it is a waste, adapt it all. But most importantly, ladies and gentlemen... 'Cause at some point, we split up into fans of apps, taxi drivers, and depending on who dragged who to the other side. Kind of like with teachers. That's not what this is about. We should make it easier for people to do business in general, but in all this The most important thing is a man, a citizen. If we give the opportunity to all economic operators, we will ensure equal competition, fair competition, without being able to bargain the price, cheating or anything else, the citizen will choose. We are to ensure that every entrepreneur works on a level playing field, and that this citizen, the person being transported, is safe. That's what we should focus on. And meanwhile, we're changing some bill, 165 pages, at an express rate, and at this point, I think, even the interested ones themselves don't really know what's going on. Besides, you're introducing a government bill, and within 24 hours, you're already making three amendments. I thank God that only three of us will be able to consider them today at the committee meeting. But we're also familiar with your bill designs, for which within 24 hours you made and after 50 autofixes, etc. Then it's not, ladies and gentlemen, it's done. Of course, as Kukiz15, we will take a very close look at these amendments and the whole project. But I repeat once again: the most important is the man, the citizen, the one who will benefit from all of this and then the entrepreneurs, the ones who will drive the vehicles concerned. That's it. Politics, who likes who, who doesn't like who, and most of all who drives what, is a third-rate matter if you can talk about it like that. Well, thank you, but that's not how it's done. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u269	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If anyone else wants to turn themselves in, please come in. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 1 minute. Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u270	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This is an important regulation because it concerns many social groups. It concerns, first of all, taxi drivers, drivers operating transports from the application, but in fact it also applies to people who drive and taxis, and as part of transportation from modern applications. I have a question: Why is there such a procedure? Why didn't we create a subcommittee to get to know all the pros and cons? Why didn't you do anything for three and a half years, and today at this extraordinary meeting of the Sejm, because it wasn't supposed to be, suddenly you want to make this bill in one day? What's the rush, Minister? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u271	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz July. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u272	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Let's be honest: taxi drivers are disappointed in this bill. I will reiterate this appeal, which Mr Truskolas had just said: Why is there no subcommittee in which all the doubts that have been raised, as has been said before, about traditional, taxi, or application supporters can be calmly explained? Because, as you know, for a long time, the taxi environments have been paying attention to the unfair practices of the application corporations operating the carriage of persons without a taxi license. In fact, do you even know what the statistics of people and traffic are for this application? I also ask why application drivers do not still apply to taxi drivers. I still don't think this proposal, which is right now, is [[♪ The bell ♪]] Enough, you have to keep working on it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u273	Thank you. I invite Mrs Agnieszka Pomaska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u274	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! First of all, I would like to stress that the way we proceed with this bill is outrageous. These rules, new rules, and regulation of the transport market, not only taxis, require in-depth analysis, and require an analysis of the situation in other countries so that we do not fall behind, because when it comes to the use of modern technologies, including taxi and other services, these regulations are not adapted to reality. But I wanted to ask you where the Ministry of Entrepreneurship is today, which has signed an agreement, a bizarre agreement with taxi drivers, in which among others. applications such as Number One, Bolt, Opti Taxi or Uber have been announced to be disabled. Does the Minister know at what stage it is to disable these applications and whether it is the government's answer? [[♪ The bell ♪]] For those taxi drivers' demands? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u275	Thank you. Mr Piotr Pyzik. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u276	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The granting of a licence by the State to a person performing a taxi service means, in a way, that the State accepts responsibility for the fact that the person who has been granted a licence meets certain requirements. By liberalising the rules in this area, we are aiming at a situation where this specific responsibility of the State may not be supported by the necessary certainty as to the qualification of the licensed person. In this situation, I have the following question: Does the Minister, the Ministry, provide for further amendments in the future to the rules that could be aimed at replacing the obligation to hold a licence with an insurance policy intended for commercial passenger transport? Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u277	Thank you. Mrs Margaret Navel. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u278	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft of this amendment is controversial and has attracted a lot of interest in recent times. Undoubtedly reconciling both sides of the conflict - taxi drivers and drivers using mobile applications - is very difficult because each of them has its own legitimate reasons. Is this project a consensus? Probably will not fully satisfy either side, but will it be a solution accepted by both parties? I have a question: Have there been discussions and consultations with the affected environments? I think it is important to know the positions on this project, because if we strongly oppose the solutions contained in the amended law, we may face further strikes and general dissatisfaction. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is the case for the Lawmaking in this House by the PiS. You couldn't even, you didn't bother to set up a subcommittee to solve this case. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u279	Thank you. Mr Józef Lassota.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u280	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is no secret that this product under the title... this draft amendment of the bill is the result of a protest by taxi drivers who have been demanding for many years to regulate, i.e. to eliminate this inequality in terms of conditions for both taxi drivers and drivers using applications. The inspection so far, particularly carried out by the road transport inspector, was completely ineffective, as we all know, and did not have any effect. The question is this: Are these new solutions really secure mechanisms that give this control? What Mr Grabarczyk has already said. The Act will enter into force on 1 January next year. If there are no transitional provisions, those who have benefited from it will continue to benefit under the same conditions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] under the same conditions, which is not according to the law. How is the Minister going to solve this problem? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u281	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Borowczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u282	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! Taxi drivers feel cheated by you. For 3 years we have been talking about taxis and applications in Poland. It was taxi drivers who caught illegal carriers using these applications, they organized it together with the Road Transport Inspection and stopped those who drove illegally in Poland. Today this bill will allow them to continue driving and there will again be a difference between taxi drivers and those using the app. We've worked on the Modern Project before. He was consulted, gained some acceptance of the environment. There's no project today. Who, to put it this way, pressed the button and made this bill work so fast? Could it be the ambassador who has already written to the Prime Minister? What was the government's reaction to your letter? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ambassador? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u283	Thank you. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u284	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I don't think that's good news, but Highway A2 is blocked, and that's the effect of your actions. You're the one who fooled those who left today by blocking the highway. Those who want to get to Warsaw will not have an easy road. Question: "Why didn't you want a dialogue?" Why didn't you want a substantive job to relieve the tension? That tension was evident yesterday in the courtroom at the committee meeting. One more question that concerns Poles. What's it like getting out of your knees? [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u285	Excuse me, sir, for a second. A great request to Mrs Pomaska. If you wanna talk to your friend, why don't you sit down and we won't have to all listen to this? [[I'm sorry. Yeah, about that, but I'm sorry.]] It's okay. Thank you very much. You're welcome. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm prolonging my time.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u286	Minister! What's it like getting out of your knees? The public found out that you were under the pressure of the ambassador. There's a chance you could talk about it today from that bleacher. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u287	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u288	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, we are at such a historic moment: people who travel on motorways in Poland and on German motorways, when they refuel, are surprised to discover that fuel on motorways is more expensive in Poland than in Germany, at petrol stations. This is undoubtedly the achievement of the Minister and the Government of Law and Justice, who directs Orlen. Minister, it is appropriate to do something about this, because it is, however, odd that drivers in Poland pay more on motorways for fuel than drivers in Germany. These are the things that you just have to do, Minister. We need to find out why this is happening. Is this another success of the rule of law and justice? But I have a question about the bill. For 2 years there has been a good modern project in the Seym, which regulated the market that sealed this market. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the question to the Minister is, why haven't you brought up this topic in two years? Why did you wait to introduce these solutions? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u289	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u290	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! A revision of the rules on the functioning of road transport compared to the rules in force is necessary and there is no doubt that none of us present in this Chamber. On the other hand, this proposal raises very serious concerns. Many stakeholders participated in the public consultation and most of the comments were not taken into account. Only some cases have been clarified and to a small extent some of these comments have been taken into account. I read in the press what reassured me today that because the Act enters into force on 1 January 2020 - as Minister Emilewicz said - the rules may be adopted in June. What's the rush? Why the government, instead of solving problems, prepare it to solve problems of Poles, [[♪ The bell ♪]] does it generate conflicts? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u291	Thank you. And I invite Mr Jack Tomczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u292	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I do not hide the fact that all of us are appalled by the pace and manner of proceeding over this bill. It is a law that affects too many Poles, too many economic operators in Poland to broadcast such a pace, especially since the quality of this legislation is not high, and the amendments that are tabled, and the changes made on an ongoing basis, I have the impression, are not fully thought out. Are you able to tell us today about the consequences of this bill? What effect will this have, for example, on the level of prices on the market? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u293	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Apel, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u294	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have a question because we know how corporations work or these companies, big Western companies that drain the Polish transport market. They operate so that part of the money is collected using the application directly into an account from outside Poland. Did the Ministry calculate what losses the Polish State has under CIT due to what it does, among others. Uber, handing over his income directly to a phone downloaded during the journey, directly to another country? And does the Ministry have any idea of bringing about a natural element, competition, that is, equal treatment, also tax treatment? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u295	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u296	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The question will be brief, but before I ask it, three more words. Minister! It seems to me that the way of proceding this law, as well as the rules which are contained in it, caused that once again certain environments in Poland are divided. Perhaps if we had spent more time, if there had been a subcommittee, if we had discussed this in the subcommittee, today there would have been no blockade of the A2 motorway and probably another act of dissatisfaction on the one hand or on the other. My question, on the other hand, is the following, Minister. Is the Ministry, or is the Government of Law and Justice planning to return to work on this law and implement further solutions, amendments or not, or is this the final one that you are talking about: this will be the case and nothing will change in the coming years? However, after the amendment of the law, will we return to this subject again, I do not know, in July, September, October? Please answer me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u297	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. And I invite the Minister of Infrastructure of Mr Andrzej Adamczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u298	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for the next debate on the bill, which regulates taxi transport in Poland. Thank you so much for the next vote. It seems that this debate was more substantive yesterday. My many years of parliamentary experience tells me that this is because of the basic charge that appeared today during the debate - that the bill is being proceded too quickly. Since there are no other charges, I take it this is a good bill. Anyway, yesterday we heard this at the meeting of the Joint Parliamentary Committees. In many circles, business environments, taxi-grouping environments, these provisions are a compromise, but a compromise that meets the expectations of the parties to this dispute - on the one hand, legally operating taxi drivers, and on the other hand unfair competition, which by means of mobile applications spoils the market, does not allow normal activities of taxi operators. Of course, not all companies using applications use and use these methods. In one of the last questions, the Member drew attention to applications of Western companies that drain the Polish market. Ladies and gentlemen! In Poland, Polish companies use applications that are more modern, more friendly... [[But that is not true, sir.]] Madam, I will not return to you again, so... Mr. Marshal, please don't argue. The honourable Member is hyperactively referring to my statements, so please, if that is possible, we should conduct normal polemics. I've listened patiently to you. I'm going to address you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u299	I support the Minister. Madame, if you have grounds for correction, I invite you, and now I would ask you to refrain from commenting.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u300	Thank you, Marshal. Well, we're assuming that on the one hand we have to eliminate the grey zone in taxi transport. In line with the intention set out in one of the Members' statements: there is an economic area, there are companies, there are families of those who run these companies and there is a man at the end. That's how we see it. We see in all of this a man popularly, commonly called a taxi driver, who conducts business activities. It's an economic activity like any other. It requires respect, but it also requires state support when there is a grey zone that effectively prevents taxi drivers from performing their services in a normal way. When you talk about how this market was ruined by the gray area, I'll remind you that you had the opportunity to change it and you didn't do anything about it. Because the gray area using mobile apps had functioned much earlier. You had the opportunity to just fix it, you had the opportunity to put in place mechanisms to eliminate the grey zone. You didn't do it. I don't know why. I'm not gonna put a straight line either. and I will not explicitly call it what you call our actions, the aim of which is to introduce rules governing this market in a relatively short period of time. To you, ladies and gentlemen complaining that it is too fast to proceed on this project, let me remind you that I believe that you have been the masters of this House in my opinion, pushing in a really express way draft laws, and much more volume, in the terms of 2007 and 2011 and 2015. On the other hand, parliamentarians are the hosts of the project, so the question arises: Why such a method of action? In my opinion... I believe that it is probably the most optimal in relation to the expectations of the environment and I personally thank the Parliamentary Committee on Infrastructure, and I thank the High House for this procedure. I believe that the economic environment expects us to take action to repair this sick market in taxi services with a disease of unfair competition. Now I would like to address Mr Cesare Grabarczyk, Minister. Mr President, I really lacked the consequences of your statement. On the one hand, you're talking about an embarrassing bill made in an embarrassing manner. You're talking about feeling unsatisfied, feeling dissatisfied, and you're proposing amendments only to a small extent to correct this bill. And this statement is very valuable to me: amendments that very little correct this bill. I take this as a very high assessment of this project, and thank you for that. I would like to refer here to one of the amendments. I do not know its contents in detail, but as regards the issue of stamp in registration, it is regulated by regulation, not by law. I would like to point out that if we were to accept the thinking of you, Mr President, and people who are similarly thinking about this stamp, we would have this situation that every morning on the access roads to work, on the bus lanes we would have queues of those who have a taxi license. Because what did we do in the bill? We have made it possible to obtain a taxi license in accordance with three conditions. And these three conditions would be met by those who would not necessarily do services, but would want to get to work quickly. Always such solutions, on the one hand would seem very interesting, interesting, have little interesting implications. As regards transitional provisions for users of applications - here I look at Mr Borowczak... Gentlemen, you are from one political formation, talk and agree whether you want a longer transition period for those who are driving against the rules today, or whether you want to eliminate them naturally. I think that if you agree on something between yourselves, it will be the answer to the question, because you know, Mr President, the denial of your proposal is in the amendment that you are talking about. [[Corrigendum.]] Of course you have the right to present... The Member also has the right to be corrected, that is beyond any discussion, and there will probably be such a correction. I'm expecting him, and I'm not avoiding a discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u301	Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa,
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u302	Mr. Marshal will decide, which is why I said he'd probably be here, but you're the Marshal who decides. I am not afraid of discussion, Minister, I have no problem with that. There's no problem. It's been said we're shutting down the market. No, we're not closing the market, ladies and gentlemen, and there's no closing the market. We are talking about the market making the same demands for all its participants. These are the three conditions that we keep repeating. The safety of passengers is a certificate of non-criminality or a declaration of non-criminality, a medical examination confirming the possibility of the safe operation of services such as taxi services and entry in the register of traders, nothing else. And the market is open, but there is no way that the market can be spoiled by unfair competition. We are introducing an app for those taxi drivers who will only want to drive and only on the basis of the tool that is the application. We're introducing an application that will replace the taxi and the cash register. I completely did not understand Mrs Navel's statement, Mrs Navel. The question was so deeply veiled that I really did not understand it and I will not answer the honourable Member. And when I listened to one of the messengers' questions, I smiled widely, and so I wondered whether you had read in haste whether it was a compilation of various press releases from different days. Before you ask this question, you may be very... [[She asked if they were...]] Excuse me, I'm already referring to questions asked later by one of your messengers. Well, in that question it seemed to me that Minister Emilewicz had signed an agreement with taxi drivers, and it turned out to me that the questioning Member had read several different informations, from different days, statements from different backgrounds and submitted it into one thing and it turned out that it was all signed by Minister Emilewicz. I am not authorized to represent Minister Emilewicz's position, but I must clearly deny such, not the name of such false information. No one in the government has ever offered to close any mobile apps so that it is clear, there was no such proposal and such proposals did not appear anywhere. All the more so, they were not the subject of an agreement which would be countersigned by Minister Jadwiga Emilewicz. It's just not true, it's not true. What are the security mechanisms, Mr Józef Lassota asked. First of all, the inspections carried out by the Road Transport Inspection. In the presence of representatives of the inspection and the chief inspector of the Road Transport Inspection, I have a big request: let us not offend inspectors who work hard on Polish roads. This request is addressed to all countries - here present and absent. Inspectors perform heavy, ungrateful and very dangerous service. I know how many checks there were on illegal taxis, I know what the effects of these checks are, and you can't say they're pathetic or none. [[Did someone say that?]] Yeah, of course you did, that's the wording in this room. As for the blockade... [[It's because of them...]] ...sir, it ended at about an hour. 15.10, about 80 taxis blocked highway A2, taxis came back to the city, to Warsaw. We talked yesterday about the fact that everyone has the right to express their dissatisfaction. I hope that when you ask your marshal for a correction, you will not forget to say that yesterday's taxi environments highly appreciated this project. One of the representatives of the taxi environments said clearly and clearly: this is a project whose records are connected by a hassled, one can say, parties or parties which, on the one hand, honestly, on the other hand did not comply with Polish law to carry out taxi services. Mr Masłowski asked when the amendment was being amended. Mr President, it is that there is no perfect law, every legal environment, every legal environment is subject to change, but no one is proposing laws that would apply in the coming months, and would ensure that they will change from the Parliament's stand. We are aware of technological progress, we are aware of how the taxi market will change, among others. because of the introduction, it is ensured by one of the manufacturers of world-wide, autonomous cars, cars without drivers, which are already tested as those which will carry out taxi services. If not in five years' time, it must be assumed that in 10 years' time, but probably as a result of technological progress changes in the bill [[♪ The bell ♪]] You'll need a taxi driver. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you again for the discussion, for the amendments tabled. I hope that we will be able to address the proposed amendments when we know in detail their content at the meeting of the Parliament's Committee on Infrastructure...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u303	Thank you very much...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u304	...while considering the amendments tabled during the second reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u305	...Mr. Minister. Thank you very much. Mrs Pomaska, as corrected. Come on in. [[I didn't mention a Member by name.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u306	You replaced me with the Minister, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u307	I have already explained this many times: it is not necessary to mention by name, but the Member is to refer to...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u308	But I'll be specific.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u309	...an imprecisely understood passage.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u310	I'll be specific. Two things I wanted to address and ask you to re-examine, because I think I've been misunderstood or I misunderstood the Minister. I wanted to ask you, first of all, specifically, which taxi companies do you think have the most modern applications, because you didn't clarify that. The second point concerns the agreement I was talking about. Minister, I have an agreement before me between the representatives of the taxi industry under the chairmanship of the NSZZ President Rafał Piotr Jurk and the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology of 8 April 2019. This agreement is signed by itself, among others. by Minister Emilevich. The third point of this agreement states that the Council of Ministers will move on 9 April, among others. the issue of temporary disabling of applications for ordering journeys, e.g. such as Uber, Opti Taxi, Bolt, My, Number One, Eko Taxi until [[♪ The bell ♪]] regulation of their functioning by a new law. What happened to this point and is it being implemented? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u311	Thank you very much. And Mr Cezary Grabarczyk as corrected. [[You too, Marshal. Yes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u312	Thank you, Marshal. The Minister was not very focused on our questions. I've never once used the adjectives you assigned me. I told you that she was imperfect and that it was possible to work on her in such a way as to create a law that would satisfy all stakeholders. Because that's our job to respond to social demand, and that's what it was. And we didn't get an answer. You didn't take this opportunity to lie or confirm: yes, I consulted with the ambassador. We're still waiting for that answer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u313	Thank you. And Mr Jerzy Borowczak, as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u314	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! I am grateful to the State Road Transport Inspection, because in Gdańsk it works wonderfully and illegal carriers have repeatedly managed to stop and punish. Now for the second thing. The Minister's talking about consulting. I just spoke to Mr. Tadeusz Stasi, who is the head of the nationwide taxi association. They say that this bill to them is unacceptable, unacceptable. Then I don't know who you consulted. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Marshal, may I have the correction mode?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u315	Mr Masłowski, as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u316	Thank you very much. Minister! I probably haven't been fully understood. Of course in the process of technological change, technological progress, autonomous cars... I'm guessing the bill will be amended. I was more concerned with whether, through some dissatisfaction of professional groups, one or the other... In this regard, before the elections, before the end of this term, do you plan, on the basis of the dissatisfaction of social groups, professional groups, to amend the law. That's what I'm talking about. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Me too.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u317	And briefly, Mrs Navel. Here you go, corrigendum. The Minister didn't understand. [[No. Can I do it too?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u318	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The simplest question I asked you was were there any consultations? If the Minister didn't remember that, I'm surprised. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u319	And that's the exact question. Minister Adamczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u320	Thank you very much. I reply to the honourable Member. Yeah, there's been a public consultation. [[When? Where?]] If you find time and look at the bill... The project is accompanied by a justification, there is a print number... The draft shall be accompanied by a justification and shall be accompanied by information on the public consultation. There are more than 20 entities, as I recall - 26 entities with whom these consultations have been conducted. Some of these entities responded with comments to this draft law. This project was consulted, and it wasn't short. He was consulted very widely and very deeply. Mr. Speaker! I don't know if you were at the Parliamentary Committee meeting last night... I am very sorry, because one of the many years, one can say, activists of the taxi environment, Mr Stasiów - from the very beginning - is very negative about this bill. But also yesterday, the words of other representatives of the environment sounded. I remember Mr Biedrzycki's statement, this is a long-standing taxi driver from Warsaw, who made a completely different reference to this bill. He said it was a good project, expected, needed. In any case, I understood that statement. The presidents of the associations of carriers' environments, transporters, also welcomed this project. And the person you mentioned spoke to us. We were referred to in an official document submitted at the meeting of this committee, indicating that we brought to the Sejm a project which was prepared by external organisations, economic operators, which is an obvious lie and has nothing to do with the truth, because if it were, it would be a crime. So that often in this debate and in these parliamentary debates, which unfortunately also concern economic space, there are false, unconfirmed arguments sometimes sucked out of a dirty finger. And that's what happened yesterday. Mr. Speaker! I address Mr Grabarczyk. It is true, after all, that it is public knowledge that I have met with Ambassador Mosbacher, as with many ambassadors of other countries, and many times. During such meetings, I talk about matters with which ambassadors come. They come on matters important to their countries, important to the companies that operate, which come from their countries, which represent here at diplomatic missions. I think that in many cases: the ambassador of Japan, the ambassador of China, the ambassador of the United States, the ambassador of the United Kingdom, the ambassador of France, the ambassador of Italy, there is concern about their companies that operate on the Polish market, but in none of these cases mentioned and not mentioned, because these meetings are really a lot, there was no such consequence that under any pressure, pressure or appeal we would prepare laws. Just so you're clear. And I ask that we put a dot here, but we do not generate another problem not only in the parliamentary debate, but also in the media, because it really makes no sense and it is very shallow. You know that very well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u321	Thank you very much. Please, the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Bogdan Rzońc.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u322	Dear Marshal, Minister! Dear Members, There was a very good debate today and there was a very good debate yesterday. You have heard the representatives of all the corporations who wanted to speak and have sometimes said quite drastic to each other about themselves. On the other hand, we have avoided conflict and this law avoids conflict. You know it well, she's really compromise. Everyone's already admitting it, and that's what the amendments are best about. I've already had the opportunity to see and these are absolutely cosmetic amendments, so you didn't bring anything either. Good, 'cause it's a good bill. You're welcome tonight at the hour. 18.30, thank you for yesterday's debate and today's debate, for the next meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u323	And I, too, thank you, Member. [[Did you invite the cabbies?]] The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technology and to the Committee on Infrastructure in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 min. 35 hrs. 16 min 42]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government draft law amending the Law on the shaping of the agricultural system and certain other laws (prints Nos 3298 and 3384). I ask Mr Robert Telus to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u324	Dear Marshal, Minister! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Seym! I have the great honour on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development to present a report on the work on the government draft law amending the law on the shaping of the agricultural system and certain other laws, print No. 3384. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The committee's meetings were held on three dates - this was the first reading - because there was a big discussion: 2 April, 10 April and 11 April, and the bill was sent to the Sejm on 21 March. The first reading and discussion of this law took place on 2 April. Members were speaking, but also guests, and perhaps, above all, guests, because our committee is so conducted that, above all, guests have the floor, later, and at the end there are Members. [[Applause]] [[Thanks to the president.]] That's how you run the committee. 10 April further we held a discussion and on 11 April took place the so-called. reading from paragraph to paragraph. There were also allegations here, there were controversy, concerns were raised, but, above all, the social side, praises on this law. I think it's very important. On April 11th, I had the pleasure of holding a committee meeting, and I must say, Mr. Marshal, that it ran very quickly, efficiently. [[After you've been late.]] The big interesting thing is, no one was against this bill. It is important that, during the vote, all the Members present in the Chamber voted in favour of this law. So you can see that this bill is very much needed. Some Members who may not have fully agreed or had some controversial questions or concerns just left the room. These Members wanted to break the quorum, but it didn't work out, the quorum was still there and we were still sitting on this bill. The effect was, as I have already told you, that the committee unanimously asks the High House to adopt this law. But to the point. What's the change in this bill? This is very important and these discussions that were held at the committee's meeting allow me to say so. First of all, at the request of the social party, which was also at the committee meeting, which made this request and supported this idea to free up to 1 ha of this law... I mean, not really slow down, because it's possible to sell, just like farmers asked, it's a possibility to buy, that's what those who want to buy land asked for, but there's still an initial buy for KOWR. Some criticize it, Mr. Marshal and the High Sejm, some say it should be completely freed, but we believe that the earth is above average value, I would say, sacred value and we must defend it. That's why we left this entry in the bill regarding the original purchase. It means that if KOWR notices that someone wants to speculate, e.g. share your larger plot of 100 ha per 100 parcels of 1 ha, then KOWR has the right of first purchase, can redeem and not allow anyone to speculate, as has so far been the coalition of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, and that these speculators were the land of many... We know there were many. So that on the one hand, at the request of farmers and those who want to buy parcels, we increase this plot to 1 ha, but on the other hand, we leave this right of first purchase so that there is no speculation. Another thing that we are also changing in this law, which is very important - and I will say again that the social side has insisted very strongly on this change, as well as welcomes this change - is to reduce from 10 years the duration of farming, purchased land to 5 years. It is also a matter of making it easier not to run a farm for 10 years. We know that if someone buys this land, they become a farmer, that's enough for him to run the farm for five years. And that's what's important. And what else is interesting? Until now, if it was up to 10 years old, but someone wanted to sell it before, they had to have the court's approval. At this point we also mitigate, we do not need to have the court's consent, but just have the approval of the Director-General of KOWR. The point is to make it easier here, because there are different situations in life, someone wants to sell this land, because for example. He's gone bankrupt. To help this farmer, we allow it to be easier to sell. Next thing you know, it's very important, but there's a lot of controversy here, Mr. Marshal and the High Sejm, it's a matter of mortgage on KOWR's assets. And here I want to tell everyone who listens to this, also Members of the Civic Platform, who, as I said, have left and did not want to hear it in the committee, that Article. 22 is already in force in this... [[There's a transmission.]] ...laws, right now we have it, even if we didn't change it. Art. 22 already allows the establishment of a mortgage on KOWR's assets. So much doesn't change around here... [[Changed by you.]] ...because this article is already in force. We're just expanding it a little bit, but it's not just some drastic thing you're saying here, and it's helpful to make it, for example. create a holding company that we believe must be created, because farmers expect it too, dear country. If we're against it, if we're doing something that we want to break the quorum, we're leaving, i.e. I'm talking about Members of the Civic Platform who wanted to break the quorum and left this committee, that's it. only action to the detriment of farmers. They do not respond to farmers' demands, do not respond to farmers' requests and do not want to act for Polish agriculture. Anyway, ladies and gentlemen, I've been in the Seym for 12 years, and I know something about this, the activities of the Civic Platform... [[Let's get to the point, sir.]] ...especially about Polish agriculture and how they, Members here, approach it. [[Room voice: Robert, give it a rest.]] [[Voice from the hall: For the bill, for the bill.]] I am talking about the bill, Member. It is interesting that I am talking about the bill and the sale of the land, that for you, my fellow states, you have allowed speculators to trade the land. What about us? And we make sure it doesn't just... [[Game in the O.R.]] How much? How much? [[How many actions were there?]] That is precisely the case for the bill, Member. That's what it's all about, that we care about Polish soil, that's why... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] And it's not just Law and Justice. Law and Justice, too, but other groups, which are on the agricultural committee, also believe that this must be done, Commissioner. That is why the government has presented this law and that is why we support this law. And that is why, my dear fellow Member, as rapporteur, I say what was on the committee, and such votes were cast at committee meetings. The next thing we do, we introduce into this bill, it's a donation to the children. I mean, it's also been so far that if someone bought the land, the father bought the land and wanted to hand it over to the child, he couldn't for 10 years. Here we introduce this law that it can. This is also another demand of farmers, which we allow for this... And, of course, without the court's permission, he can transfer this land. Ladies and gentlemen! Once again, these voices were also on the committee, that this is a bill expected by farmers, also expected by those who want to settle in the villages who want to buy land. It's very good that this bill is being introduced, because she's gonna allow it on the one hand... [[Member Paulin Hennig-Kloska: 2 years...]] ...to be among the Poles, among the farmers, among the people who want to buy this land, but on the other hand, it kind of eases the matter or releases it: up to 1 ha. We know that for many years these so-called ones. Poles in Poland were many... [[Voice from the room: Two.]] ...who bought land that prepared the land for foreigners to come to Poland and take over the land. We believe, Law and Justice and this government believes that the Polish land is our property, it is our important, very important holiness. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] This is where the Member may scream, and we will continue to think so. You don't like it. I know you'd want this... [[I didn't say anything.]] But I'm not talking to you, Member. ...the land to sell to developers, and we think that no, we will not do it, we believe that the Polish land is to be in Polish hands, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Polish land is to be in the hands of Polish farmers, to be cultivated, because it is food security. You don't understand it, and I know it, because we often discuss it. [[Voice from the room: Is it intellectual cleansing?]] There's a lot of talk about military security, road safety, but very rarely you... Besides, when you were in charge, you weren't talking about food safety at all. We believe it is our national responsibility to ensure food security. And in order to ensure food security, you have to have your land, you have to have the land to be in Polish hands, there is a need for the land to be cultivated by Polish farmers, because it gives us safety and it guarantees food security, so that we do not have to eat what they bring to us from abroad, questionable quality, but that we can grow on our own land, on Polish soil, and that we are safe. And, ladies and gentlemen, you don't have to look far: all countries care about it, all governments care about it, apart from this government, which has been in Poland for 8 years, the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party... [[Oh, come on.]] ...because you allowed this land to focus. So, Mr. Marshal, the High Sejm, as you can see, there is a group of Members in this Chamber who are not in the hands of this bill. For what reason, I don't know. [[How embarrassing are you, Robert?]] You may know that, but we believe that this law is good for Polish agriculture. Such voices were also cast at the meeting of the committee on the social side, so that we could adopt this law as soon as possible, because the Polish farmer is waiting for this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u325	Thank you, sir. [[Robert, shame. Shame, it's not Television Trwam, it's the Seym.]] The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. You have the floor of Mr Jerzy Małecki, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u326	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present a statement concerning the draft law amending the Law on the shaping of the agricultural system and certain other laws, print No. 3298. The purpose of the proposed legislation is to amend and clarify the regulations introduced by the Law of 14 April 2016 on the suspension of the sale of the property of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury and on the amendment of certain laws, as well as the introduction of new solutions. In 2016, we announced that we would definitely return to this law after examining how this law would work, and at the moment it was time that this project had been submitted. These changes are primarily a response to the requests raised, among others. by agricultural environments, local government units, as well as the National Agricultural Support Centre. These demands focus mainly on the provisions concerning the grounds for obtaining the approval of the Director-General of KOWR for the disposal of agricultural property or the problem of the need to obtain such consent when disposing of real estate to certain members of the family. It is also noted that the rules currently prevent the acquisition of agricultural land by state or local legal persons for public purposes. In the current legal state of agricultural real estate, public universities may also not acquire. In view of the above, it is proposed to reduce the existing restrictions on the marketing of agricultural real estate, in particular in the administrative areas of cities and with an area of up to 1 ha. It is left, as the rapporteur said, the right of first purchase by the NOWR in the event of speculation of land trafficking. According to the above, it is proposed that property with an area of up to 1 ha need not be disposed of through limited tenders, characterised by a high degree of complexity and labour intensity in preparation. The aim of the projector is to introduce regulations that improve the organisation of tenders and provide for a review procedure for both the publication of tenders and the possibility of challenging tender operations. It is also proposed that leases and leases of the Treasury's real estate are concluded only for a limited period of time, which is expected to be a more favourable solution for the parties in terms of termination dates and consequently for their long-term plans. The developer states that such regulation will better safeguard the interests of the State Treasury in terms of the management of the property and the rent charged for it. It should be assessed that these solutions will have a positive impact on the marketing of agricultural property, as the number of operators entitled to acquire agricultural land will increase. The identification of the documents to be submitted in order to obtain the approval of the Director-General of KOWR or how to demonstrate that agricultural property cannot be sold to an individual farmer will increase the transparency of the procedures. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In view of the above, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice welcomes the draft Law on the amendment of the Law on the formation of the agricultural system and certain other laws and advocates that it be directed towards further proceeding over it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u327	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Kazimierz Plocke, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u328	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Accepted on 12 March this year. by the Council of Ministers, the draft amendment to the agricultural system law is an unsuccessful attempt to repair the PiS's own errors. The changes are ad hoc and strengthen official authority in the agricultural land management process. Unfortunately, agricultural land was not released, for example, with an area of up to 1 ha, in cities without the approval of officials. This transaction will be burdened with an initial purchase - it is not good - even though the Minister of Agriculture announced liberalisation of agricultural land with an area of up to 1 ha within the administrative limits of cities. What happened when the minister changed his mind? 1 ha is not enough to make a complete investment, e.g. build a housing estate with infrastructure. Was it lack of courage or did the minister flunk the fear of foreigners? The concept of excessive land concentration is still not defined, which we read as a big mistake. The officials will decide whether or not this is the case. We are very concerned about reducing the minimum area of agricultural production centres to 50 hectares. This solution will destroy the commodity farms to which lease agreements are concluded or which have refused to exclude 30% of the land. With the proposed limit of 50 ha, the agricultural environment will aim to maximise the cut-off of agricultural production centres from the ground, and agricultural production centres with buildings and a large production base will become stumps without land. This will lead to the collapse of the best cargo holdings that have developed on land leased from the state. This propertyation - let's not be afraid of that word - will lead to a reduction in the efficiency and competitiveness of Polish agricultural production. It's a clean jump to lease land, often for almost 30 years. In the shadow of the amendment of the Act on the shaping of the agricultural system, the Ministry of Agriculture wants to make a specific leap into the cash register. It's about the money coming from the sale and lease of the property of the Agricultural Property Resource of the State Treasury. To this end, by the way, the PiS government intends to amend the article. 22 Act on the Management of Agricultural Real Estate of the State Treasury. This change will allow the government to use state land as a mortgage of up to PLN 1 billion. This is an extremely unfavourable solution for farmers, family farms and the Treasury. In theory, the new rules are to be used for commitments, e.g. for intervention buying apples. To this day it has not been completed, and farmers have not received their money. However, uncontrolled commitment by officials can also be used e.g. in rescuing bankrupt companies of the State Treasury, which are now under control by KOWR, the creation of holding companies or the financing of the Innovation and Agriculture Development Fund, which is to be created at the expense of Polish farmers. Who's gonna pay off those mortgages in the future? Or is it about allowing the selected banks to take over the agricultural property of the State Treasury? Are we facing a return to state farms? The amendment shall not unlock the marketing of agricultural land in rural areas. Acquisition of agricultural land by people who intend to, for example, green farming will continue to be difficult. We are concerned that the agricultural support centre receives new control tasks for individual farms that have acquired land on the private market. That's not in history yet. These rules will increase bureaucracy and the country's far-reaching interference in the marketing of agricultural land and civil liberties. The National Agricultural Support Centre will, contrary to its name, become another control body in the area of agriculture. That's absurd. Indeed, one who has proposed such laws is entitled to the Nobel Prize. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of my club, I would like to make appropriate amendments to the bill, which will certainly improve it if they are adopted. If they are not accepted, of course we will have to decide how we will behave in the course of the vote. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u329	Thank you very much, sir. I invite you to the speaker of Mr Jarosław Sachaika from the Kukiz club15, who will present his position on behalf of this club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u330	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present my position on the government's draft law amending the agricultural system law and certain other laws, prints no. 3298 and 3384. In general terms, the amendments proposed in the draft law amending the law on the shaping of the agricultural system should be assessed positively. They meet the right expectations of farmers. They will contribute to the considerable flexibility and opening up of the agricultural real estate market. This draft law seeks to reconcile two trends. The first concerns an issue that is understandable from the point of view of the requirements of a dynamically developing free market economy, i.e. the flexibility of trade in agricultural real estate. The second trend is to prevent negative developments such as scattered buildings or the trading of immovable property for speculative purposes, leading to a mess and unjustified increase in their prices. Here is a note: this scope of security was assigned to other ministries, Ministry of Investment and Development. Once again we are dealing with the biggest ball at the foot of Polish lawmaking, with Polish resort in two editions. The first one is spychology - another minister will do it, the second one - I can't do anything, another minister is responsible for it. It sounds like a kindergarten conversation: ma'am, it's not me, it's Kasia and Zbyszek. I would like to briefly discuss the issue of securing rural areas from buying up to 1 ha of land and creating scattered buildings, i.e. from creating chaos in the Polish countryside and destroying family farming. During the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, we heard that the Ministry of Agriculture does not see the problem because the Ministry of Investment and Development is preparing a new law on spatial planning in which the construction conditions will be abolished. In return, new local legislation is envisaged: a general plan, a construction plan and urban standards. This is where we get to the point of the problem. The Minister of Investment and Development ensures that three years are available for the preparation of the general plans of the municipalities. Subsequent acts will be created in the following years. I would like to point out that the bill has not yet been passed. Three more years are foreseen after its adoption to produce the first of the three necessary documents of local law. Dear Minister, High Izbo! The adoption of an act on which we are currently proceeding, in this form, will cause the destruction of agricultural production space. Farmers have been expecting for years that politicians, when adopting a law on the protection of agricultural production space, will secure the food sovereignty of Poland. After all, the village is a place for agricultural production. The possibility of continuing the activity and development of agricultural family farms should be guaranteed. PSL promised earlier, then promised PiS. So? Nothing. Polish farmers are still being harassed by people who come to the village, imagining it in an idyllic way. Turns out the village is hard work from dawn to late night, and it doesn't smell like violets. I have also prepared four amendments. The most important of them eliminates the possibility for KOWR to establish mortgages on the property of the State Treasury, protecting the public land from mismanagement and easy takeover, and defending officials from the temptations of easy spending of public money and not participating. The bill needs a few more, maybe even a dozen changes. I hope that, during the work of the Agriculture Committee, my amendments will be accepted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u331	Thank you. Mr Marek Sawicki will present his position on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club - the Union of European Democrats. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u332	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, (PL) Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, People are divided into those who grow and are wise, and those who grow only. Listen carefully to your reporting and then try to qualify for one of these categories. Mr President, you have said so and PiS has repeatedly used the concept of speculators. Speculators - I remember that it was very fashionable still in the days of Gomelka, and the Polish People's Republic as something they could not cope with, they were always guilty of speculators. [[And a stone.]] How many speculators in three years of government, four years of government have you put in jail? I'm asking you, how many speculators have you caught dealing unfairly in the land? Were they those West Pomeranian speculators, those farmers you accused in 2015 when I was still a minister when they were arrested for bidding? I gave them a guarantee that they'd be freed. And after three years of trial, they were completely exonerated. You are happy to use the term "possession." Allegedly under PO-PSL rule, the land was bought by poles. I know one pole. This is, among other things. Deputy Chief of Solidarity, RI Mr. Kosmal. He bought land for his children who didn't grow it, so it's a pole. Did you account for that? Because when he applied to the Agricultural Property Agency for land purchase, he claimed that they were growing it. Today everyone knows they're not farmers. So if you're looking for poles, if you're looking for speculators, you'll really look around you. Dreams, paranoia about the grocery store. Last year 150 agri-food processing companies were put up for sale and offered to sell their property. Did you buy one company? Did you make one offer like that? APPOL was sold to the Chinese. Is it the National Polish Holding or will the Chinese national holding company be built in Poland? [[Voice from the room: Pini.]] Pini? Not to mention the famous accused here many times Elewarra. [[17 million.]] About a company that hasn't recorded losses in eight years. She had a positive financial score. Last year, he's got 17 million losses. 17 million losses and Altrans's subsidiary approximately 19. For God's sake, where's the money? Where's your great management? [[Silver.]] Minister, how many companies supervised by your minister have a positive financial result for last year? I'm asking... [[Voice from the hall: Horses.]] ...do you know, ladies and gentlemen, that 10. We adopted a law amending the National Property Resources Act. And Mr Telus alleged that someone wanted to sell land to developers. That's why this national resource was created. It is there that the indebted companies of the State Treasury managed by the losers from PiS will be able to save their financial result from the sale of land, agricultural land, for the developer, for construction. It's gonna be $2 million short on the balance sheet, so here you go, 100 ha we're selling. You're talking about farm support and family support. To this day you are implementing a program of the Polish People's Party concerning additional payments to the first 30 cows reduced to 20, additional payments to the first 30 fattenings reduced to 20, additional payments to sheep, to goats, additional payments to the first 30 hectares, to 50 hectares for the young farmer. You didn't create your own program, you didn't prepare it, but you announced a manure payment of 500 PLN to one cow and to one fattening pig, provided that the breeding is on deep litter, on manure, so it will be an addition to manure production, not meat or milk. How many farms will return to production from shallow barn or shallow barn, from grating farming? And Mr Sachajko pointed out that this village should be the place to produce. Yes, but I do not know if you know that the Ministry of the Environment has prepared the so-called. Another distance bill. And depending on the quantity [[♪ The bell ♪]] large units will be able to or will not develop our production. This is the truth about today's agriculture managed in the PiS state. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u333	Thank you very much, sir. As we can see from the above, man always learns in every place. How many things we've learned about agriculture. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u334	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This bill is not only insufficient, but also far behind. Because when we really did it three years ago or more than three years ago in the original sound, it was about most of the problems that we have here, among others. Today they are being moved, we have already said, Mr President. When I personally made various amendments, among others. concerning the release of agricultural land within the administrative boundaries of cities, when I said that it would not be possible to freely rotate land, which is the subject of enforcement or bankruptcy proceedings, that freely individual family members would not be able to inherit, take over the land after themselves, it was clear from the politicians of Law and Justice that my amendments were an assassination on the Polish land, which I wanted to push into the hands of foreign investors. And meanwhile, these foreign investors have been given by you for the past three years quite lightly by permission to purchase agricultural land, not only within the administrative boundaries of cities, but also beyond them. The truth is, as I said, these changes you are making are not only late but insufficient. It's a good thing you're releasing agricultural land within the administrative boundaries of cities. It was some sick record that this bill even covered it. It's wrong that there's a right of first purchase. It's a good thing you're releasing agricultural land of less than 1 ha. Let me remind you that even this amendment, which entered into 300 a, was introduced by the Senate after our complaints and conclusions and reflections by you. This 1 ha is also insufficient. I think that the 5 ha that I originally proposed would be such a compromise between the village used by farmers and the village used for other purposes. You extend the catalogue of family members who can freely inherit, their siblings, parents, or stepdaughters, but there is still a concubine or concubine missing. Unfortunately, life is different, and this possibility of inheritance will still not be as it should be. I am delighted that you are abolishing the right to acquire or abolish the right to buy shares and shares in capital companies that own agricultural property with a total area of less than 5 ha. I have already denied this right to buy before, speaking of the fact that it may give rise to far-reaching abuse, and it was not sufficient records, even too far-reaching, interfering with property rights, whether those who own agricultural property, or those who own shares in commercial law companies. Of course, there are still too many of these absurdities concerning restrictions on doing business in the countryside, as well as their own farms. We will see how this law implemented will work in practice, but as I know life, still to our parliamentary offices will write people who have problems with the sale of property under difficult conditions. In general, this law was implemented three years ago by many family misfortunes, and for those individual misfortunes which met people whose businesses, farms fell and they could not dispose of property in very difficult, difficult conditions, for various reasons, whether it was because the farm was simply too big or because they could not find the buyer - it is you who are personally responsible, all the Members of the Law and Justice who pushed this project and then voted for it in such a different form. The Modern Club will see how it will proceed at a later stage in the process of working on this law. As I said, directionally these are good changes, these are changes that will help many farmers, many families living in the countryside, and we are ready to support them, but we will see how [[♪ The bell ♪]] You will respond to the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u335	Thank you, Member. Let's get to the questions. Would any of your messengers and your fellow Members still want to be on the list? I can't see. That's why I'm shutting her down. And I invite you to ask Mrs Iwona Krawczyk, the Civic Platform - the Civic Coalition. Time - 1 minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u336	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the impression that the farmer will not benefit from this bill. He's gonna use the developer. These are again provisions that strengthen the institutions and authorities of the State. You set them up, you passed them, and now you're changing them. There's always another bottom. And just as it's in every bill, it's in this one. You're supposed to be releasing the land, but the National Agricultural Support Center is back in the first place. The farmer won't have to ask for permission to sell the plot to one ha. Nevertheless, I would like to ask: What will it look like in reality? I mean, what's the limit on these sales? Five times a year, he can sell five shares for five years? What this sale looks like in rural areas, and what it looks like in administrative areas [[♪ The bell ♪]] Cities? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u337	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u338	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Panacea to solve many problems of fragmented Polish agriculture is farmers' cooperativeism - he repeats after us, after the Platform club, for 3 years the slogan of Prime Minister Morawiecki has been proclaimed. And he's right. Prime Minister, you're right, keep saying that. We've made 15 amendments. I want to see the law and justice club vote on the agriculture committee. You have led the country to such a situation that the land is currently not an adequate, attractive pledge for banks. This is your policy. But the most important thing for today is something completely different. In 2019 we have a drought, yes, in 2019 we have a new drought, irreversible processes, 8 Minister, do you have any solutions, namely melioration, irrigation, rainy, or projects, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The ones we were talking about? Question: "How much will it cost?" Who knows? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u339	Thank you. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u340	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Agricultural resources in the form of land under cultivation are a strategic resource requiring not only legal protection but also an important programme to improve soil quality, which is happening thanks to Minister Ardanowski. I have a question: Is a system solution already under consideration in connection with the work on this project, which should apply after the end of the protective period blocking the loss of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury in April 2021? Are the plans aimed at securing the stock from selling permanently in such a way that its development takes place only in different forms of lease, including, of course, a long-term lease? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u341	Thank you. Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u342	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The agricultural system law makes it difficult for farmers to trade their land. Religious unions and churches are exempted from this regime. I do not know if you know that the State of PiS is being tried to amend the National Property Resources Act, which also excludes agricultural land that belonged to KZN, located within the administrative boundaries of cities, i.e. they can buy, sell, trade, earn on agricultural land, and Polish farmers are still more difficult. I wanted to ask you if these two laws, these two projects are compatible because I have big doubts. And I would like to say to the rapporteur that we are probably living in two parallel realities, because the propaganda of success that you have practiced here is worthy of the Polish People's Republic. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u343	Thank you very much, Member. The next question will be asked by Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u344	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The purpose of this law is to state that it is intended to promote rural development. I have been looking for aspects of which there is no doubt that the issue of land management in urban areas is one of such issues, and here we have to point out the far-reaching concern of the legislator, who also treats towns of 1,2000. inhabitants like voivodship cities, e.g. enlarged by huge agricultural areas of Opole, or a city such as Warsaw. Turns out it doesn't make up for any system. On the one hand, you are inducing the rotation of the land, and on the other hand you are saying that over the spatial order, because this is about looking for these speculators, the KOWR will be watching. I wanted to tell the rapporteur that as far as speculation is concerned, it is important to ensure that real estate is not divided in thoughtlessness. We can ensure that this does not happen at this point in time to disperse buildings and prepare land for this type of situation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So there is no system here, there is administration and lack of awareness of what problems are, processes of development of central centres in rural areas.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u345	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u346	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask the rapporteur two simple questions. The first point exactly I presented during the discussion of the committee's position on the destruction of agricultural production space by a dispersed building, which this law will allow for many years. The second question is precisely what the rapporteur said during his speech. He said that Polish land was to be in Polish hands, because this is about food security. He said that Law and Justice will ensure that the land is cultivated by Polish farmers. However, at the same time a gate is made to enable the purchase of thousands, and certainly hundreds of hectares by non-farmers, because if the land or farms that are auctioned are allowed to be bought by non-farmers, it means that it is very easy to bring the farm into the state of auction and takeover by the non-farmer. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u347	Thank you. Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u348	Minister! I have a brief question as to whether the revised agricultural system law will create positive solutions in the following situation: A person who is not or has never been a farmer has received less than a hectare of agricultural land in decline. On the basis of the existing provisions, this parcel could not be sold to a farmer in order to enlarge the holding in the same village where the farmer lives and works, because, as the notary claims, a 10-year period would be required here, which would be impossible to carry out because we are talking about an elderly person. Does the legislation currently under investigation by the Sejm therefore give the chance that such an agricultural parcel, whose area does not exceed 1 ha, can be sold to the farmer in order to enlarge the holding? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u349	Thank you. The next question will be asked by Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u350	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The entry into force of these provisions could have a number of economic and social consequences, including negative ones. I wanted to ask if this project has received a positive opinion from social, agricultural organisations, including the agricultural chambers. Were there any consultations with these organisations and their demands taken into account? Possible environmental impacts should also be considered. In some cities in Poland, the percentage of agricultural property is quite high, and the entry into force of the proposed rules to exclude these land from the scope of the Act on the shaping of the agricultural system could have negative consequences for the environment in these cities. Has the government considered the possibility of such a danger? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u351	Thank you. I invite Mrs Dorota Niedziela, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u352	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Jumping into money and bullshit are two words that describe this amendment to us. The rewrite is a bubble bubble, the third bubble in total. Minister! My question concerns Art. 22, which you're protecting. (PL) Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, We left the room because the 18 amendments were posted at the last minute, and you didn't even know them, and you were two hours late. We all waited two hours on the committee to get you here. What is it? Art. 22... KOWR incurs a debt of PLN 1 billion, taking the State land which is in the lease of one of the Members. You're growing this land, not knowing that KOWR and his officials have taken such a debt under this land. You want to buy this land, and here's 1 billion in debt. Who can decide here? KOWR officials. The Minister, of course, is not telling the truth, because there was indeed a record here, but it was so weak legally that two directors of KOWR were fired for not wanting to sign such a security, because it was such a weak security. It's a bank heist and extortion of state money. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u353	Thank you. Mr Leszek Galemba, Law and Justice, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u354	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The agricultural land is intended to serve farmers and agricultural production. And this is... [[It's a pledge.]] ...a task for our government. That's what we did in the election campaign. The agricultural land is not to be expensive, it is to be available to farmers at real prices. It can't be exaggerated. And that's why... [[But prices are rising.]] ...it's a restriction. This Law of 2016 was published in the Official Journal She let us stop the price increase that the non-farmers had brought in. Farmers are happy. I'm a farmer myself. I'm listening here to the fact that agricultural land can't be pawned under bank credit. I'm the proof myself that there's no problem getting credit to buy land. It still applies, but there can't be virtual prices. Question to the rapporteur: Are agricultural land in cities also subject to this law? I have a question for the Minister: Is it true that the 2016 Act. [[♪ The bell ♪]] reduced speculation in agricultural land trading? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u355	Thank you. Mr Mieczysław Mizga, Law and Justice, another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u356	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The law from 3 years ago did not particularly adhere to south-eastern Poland, four voivodships on the structure of very fragmented farms. And it's great that we're updating this bill. Anyway, when I hear voices here, club speeches, nobody says it's a bad amendment, although it might be possible to do more and reach deeper within it, while everyone says we're going in the right direction towards mitigation. And you need to enjoy it, especially Podkarpacie and South-East Poland will enjoy it, because the land with an area of up to 30 and only could be rotated, with an area of 32 and no more, divided over 30 and could not and was total blockage of land trading, and with us there were many unused, free parcels. And that's what's gonna happen. [[♪ The bell ♪]] development of buildings, and well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u357	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u358	Oh, one more question. If someone buys one ha, can they buy another one? [[In town, yeah.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u359	Mr Leszek Korzeniowski, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u360	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for you. Today I was at a conference at the Ministry of Agriculture, where he attended, among others. I want you to show Minister Ardanowski and I want the president of KOWR to show up. No one showed up, and there were people there who, among others, were waiting. They are very interested in this law, the shape of this law, which you have already distorted to the last degree. Are you afraid to talk to people? What you presented today, Mr Reporter, is at the height of hypocrisy. We've known each other for years. You're 12 years old in this Seym. I'm 18, but I've never seen a rapporteur like you before. And the second brief case, as far as the KOWR's original buy-in is concerned. KOWR bought one of the companies in Widawa. Please note the economic results there. Maybe somebody could finally lean over it at the Ministry, [[♪ The bell ♪]] because there is a fourth board or a fifth suit of presidents, and the financial result is that you will have to take into account that they are definitely indebted to the Treasury on this land. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u361	Thank you. Mr Kazimierz Plocke, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u362	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Why are you deliberately destroying tenants' holdings? Two things. Firstly, you proposed in the bill an increase in the penalty for the uncontractual use of the State Treasury land from 5 times the rent to 30 times the rent. What does that tell you? What are the rules for this? Is there any expertise, research? This is ridiculous. And the second issue, which is actually, can be said to be the liquidation of tenants' holdings, because if we are talking about agricultural production centres up to 50 hectares, what is the housing base, with the farm base, what about the whole infrastructure, when the farm is 350 or 400 hectares? Does that mean there's going to be a few smaller ones from this one? After all, we are going in the opposite direction than the whole of Europe. In Europe, you massage the land, you integrate the farms, we go into fragmentation. After all, we know very well that the agrarian situation is very weak. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why are you doing this? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u363	Thank you. Ms Elżbieta Radziszewska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u364	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is amazing that even PiS MEPs in this room say that it is good that there is this amendment, because suddenly it turns out that in the east, in the south of Poland farmers were waiting for this amendment. So where were you when you passed it, that bill you're updating today? You've brought a herd of goats into the corral, into the hut, and now you're taking one out because there's another amendment. And everyone's supposed to be glad you brought another goat out. [[Applause]] This is outrageous! As we said, let the children inherit the land, you were deaf, and now you are letting the benefactors because the election is going. Minister! How much land was in the hands of the foreigners that you were so scared of when you passed this bill over three years ago, and then how much did it end up in your rule? Interesting. And it will be interesting to see how much of this land, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which is in KOWR's resources, today is in the hands of children, grandchildren, neighbors, activists and members of the PiS. The new government will check all this out, and it won't be easy for you to explain yourself. You'll see, nothing is given once and for all, because people in the country are talking about it and they see you. They see you and they see what you're doing and how much land has now come into your hands under the pretext of the need for a bill to... [[But they can't see you.]] ...do not sell land to foreigners. What you're doing is an agricultural scandal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u365	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Polak, Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u366	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Both farmers and agricultural trade unions and agricultural chambers have consulted this draft law with great interest and attention, as we read in the explanatory memorandum, since the end of 2017. We have established, when we adopted this law in 2016, that after the period of its operation the existing legal status will be analysed and some amendments will probably be envisaged. In view of the fact that a number of these amendments are very much in line with the expectations of the institutions or entities mentioned by me, I would like to ask you one thing, about this provision, which says that the Director of KOWR will be able to lease the land at his disposal, a large area of more than 300 hectares, and by way of tender to farmers. Is the sharpening, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which concerns these farmers - before they have to work in agriculture for 10 years, they have to run over 100 hectare farms - is not it too big? Shouldn't that be reduced by at least half? It's about these requirements. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u367	Thank you. The next question will be asked by Marek Sawicki, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u368	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I want to repeat the question again: how many speculators have you identified and how many have you taken away the land? [[Applause]] How many poles? How many poles have you taken away the land? How many have you punished for this? [[Zero.]] How much land did you sell to foreigners? Is it true that in 2015 - 412 ha, in 2016 - 576 ha, in 2017 - 1069 ha? We don't know how much in 2018, but I think the Minister knows. You protect this land so much that you sell more than those you accused of selling. One more question to the Minister, because unfortunately even today, farmers, sadders, call and ask. Who invented the company Eskimos? In what mode was she chosen? Why hasn't this company paid many farmers to this day? Who invented this? Why doesn't Minister Ardanowski want to speak publicly on this matter? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[You have to listen, you have to be in the O.R. The Minister took the floor on this.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u369	Thank you. Ms Agnieszka Pomaska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u370	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This law or amendment of the law and the original law is a classic example of how easy it is to spoil and how difficult to fix. It's still not fixed. It's supposed to be cheaper, and it's more expensive. There was supposed to be less land sold to foreigners, and there's more. It's not easy, but it's harder to build a house on your own. Therefore, the question. I don't know who's gonna answer. I see they're all buried. I think they're ashamed. Question: "How much more land is sold to foreigners today compared to 2015?" How much more expensive is land and agricultural land compared to 2015 prices? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u371	Thank you. Mr Jacek Tomczak, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u372	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! PiS first blocked the rotation of agricultural land, and now he's trying to open it slightly. It works a little like socialism: it creates problems first and then tries to solve them itself. [[Applause]] [[You don't understand.]] I think, unfortunately, we have another piece of shit, another underdeveloped bill. I have a question: How much has she been consulted with agricultural environments? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u373	Thank you. Mr Michał Cieślak, Law and Justice will ask a final question in this point. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u374	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen! The draft amendment of the Act on the shaping of the agricultural system introduces many expected changes. These expectations have recently been presented by the agricultural community, but not only in the forum during parliamentary work, but also addressed to the Ministry. Among other things, an area of up to 1 ha of agricultural land is released from the law, which allows farmers to sell small parcels and city dwellers to buy small parcels to settle or buy small parcels, land on which buildings not used by farmers are located. Such buildings may be used by city dwellers for their purposes, recreational or residential purposes. The draft law excludes agricultural land from the registering borders of cities, which is very important because agricultural land within the administrative limits of cities will be able to be converted more quickly, allocated to local government investments, [[♪ The bell ♪]] also developers, housing, which in the future will lower housing prices. So that these are expectations... Minister, are these changes in the scope of the revision expected by the various environments? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u375	This question and earlier questions will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr Rafał Romanowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u376	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dozens of questions that have already been answered many times. Act amending the Law on the shaping of the agricultural system and certain other laws. You know very well what the genesis of the law is, why it was introduced in April 2016, why after 3 years it is updated. I would like to assure Mr Tomczak and Mrs Navel... Also in the first Parliamentary printing, which was presented to the High House, is a report from the public consultation on this law, in which he participated, among others. agricultural authorities, i.e. agricultural chambers, but also trade union organisations, which, of course, welcomed the proposal submitted to the High House. It's to dispel any kind of doubt. But let's get back to the point. The issue of speculation, pillars and such things has been raised several times. Minister! You remember perfectly well that the value of 1 ha of agricultural land by 2015 increased year to year by more than 20%. On a yearly basis, the price of 1 ha of agricultural land sold from the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury increased by 20%. At the moment these prices are rising by up to 3%. [[Because there's a blocked sale.]] Mr. Speaker! Sales aren't blocked. The sale of land, the marketing of agricultural land takes place at about the same level. E.g. This was served by the Law which was introduced in 2016. Do you remember, ladies and gentlemen, that from 2008 until the beginning of 2016 over 800,000 were sold from the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury. ha agricultural land? It is also a reason for this bill to be amended. Do you remember that at the entry into the European Union, the protection of the 1920 law on the sale of land to foreigners was established only for 12 years? And when you left the government in November 2015, you did nothing to protect these land from their sale to foreigners. [[And how much was sold?]] Let's remember one basic thing, because the state doesn't distinguish between basic concepts. The High Chamber, especially on this side of the plenary room, does not understand the basic concept. What does the term aliens mean at the moment? According to this security, which was only established for 12 years... It is precisely by the end of this protection right, which has operated only for 12 years, that foreigners are only citizens of countries outside the European Union, that foreigners are no longer citizens of the European Union. But as we reach even to the recently published information provided by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, we will find data on the land area covered by permits under the Law of 1920 on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners: 2014 - 1036 ha, 2015 - 460 ha, 2016. - quite significant decrease, 80 ha, 2017 - 23 ha, 2018 - 25 ha. That's the real thing. We're talking about two different, very important concepts. [[I took the data from the same report.]] You Members choose from this law only and only what you wish for, and you do not read what the social side has just raised regarding this law. [[You're gonna check the M.E.A. report.]] We discussed this bill. Nobody threatens large farms, so-called. farms even leased from the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! You're the ones who set up the so-called. excluding 30% of leased land from the stock. It was your recipe. You couldn't consummate that recipe. Unfortunately, it is up to us to consummate this right. Therefore, among others. a concept such as agricultural production centres is created. Because if the lease were to run out, it would be those farmers who use land without agreement - this year it could be up to 100,000. ha - it's the land that needs to be cultivated, they can't be left behind. [[And how does this bill help?]] Therefore, centres such as agricultural production centres can be established. In the draft law it was 300 ha, according to the amendment of the applicants these centres were reduced to 50 ha. But it's about the centers from 50 ha, not to 50 ha, it's a big difference. From 50 ha, you should keep that in mind. Let's just not mislead the High House. The concept of this famous mortgage, which Mrs Sunday raises, is repeated several times. Mrs. Member! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! It's nothing more than consummating existing laws. You no longer notice that so far it was possible to establish a mortgage on the assets of the National Agricultural Support Centre, and at the moment a top limit was established on the stock, which was raised, among others. by the Minister of Finance up to PLN 1 billion. But that does not mean that so far it has been possible to use this, that immediately, on a hurrah, the Director-General of the National Agricultural Support Centre will use this type of instrument. At least the upper limit has been set - up to PLN 1 billion, so don't worry. The issue of planning rural space is a very important element that has repeatedly emerged during the discussion. As I informed the high committee and the High House, this law is also compatible with the National Property Resources Act. All parliamentary clubs at first reading assessed this project positively. That's the compatibility. [[351 amendments.]] But also this basic law on the shaping of the agricultural system is not a law that regulates space in rural areas. As I said: this is the government of the Republic of Poland, this is not a farm itself. It's supposed to be compatible rules. That is why I mentioned at the committee meeting those provisions which the Minister of Infrastructure and Development intends to introduce so that such things do not appear either. Distance Act - another barrier. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! I cordially invite you to the district of Mławski, to the district of Ciechanowski, to the district of Żuromiński, to the district of Płonski, to the district of Działdowskie in Warmińsko-Mazurskie voivodeship. I invite you to meet with these residents to discuss with them how they treat this type of legislation as a huge barrier to it, maybe not for the development of agriculture, but for the basic development of these villages. These inhabitants should also be remembered. Such a proposal was submitted by the Minister of Environment, because you worked on the so-called. The odor bill for many years, and it didn't work out. This is perhaps a simple method, but a method that should be effective for all inhabitants of just rural areas. Ladies and gentlemen! As much as possible, this law introduced in 2016 blocked speculative increases in agricultural land prices. As I mentioned earlier, the prices of these land could grow by more than 20% per year. At the moment this increase is at a maximum of 3% and this is a very important part of this change. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! These changes are very expected, not only in these areas so-called. South-eastern Poland, southern Poland or eastern Poland, but also in other areas of our country. It is precisely the release of land to 1 ha without the approval of the National Agricultural Support Centre, and when leaving the original... As I go on, I will answer the questions as to whether there is a limit to the purchase of such properties. There is no such limit either in rural areas or in the city's games, but it should be remembered that in the city's games, which was repeated at committee meetings, there are about 1 million hectares of agricultural land - in the sounds of administrative cities in Poland. Thus, for land between 0,3 and 0,999 ha, the right of pre-emption by the National Agricultural Support Centre should be preserved so that the National Agricultural Support Centre can observe the so-called. speculative trends, for example. that provision has been preserved. I would like to assure Mrs Masłowska that as much as possible the heir will be able to dispose of such property up to 1 ha for the enlargement of the farm. As I repeat once again, this change is expected, this change by many environments is expected, that these changes will come in. They will have a positive impact on the development of rural areas, but they will also create mechanisms that will allow us to look to the future, as Mr Sawicki says. This has been raised many times during the discussion in the committee. The government must have mechanisms to participate in the so-called. the market and this law through the possibilities that have been established here and which have been clarified, closed, also such opportunities will give. That's why, among other things. The National Agricultural Support Centre and the National Agricultural Support Centre have been set up to participate in such mechanisms. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Can I correct it?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u377	Wait, I have conclusions. Sit still and wait. The questions were also addressed to the rapporteur of the committee of Robert Telus. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u378	Dear Marshal! Minister! Minister at the President's Office! Membership! High Izbo! There have been many questions, many accusations, and I most regret that Members who boast that they are Members of 18 years or more do not discuss arguments, but try to offend Members from other groups. I don't think that personal impact should occur, and I think everyone should... [[Don't attack, you won't be attacked.]] ...have a culture. We can argue, we can speak substantively about political or other matters, but I think that insulting someone is already beneath parliamentary culture... [[But now you've offended me, Robert.]] To Members who are trying to do this, I simply make such an appeal to respect one another, because I think that's the point. [[Start with you.]] Civic Platform Club, Citizen Dinner - not good that up to 1 ha. Ladies and gentlemen, if you would listen to the farmers, you would know that it is good that up to 1 ha, because farmers expect it, and the Member who says that 1 ha in the city's games is so little, I wish 1 ha of land, for example. in Wroclaw or Warsaw. I think that if he says it is not enough that the Member says it is not enough, he is wrong because I think it is a big area, and I think it is a big value. It's a moneyjump. Darlings, you can say that, you can throw such slogans, but sometimes remember 8 years of government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, when the Agricultural Market Agency was ordered every year - ordered, dear country - how much land to sell, how much to go to the budget... [[For farmers to expand their farms.]] ...how much money he's supposed to bring to the budget because it was important to bury the budget hole in Polish soil. That must be remembered, ladies and gentlemen, because we know that it was done, and today we're talking about a bank heist, ladies and gentlemen... Jumping to the money when we, as a government, as Poland care about our Polish land, is it a jump to the money? [[He's got the agency mixed up.]] Member of the Polish People's Party and the European Union of Democrats - it was very clear that it had started. It was very clear that the truth moved, that what I said hurt, and why did it hurt? Mr President, I think you know this case because there have been many cases in Poland, but I will tell you one thing because you know it well. You may recall one of the very prominent activists of the Polish People's Party, with a very green card, even being the Deputy Prime Minister of his time... [[Mr President, you will straighten yourself out on this platform.]] As a former marshal, I think you should also take care of culture. I'm going back to that example. One of the prominent activists of the Polish People's Party for many years in Poland, in the Łódź voivodeship used land, over 500 hectares of state land, without paying taxes, without paying rent, without agreement, taking subsidies for it. It is estimated that 6 million subsidies. Ladies and gentlemen, only because he had a green card. What did we do? When the Government of Law and Justice took responsibility for Poland, he became such speculators... [[What specifics? Who?]] ...he took the land and gave it to the farmers, because that's what it's all about, the Polish farmers who use it. [[Applause]] You're also saying that we don't buy companies. Ladies and gentlemen, we show, we give many examples in Poland, that we are buying back the property that you have sold for many years. The fact that we have such a situation in Polish agriculture at the moment... [[A round for Kasprowy.]] ...that Polish farmer is a company servant in many places, because companies impose prices, whose fault is it? That the previous governments sold Polish assets that sold Polish factories that sold Polish cold stores? That right now the companies are running the entire food chain, not the Polish farmer? Who did this? [[Voice from the hall: AWS.]] Answer for yourselves, ladies and gentlemen. Who led to the sale of Polish factories over the years? And we, ladies and gentlemen, even though you will scream, even though you will try to insult yourself, because this is working out beautifully, then, ladies and gentlemen, we will. We'll buy it back. That's why we want to create a food holding company. [[Voice from the room: We'll nationalize.]] That's why we know it's important that farmers and not just, I'm going to use that word again, speculators or big companies in the entire food chain. And you wanted to sell everything because you didn't make it. [[AWS.]] Second thing. You said Elewarr and Altransa. Mr President, an ideal example to repeat it again. You said what you called it, about the losers in the PiS. Ladies and gentlemen, the Altrans case is a very interesting thing. The state company - PLN 30 million on VAT speculation, on the VAT mafia. The state company was stealing from the Polish state. To who? Who was in charge? We know who was in charge back then. We know who did it. At the moment, the D.A.'s office is investigating it. Mr President, thank you very much for this example, because Altrans is a typical example of how you robbed Poland. How the psychics from PSL robbed Poland. Check it out, 30 million on the VAT carousel. Check it out. [[You asked for culture five minutes ago.]] I'm not insulting anyone. I'm not insulting anyone, I'm talking about those who robbed Poland. I'm being very honest, and I know what I'm saying right now. But I don't use names, and Members insulted, and you were doing very well. [[You're just lying, not insulting.]] Question... It's still a general matter. The same Members, from the same group, some come out and say that these are bad changes, that this law is bad, that it must be rejected. Members come out of the same club and say, "Okay, we've been offering it for a long time." Why are you bringing her in so late? It's like an anecdote. Two Members from the Civic Platform are leaving recently when we announced five laws and justice, five Kaczyńskis, and at the same conference one says that it is hypocritical that we stole ideas that this is buying voters. And the second Member of the Civic Platform at the same conference says: they stole our ideas. So decide whether this bill is good or bad, because I don't really understand whether it's good or bad. Questions. In the same statement, Mrs Po-KO says that this is a propaganda worthy of the Polish People's Republic and speaks about religious relationships and the Church that we allow. This is propaganda from the times of the Polish People's Republic, because then they attacked the Church. You're going back to the attacks on the Church. [[I don't think you understand.]] It really is worthy of the propaganda of the Polish People's Republic and I think the voters will sum it up. Member of the Civic Platform and the Civic Committee, speaking of this law, asks for drought. Did you take care of the drought? Did you take care of the meliorations? Did you take care of the cooperative? I answer, yes. Last year we paid PLN 1.5 billion when there was drought. This year we paid 700 million for drought. Two billion 250 were paid out. As far as melioration is concerned, there was 16 million PLN for your governments, we raised and for melioration there is 40 million PLN. As far as cooperatives are concerned, the bill is prepared and we will process it because we know that this is very important. Mrs Niedziela again: heist on money. No, I'm not commenting. There's no point. [[Thank you.]] [[Voice from the room: Sure, why?]] Are agricultural land, Mr Kalemba, in urban areas? Thank you for this question, because I forgot to mention it in the report. The Minister spoke a little bit about it. Of course, we have made amendments in the committee so that the agricultural land that is in the city is also left in this law. Do not withdraw them completely, as was the proposal, but leave them. Why? Because we want control of what's going on in the cities. In order to have control not to be bought by someone unwanted, a speculator - perhaps you would say that I often say: a speculator... [[Centralization's like a PRL.]] ...anyone who doesn't want to speculate on land in the city. That's why we left it. Because we're responsible. Because we are responsible for Poland. Because we are responsible for Polish agriculture. Because we are responsible for Polish land, because we know how important it is. That's why we leave it in this bill, a little bit on different terms, because there is no obligation to work anymore, i.e. cultivation of this land for 5 years, the management of this land for 5 years. A little bit on different terms, but we leave it to control Polish soil, because it is, as I said, very important. Mr Korzeniowski - it also hurt, and that's why he tried to insult. I'm not gonna comment either, 'cause that's not the point. [[Don't be ridiculous.]] The Member who spoke about goats shows that she knows about agriculture, because it is on the subject, says people in the countryside can see us. Yeah, people in the country are looking at us. We're happy about it, we're doing everything we can to get people in the country to see us, so people in the country are watching us, because we know that people in the country are waiting for this bill. And we know that people in the country are also important as all Polish citizens, not as before, that people in the country have been forgotten. [[Applause]] We will make sure that people in the countryside look at us so that people in the countryside judge us. And we know how they judge us because I go to meetings. And we know how people judge us in the country, and we'll take care of it. Because we know that Polish agriculture is an important branch of the Polish economy. And we will take care of Polish agriculture and care for Polish agriculture. 'Cause like I used to... I have often recalled these words of the Prime Minister from this speaker, but they are probably the most important words that speak about Polish agriculture. Prime Minister Morawiecki said from this speaker that there will be no strong Polish economy when there will be no strong Polish agriculture. And we're gonna take care of it and we're gonna... And we want to be watched by the villagers. Because we will take care of the Polish village, because it is in the national interest of Poles, in the national interest of Poland, to take care of the Polish land. Because for many years, not for the last 8 years, because someone will speak for 8 years, for many years, for 18 years, for 20 years Polish agriculture has not been cared for and has led to the fall of Polish agriculture in many places, in many areas, in many markets. And we will rebuild it, as we will rebuild Polish factories, as we will rebuild Polish agricultural industry. Because we know this is our national welfare. Who does not feel it and who criticizes our good changes, which we propose for Polish agriculture, will be watched in the countryside and will be judged by the Polish village. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u379	Thank you, sir. The hot discussion has caused me to have as many as five requests for correction as rarely ever. [[There were no names.]] Time - 1 minute. Let me remind you that the correction is to clarify a misquoted statement or a misunderstood part of the statement. This is not supposed to be a polemic with what we've heard about the position of Law and Justice. We start with Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. I remind you, one minute to correct that.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u380	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Minister misunderstood my question. Remember the justification of the law from 3.5 years ago, when you said that, referring to the land trading, and you threatened foreigners... Which ones? Germans. Because they buy these better bits because they're just richer and the land goes to the hands of not Chinese, Americans, someone outside the Union, and they go to Europeans. Answer me the question of how much land was sold from the Treasury resource after the introduction of this law, how many of those that remain under your control, as Mr Telus said, were sold to non-Polish farmers. And please don't twist the cat's tail, just answer specifically how much land was sold to non-Polish farmers. Because from what all the statistics say, among others. This one from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it appears that the sale of land [[♪ The bell ♪]] 70% It's gone up. Minister, please respond. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u381	Thank you very much. Mrs Dorota Niedziela, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. [[Voice from the room: These are questions, Your Marshal, not corrections.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u382	Minister, you misunderstood. You told me at the committee meeting. I didn't ask you why you introduced a billion dollars because I know why you introduced a billion dollars because the record was too weak. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u383	Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u384	My question is, and you did not answer it: Will a bank that will take over the land, for example for unpaid pledges, be subject to the rigor of this law, or will the bank sell agricultural land to anyone without any restrictions? And that was the question. You know exactly what my question is, because you didn't answer that question at the committee meeting either. So once again, I ask, will the bank that takes over the land's liabilities be subject to the law, or will it sell it on general terms? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u385	Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz.15. It's also a corrigendum and one minute too.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u386	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, you misunderstood me. I clearly said that the Ministry of Investment and Development is responsible for spatial planning. All I did was point out that the minister said that this bill wouldn't be operational for three years. It is a problem that we or the state have now prepared a law that will cause a mess in the countryside, and only in three years will there be the first tools to try to civilize the spatial order in the countryside. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u387	Thank you. Mr Marek Sawicki, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats. Here you go, one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u388	Minister, you didn't understand my question. I specifically asked about the names of the speculators, the names of the specific pillars you identified and punished. About the MSWiA report, which gives the data that I quoted. And you have selectively divided them into those from the European Union and from outside the European Union. The MSWiA report shall also take into account those within the European Union. And I also asked you that, and you didn't mention it at all, who invented the company Eskimos and under what rules. [[When he pays.]] And why was Eskimos invented the principle of pawning the land of the State Treasury? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: When he pays.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u389	Thank you. And the last corrigendum - Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. Mr President, remember, it's time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u390	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, please. I am here to see the rapporteur. [[Voice from the room: Thank you.]] Mr. Speaker! I do not know what is the most important source of income for you, whether the salary in parliament or the running of a farm. But you still misunderstood what I said. Drought, according to experts, cost Poland 8 billion PLN. The government of the government coalition only helped at the level of PLN 2 billion. And it's in a brave system: 1.5 in 2018 and 0,7 in 2019 There's never been such a drought. And it's a good thing they didn't pay out the other governments of these money for the drought, because you can't, none of the farmers prey on the drought. But by 1.1 billion you reduced your agricultural money in 2019. And when it comes to water and melioration and other things, I want to. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ask if you have any projects on melioration, the rain pit...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u391	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u392	...that kind of thing, 'cause...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u393	Thank you very much. [[That's not the point.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u394	This is more important to farmers than this law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u395	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Romanowski also presented the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development in view of the correction of his willingness to speak at this point. After this request for correction, I will no longer take into account. So please do not make any requests because they will not be taken into account, because there can be no endless polemics. [[It was for me.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u396	Thank you, Marshal, for reminding me what a form of correction means. On the other hand, on the very important information that has just come out here, I would like to remind you, Madame, that in 2016 the regulation of the Minister of Justice concerning the so-called 'rights' was amended. chamber executions in relation to the holding. Such a very old regulation, which has not been amended for 8 years. You could leave one horse, one cow, one heart. It has been implemented, which is protected on such a holding, which is not subject to execution. E.g. the basic stock, the land as regards the calculation of the stock, the agricultural inputs. [[Earth. How much land?]] The analysis for this Regulation shall be based, for example, on the opinion of an agricultural advisory centre. So please go back to that regulation that has been amended. In this way, many farmers were rescued. [[A billion.]] Madam President, I repeat once again that, with this great experience, you should know very well that the strategic companies of the State Treasury, which manage on the ground in order to increase the economic potential of our Polish farmers, manage within the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury. These land from the stock of strategic companies lease. Remember, don't confuse concepts, don't tell such really ridiculous things here. [[Security, security.]] Minister Sawicki is constantly raising the issue of poles, speculation. I explained what the concept of speculation meant, what was going on from 2008 to 2015 and how much the prices of agricultural land in Poland sold from the Treasury's Agricultural Property Stock increased during the year, that you sold more than 800,000 from this stock. ha to pump a separate financial plan for the Agricultural Property Agency, and through this plan a budget hole, which was huge at that time. That's the kind of thing that's happened. What's the point of private entities? Because we do not have state-owned entities with which we can participate in such market mechanisms. Therefore, a private entity has been proposed and has therefore undertaken such activities. And I assure you, Minister, that this type of activity will be properly accounted for, and only Polish orchards will benefit from it. I'm not hiding. I'm not ashamed. Maybe I'm misbehaved today to sit in the back bench... [[How much land was sold?]] ...not to the constitutional ministers, but to the Member who shamed me and the fact that I was hiding, unfortunately, she hid herself and didn't expect an answer anymore. Thank you very much. [[How much land was sold, Minister?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u397	And also Mr Robert Telus. As he said, one sentence. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u398	Only one Member did not understand me, so one sentence only to Mr Aichler. Your marshal was right that this wasn't about the drought bill, but it needs to be corrected. [[People are watching us.]] He said that we paid over 2 billion, yes, 2200 million, and by 8 billion. Mr President, 8 billion were virtual estimates. You know that. The amounts resulting from all applications were paid, all protocols amounting to 2200 million. And in 2015, for your governments, only 400 million were paid.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u399	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u400	You also asked me if I was a farmer or if I was... [[Eight billion.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u401	Thank you very much, that's all. There was supposed to be one sentence.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u402	Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u403	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 31 of the agenda: the report of the Extraordinary Commission on the bill submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland amending the Labour Code Act and some other laws (prints no. 1653 and 3372). Mrs Barbara Bartus will present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u404	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I have the honour to present a report by the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications about the draft law on amending the Labour Code Act and certain other laws presented by the President of the Republic of Poland. In line with the reasons set out in the draft amendment, changes are made to facilitate the exercise of employee rights related to equal treatment, the protection of beneficiaries of parental rights, mobbing, the issue of work certificates and the limitation period for employment claims. The Marshal of the Sejm at the 45th meeting of the Sejm on 12 July 2017 sent the above draft law, contained in print No. 1653, to the Extraordinary Commission on changes to the codifications for consideration. At its meeting on 18 July 2017, the Commission addressed this proposal to the Permanent Sub-Committee, where detailed work was carried out and amendments tabled to the draft were accepted. These amendments were mainly clear and orderly. An important amendment was to clarify and supplement the rules on the handling of the employer's failure to issue a work certificate. In the draft Article adopted. Paragraph 97 (1) of the Labour Code expressly establishes the right of the worker to require the employer to issue a work certificate, indicating that in the event of the employer's failure to issue a work certificate, the worker is entitled to apply to the labour court with the employer's obligation to issue a work certificate. A provision § 2 of the proposed Article. 97 The Labour Code concerns a situation where an employer does not exist or for other reasons it is impossible to appear against him with an obligation to issue a work certificate. Since, in such a case, there is no party to proceedings which could be required to issue a work certificate, the request should be recognised in non-trial proceedings as a request to establish the right to obtain a work certificate. The consequence of this is the addition in the Code of Civil Procedure, in the book of the Second Code of Civil Procedure in the title II, a new heading designated IVb: Labour law cases. As a result of the introduction in the Code of Civil Procedure of non-trial proceedings in cases where an employer does not exist or for other reasons an action against him for an obligation to issue work certificates is impossible, it was also decided to amend the Article. 96 Law of 28 July 2005 on judicial costs in civil matters containing a catalogue of exemptions from judicial costs. In accordance with the proposed regulation, an employee applying for non-trial proceedings will also be exempted from payment of legal costs. In addition, due to the comments raised in the course of the work regarding the unnecessary changes made in the Act of 9 July 2003 on the employment of temporary workers, it was decided to delete this regulation. Therefore, the regulations proposed in the Labour Code concerning the handling of the employer's failure to issue a work certificate will apply mutatis mutandis to temporary workers on the basis of Article. 5 Act on Employment of Temporary Workers. In relation to the submission of the presidential project, the period of vacathio legis was extended from 1 month to 3 months. Only amendments to the Act on Officials of State Offices will enter into force one month after the date of publication. On 11 April 2019, the Extraordinary Commission on Codification Changes, considering the subcommittee report, adopted another amendment modifying the legislative technique when amending the Law of 28 July 2005 on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters without changing the substantive content of the amendment. The whole draft law was adopted unanimously by the committee. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Extraordinary Commission for Changes in Codifications, I would like the High Sejm to adopt the bill annexed to the report in print no 3372. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u405	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. And I invite Mrs Barbara Bartus to present her position on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u406	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I am pleased to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice concerning the report of the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications about the draft law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland amending the Labour Code Act and certain other laws contained in print No 3372. The work on the draft amendment of the Labour Code by the President of the Republic of Poland lasted almost 2 years, but in my opinion the draft law contains thoughtful and beneficial solutions for employees, and the proposed regulations will not be dead regulations because they are expected regulations. The aim of the revision of the Labour Code, as I have already said, is to introduce changes to make it easier for workers to exercise their rights of equal treatment, to protect them during maternity leave and parental rights, to increase the protection of workers from mobbing, as well as the rules on the handling of the employer's failure to issue a work certificate and the limitation periods for employment claims. I would like to emphasise, to draw attention to this, a change in terms of increasing the protection of a child-care worker. Raising children and combining this with the role of an employee is a challenge for many people. At work, children often face obstacles to reconciling work with child rearing. As of 2 January 2016, the Act amending the Labour Code Act and certain other laws facilitating the reconciliation of work and family life entered into force. In fulfilling the above-mentioned provisions, the Court of Justice has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union is not bound by the law of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union. the aim of the legislator, inter alia: simplify and make the parental leave system more flexible and enable parents and guardians of the child to share custody rights and extend the circle of persons entitled to maternity leave and parental leave to another member of the immediate family. And the proposal presented by the President now aligns the situation of another member of the immediate family who is taking maternity leave or parental leave with that of the parent. It is also very important to regulate cases relating to the procedure in the event of the employer's failure to issue a work certificate to the worker, in particular where the employer does not exist. And I think, as far as this provision is concerned, it is about writing it well, so that the designer's intentions can be taken into account, that here was the longest work, and we spent the most time on it to work out a good solution for the employees. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Law and Justice Club welcomes all amendments to the Labour Code adopted in the proposed bill. We will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u407	I invite Mrs Joanna Augustynowska, who will present her position on behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u408	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The President's draft law amending the Labour Code finally saw a further procession. I would like to remind you that the project, as Mrs Bartus has already said, entered the Sejm in 2017, so it has been under investigation for 2 years. I am really very surprised, especially today, when at an express speed of 24 hours of legislation you pass without consulting the 500+ benefit for the first child, the prom law took 3 hours and before us the Supreme Court Act, but it must be at night, because you like it most after midnight. I understand that the President and his projects simply have to wait in line for two years. And it's a pity, because it's a project that's important and necessary, and there's workers, a lot of employees waiting for it. The Act proposes important and expected changes for workers, although they are fragmented, because in my opinion the Labour Code, which was created in its entirety in 1974, is now completely inadequate for the needs of today's labour market. I remember the announcements of this government during the 2015 campaign that it will be a priority that we need to change the Labour Code in order to adapt it to today's realities. The ruling team promised it would be a priority. Three years have passed, and it turns out that we're only changing parts at the president's request. The Act proposes, among others, such changes which relate to equal treatment of workers and relate to mobbing and combating discrimination. These new entries in the assessment of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Club are correct and need to be introduced as soon as possible. Additional regulated issues, which Mrs Bartus presented here in very detail, i.e. equalizing the rights of those exercising parental rights, but also extending the catalogue of these workers to the closest family members, such as uncle, grandmother, grandfather or older siblings, are provisions that are necessary to maintain a certain balance and to safeguard the rights of the minor child, to safeguard the rights of the family, but also to safeguard the rights of the workers. Because what's really different about a situation when, I don't know, e.g. During childbirth, Mom dies, the father is gone and the grandmother who is working starts taking care of her? She should be entitled to maternity leave, to all benefits, as if she were the father of this child. Such records in this Act were found and they are necessary, useful and correct. Of course, changes in the issue and rectification of the content of the work certificate also deserve praise in my opinion, because the seven-day period for appealing to the employer or to the labour court has been extended if the employee considers that something in this work certificate is not right. This deadline has been extended to 14 days. I believe that this term is needed by an employee, because workers often fell into the so-called. a long weekend or often under the influence of emotion, stress associated with dismissal, they simply missed that term. This has caused a lot of legal consequences, because a bad work certificate or a lack of... And there are provisions in this law that say what happens when an employer does not issue a work certificate and the court cannot determine where the employer is staying, i.e. force the issue of such a work certificate - then the court will issue such a work certificate. Why is it important? Because it is on the basis of a work certificate that is calculated e.g. our pension, is determined the right to benefits or the right to leave, work placement counts for leave and many other privileges or employee rights are determined on the basis of a work certificate. Thus: All the provisions contained in this Presidential Act deserve to be implemented as soon as possible and the Civic Platform-Citizen Coalition Club will vote in favour of the bill. However, I have a huge request: maybe the president is tempted to reform the Labour Code in its entirety, because what we have today is a fragmentary patching of holes. We do not have the labour market as it was in 1974. It's 2019. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u409	Thank you, Member. I do not see Mrs Agnieszka Chasing from the Kukiz club15 or Mr... There it is. You're welcome. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats. You made it just in time. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u410	Thank you very much, it's hard not to notice. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Gentlemen of Ministers! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I would like to present our position on the report of the committee on the draft law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland amending the Labour Code Act and some other laws, prints no. 1653 and 3372. The aim of this project is in principle to make changes to facilitate the exercise of workers' rights. The project assumes the creation of an open catalogue of indications which justify discrimination against workers - now discrimination is simply a worse treatment of the worker because of his personal characteristics or non-work property, not because of reasons other than those considered discriminatory in the Labour Code. The authors of the project assume that it is possible to investigate compensation from the employer who is permitted to mobbing, even if the employee has not resolved the employment relationship, but has suffered damage as a result of the mobbing activities that he was the victim. Create special protection against dismissal of workers - other members of the immediate family who benefit from maternity or parental leave, and grant them the same rights as other workers who raise a child on such leave. The deadline for applying to the employer for the correction of the work certificate and the referral of such a request to the labour court is to be extended from 7 to 14 days. Employees are now entitled to apply to the labour court for an employer's obligation to issue a work certificate. The proposal will also allow for a judicial decision to be treated equally with a work certificate if the employer has not issued or ceased such a document despite the measures taken. There is also a plan to tighten the sanctions for the employer for not giving the worker a work certificate. High Izbo! In particular, it is appropriate to remove doubts as to whether the catalogue of discriminatory criteria referred to in Article is acceptable. 11 c.p., is an open or closed directory. A legislative procedure to remove from the provisions of the refund also allows for a clear interpretation that the catalogue is an open catalogue, which will certainly make it easier for workers and candidates to pursue discrimination claims on grounds of discrimination in employment, which is not explicitly mentioned in the said provision. It is also useful to assess the change of special protection against dismissal of workers - other members of the immediate family enjoying maternity leave or parental leave, and to grant them rights similar to those of workers and workers - to fathers who raise a child who benefit from those leave. It is expected, among other things. the extension of the catalogue of entities to which, in the event of a return to work and employment, a remuneration shall be payable for the entire period of unemployment. In cases where a protected worker does not demand a return to work due to his/her parental functions, we should also consider that he/she should be compensated for the entire period of his/her absence. Employers would then have no interest in extending judicial proceedings, as is the case in the current legal situation. Such a solution would allow employees to make requests in pleadings corresponding to their actual needs and intentions. This could prevent practices such as the fact that the worker who was returned to work is either working with the employer in a short period of time or going for longer medical leave, because his real intention was not to return to his previous job, but was to be prosecuted for his salary for remaining unemployed all the time. The draft also provides for a number of changes concerning the rules and procedures for issuing the work certificate and the procedure for correcting the content of the work certificate. The deadline would be extended to ask the employer to rectify the certificate. Despite minor comments on the project that are coming to us, the Polish People's Party Club and the European Union of Democrats is [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u411	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club, Mrs Monika Rosa will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u412	Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! The draft law deals with many aspects of the institutions of labour law. It is fragmented. Applies to e.g. changes which provide for a prohibition of discrimination and an order for equal treatment in employment in relation to the establishment and termination of employment relationships, conditions of employment, promotion and access to training to improve professional qualifications. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Supreme Court considered that the proposed wording of the proposed law does not contain significant differences in substance in relation to the original draft. The important thing that the amendment introduces is the question of the Labour Code, namely the employee's claims in the event of an unlawful termination or termination of the employment contract without notice by the employer. The changes consist in extending the circle of persons who, in the event of their return to work, are entitled to compensation for the entire period of unemployment, for employees - other family members, when the employer has declared or terminated with them without notice a contract of employment during the period of maternity leave. These solutions raise no doubts. They remove the current legal gap. A circle of people entitled to maternity leave has been extended to include employees - other members of the family. The Act also includes a revision of the provision governing compensation for the worker's use of mobbing, which is also a valid amendment. The Act introduces additions to the provisions of the Labour Code as regards the judicial path of an employee's claim for or correction of a work certificate and the extension of the deadline for seeking the correction of that work certificate and the possibility for the employer to request the issue of such a certificate. These changes are also of no doubt. In the opinion of the government, on the whole draft law, I came across a very interesting passage. I hope that the Minister will express his opinion on this passage. The Government's opinion, signed by Ms Beata Szydło, states: Regardless of the above, it should be pointed out that some of the issues covered by the presidential bill are also the subject of the work of the Labour Code Panel's draft law. That Commission was set up by Regulation of the Council of Ministers of 9 August 2016. Its task is to draw up two draft laws within 18 months of 15 September 2016: a draft Labour Code and a draft Collective Labour Law Code. My question is: How are these two draft laws? Were 1.5 years enough to develop them, or are we going to use proper but fragmented amendments? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u413	Thank you. Would any of your messengers and your fellow Members like to add themselves to the questioning list? I don't see any calls. So I'm closing the list. [[Me too.]] You're welcome. And I will close the list once you have added it. Time - 1 minute. Mr Piotr Pyzik starts asking questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u414	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the following question: Does the proposed strengthening of anti-discrimination rules apply to employed persons or also to those in the recruitment process? Of course, no one should be discriminated against in any way, and that is obvious. However, I am concerned that the proposed solution will not be abused, for example. for ideological reasons or for exerting illegal pressure on the employer, especially if this concerns those who have not qualified in the recruitment process. Please note, as some of the anti-discrimination laws in Western European countries introduced years ago, even for noble reasons, have been used over time for unlawful pressure on the part of, for example. aggressive minorities. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u415	Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u416	Minister! People who have the following problem come to my parliamentary office. Due to the introduction of the statutory hourly rate for working on garbage contracts, which is positive and we are all pleased that some employers, while maintaining the statutory hourly rate, reduce the number of hours for which they pay their money in relation to the actually worked. And then there's the problem. Of course I can say: go to the labour inspection to carry out the inspection, but I know what world we live in. If such a person reports it for a job inspection, he will be deprived of such work the next day. Often, parents come in on behalf of those who are so hurt, report a problem, and simply ask them not to reveal their name. Whether this phenomenon is reported [[♪ The bell ♪]] to the Ministry of Labour? Do you think about how to eliminate them? This may not be specifically the case for this project, but I wanted to ask you on this occasion: What government has experience and ideas on this issue? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u417	Thank you. Mrs Urszula Rusecka, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u418	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question for the rapporteur. We know that mobbing is very difficult to prove for an employee, for an employer. It is now quite common and common, but difficult to prove. I have a question: Is it in these changing laws that without termination of the employment relationship, a mobbing person, if this mobbing is proven, can seek compensation? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u419	Thank you. The last question will be asked by Mrs Joanna Augustynowska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u420	Minister! Question for you again, officially. When will the amendment of the Labour Code be promised? We're all waiting for her. Those parts that we've been sticking for three years are really not enough. We need change. The question is when exactly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u421	Thank you. We will begin with answers from the Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Andrzej Dera. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u422	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! At first, I would like to thank you very much for adopting this project by President Andrzej Duda. Indeed, this Labour Code is a need, it is necessary and these proposals in this law were based on the writings that workers wrote to the President, describing the difficult situation. There were particularly numerous cases concerning the absence of work certificates, where companies disappeared, where work certificates could not be obtained. As you have rightly pointed out here, this is a serious problem for such workers. They cannot document their employment time, which affects relationships with regard to the future of benefits, leave etc. So that's what we had to do. Here I will answer this question immediately, why the work took so long. We are very seriously in consultation with the Ministry of Justice and with the Ministry of Labour working on this procedure, because really, believe me, it was not easy to write down this procedure so that it would be effective. We knew more or less what was going on. We modified this project very strongly as a last resort and in relation to what was in the project, because there were a number of such comments of practitioners saying that it might be a problem for employees. We have been working through these months on the one hand to work on a solution that is legislatively and legally good, but above all, to have employees then... to make this procedure clear and simple for employees. Hence the extension, hence and procedural, and non-process, depending on the situation. It's clearly separated. And that's where it was pretty... Although the amendment is not big, it was a lot of work. Here I would like to thank the Minister and the Minister of Justice very warmly for the fact that these were very substantive and good conversations. I think they work pretty good... not good enough, good enough and needed for the employees of the project. And now I will answer the first question, because only the first one was addressed to me, the remaining ones were to the Minister or to the Member. I would also like to thank you, Madam President, for the very smooth implementation of this project first in the subcommittee and then in the committee. Let's get back to the question. Well, Mr Pyzik asked whether this concerns whether these anti-discrimination rules may apply to those who are recruited. The answer is: they cannot, because these provisions concern workers. Recruitment is a completely different process and these are already civil issues. If something were to happen there... for some reason there would be discrimination, then each of us, because each one of us can happen in the future, has only a civil path. There's no code route here, because the code applies to employees. And that's the simplest answer to that question. Once again, I would like to thank you and hope that these regulations will come into force as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u423	Thank you. The questions will be answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Mr Stanisław Szwed. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u424	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I, too, would first like to thank the President very much for these initiatives, because these are important changes. They may not be as extensive as we all wish in this Chamber, but these are important changes because they concern the protection of workers, especially in a situation like motherhood or parenthood. And that's what's important. A very important change, which Mrs Ruseck also asked about, is the issue of mobbing. Until now, you had to terminate your employment contract, which means you lost it. Today, compensation can be sought without termination of the employment contract. So that's also an important change. The problem that Mrs Butterwska was talking about, I think that we are all dealing with. The employees come to our offices or former employees and they're just afraid to reveal their name, they're complaining. The body to which we are addressing is the State Labour Inspection, and there is no other method at the moment so that we can apply it. Of course, such practices need to be branded. It is also accepted and it follows from the regulations that the Labour Inspector cannot disclose the name of the person who complains to him. I think this is the way we should go. If there are cases where the inspector reveals that name somewhere, I think it is worth complaining to the Chief Labour Inspector for such an inspector, because it should be such a principle that the Labour Inspector must be credible in the sense that there is no abuse here. And the main question you asked. Of course, we're all thinking about it, and I think we need new work codes. Let me remind you that we have set up a codification committee to work on the new two Labour Codes, because we accepted at the beginning of our work that it would be a code of individual labour relations and collective labour relations. We have set up a codification committee composed of labour law experts, professors of labour law and seven representatives of representative trade union organisations. The work, in my opinion, was good, at a good level of substance, the material is good, but at the final stage of the work on the final text, I think, more individual Labour Code social parties, i.e. both trade unions and employers, had a number of reservations about individual provisions, hence there was practically no possibility that in this form we would present this code to the state for work in parliament. Work on the Labour Code, if we want to take it seriously, requires at least a 2-year period of work in Parliament. And I think that the material that gathered the codification committee, which is also in the possession of our ministry, will be good for the next term of office of the Sejm, to begin work immediately after the new constitution of the Sejm. We are aware that these changes are needed in the work on the Labour Code, but we are also aware that building a Labour Code against social partners would not make much sense, because this Labour Code must serve workers and must also be used positively by employers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u425	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Barbara Bartus, rapporteur of the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u426	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I will start first by speaking on behalf of the PO-KO Club by Mrs Augustowska, who on the one hand... [[Augustinian. Augustine's my name.]] I'm sorry. But I think the most important thing is the meaning of the expression, if I turned my name, I'm sorry. ...she accused herself of being slow about this presidential project, and, on the other hand, she accused the project of making too little change. And here both Minister Dera and Minister Stanisław Szwed referred to the subject. Because the project, even though it contains little change, was a project that we spent a lot of time on, although it was in the early days that we expected a little bit of what the codification committee would present, because it would be pointless to revise the code before possible introduction of a whole new project that would take into account the problems that President Andrzej Duda pointed out. And I would like to draw your attention, but I think that this remark concerns all of us, so that we remember that the codes are special laws, laws which are subject to stricter rules, because it is the code that is the law around which specific provisions are created. I would like to say, for example, what I have pointed out, namely that the Commercial Code from 1934 to 2000 had probably less amendments and functioned better after the changes than the Commercial Companies Code, which was subsequently introduced and there was a need for frequent revision. The provisions, amendments to any code should be very thoughtful and therefore we have met on several occasions at the subcommittee meetings, but we have also met outside the committee under the inter-ministerial arrangements in which the President's representative took part. And yes, on this occasion, I would like to thank all the members of the codification committee, including all the ministries, Minister Stanisław Szwed, who makes a very big contribution to this final project, but also Minister Piebiak and of course the entire firm, and above all the President, for the fact that, thanks to good, efficient work, very good solutions have been prepared, which we will regulate in this area, will serve everyone. I also wanted to draw attention to the specifics of the Code in a different situation. These changes are expected, but codes usually also have longer vacathio legis. And if you had ever listened to a lecturer on the law, you would have found out that short vacathio legis should not apply to such specific laws. And so there was an extension of the vacathio legis up to 3 months, with the standard 2-week vacathio legis. Let me stress once again that any amendment to the Code should be done with great caution, and this is how we approached this topic. I will answer Mrs Rusecka's question about mobbing. You asked if it was possible to claim compensation in case the employee didn't terminate his employment due to mobbing. During the work, this is how we clarified this article. 94 § 4 to introduce the possibility of seeking compensation for mobbing, so that these very intentions of the designer, that is, the intentions of the President, should be taken into account as much as possible, because such intentions were and we have written it down in quite detail. On the other hand, I would like to refer at all to the issue of mobbing, which, as you said, is indeed a very difficult charge to prove. In my parliamentary office, I have often met with mobbing people who, after going to the labour inspection, were even more stigmatized, but maybe in another way. This is a very difficult situation and regulation of the issue of mobbing is very difficult. Nor can we fail to notice that sometimes the laws on mobbing are abused. Sometimes people, it is the employees who suggest that they are being mobbed, and this is absolutely incompatible with the facts. Failure to fully regulate this issue, which offers great opportunities in situations where workers want to abuse the rules on mobbing, can lead to a completely different situation, especially for smaller employers who do not employ lawyers. So that the subject of mobbing is very difficult. The rules that we introduce provide for compensation of no less than a minimum wage for work in the event that the employee has been mobbed or, as a result of this mobbing, has resolved the employment relationship. Once again, thank you all very much for working on this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u427	Thank you. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u428	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the presidential draft law amending the Labour Code Act and some other laws. This project is the result of proposals coming to the President's Office and the regulations proposed in it are fragmented and cover various institutions of labour law. Nevertheless, I have no doubt that they will serve the Polish employee in the investigation of his rights and at the same time will not burden employers without need. As indicated in the explanatory memorandum of this project, its aim is to introduce changes to facilitate the exercise of workers' rights. The proposed amendments concern inter alia. establishing a fully open catalogue of the grounds for discrimination or extending the circle of persons who, in the event of their return to work, are entitled to compensation for the entire period of unemployment when the employer has declared or terminated with them without notice a contract of employment during the period of maternity leave. With the solutions proposed in this amendment, any unequal treatment of workers, which is not justified by objective reasons, will be treated as discrimination. In addition, it is also envisaged to allow workers whose mobbing has caused health problems, to seek compensation, even if they do not decide to terminate their employment relationship, and to make a number of changes concerning the issue of a work certificate, including the right to apply to the labour court for an employer's obligation to issue a work certificate when it fails to comply with that obligation. I am convinced that all the issues contained in this proposal are very important and serve to implement the principle of social justice. They remove the shortcomings of the current regulations and seek to make it easier for the worker, as a weaker party to the employment relationship, to defend his rights. There has been little interest in these tools so far and the changes will help to make the aid available more flexible so that it meets the real needs. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of further proceding this amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u429	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. I'm calling a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 min. 55 hours 18 min 58]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 32 of the agenda: Report of the Health Committee on the draft Act on National Oncology Strategy presented by the President of the Republic of Poland (prints no. 3266 and 3383). Mr Tomasz Latos will present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u430	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Health a report on the draft Act on National Oncology Strategy presented by the President of the Republic of Poland, in print no. 3266 and 3383 respectively. Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, as far as I can remember, we are discussing the situation of Polish oncology in the Health Committee. In the past, various legal solutions have been adopted, after many discussions. The most famous solution from the previous term is the oncology package. Later, of course, there were appropriate amendments to this package. Now we are dealing with another test, another action to improve the situation of oncology patients in Poland. This President's initiative is very well founded and necessary, although it will, of course, be filled in with concrete content. The establishment of the council, the appointment of experts, the activities that will be undertaken by this council - in fact, it will be filled with content which, hopefully, will be one of the elements of the breakthrough in oncology care in Poland. Surely it is also worth discussing these matters with the oncologists' community. During the work on this bill, we had the opportunity to listen to the oncology environment in this case. Assuming further action and taking into account the start that this initiative has given, with hope, here I express my opinion, but also, I hope, the majority of the committee members, we approach this project. The project received a positive recommendation from the Health Committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u431	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Anna Czech will speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u432	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I have the honour to present my position on the draft Act on National Oncology Strategy, in print no. 3266 and 3383. The draft Act on National Oncology Strategy, which is an initiative of the President of the Republic of Poland, creates a legal framework for the development and adoption of the National Oncology Strategy. It will be a comprehensive and long-term document. This is required by the current and projected increase in the incidence of cancer and the resulting mortality and social consequences, including deterioration in the quality of life of the sick and their families, as well as the high financial burden for citizens and public finances associated with the treatment of these diseases. This requires decisive action. The National Oncologic Strategy for the period 2020-202030 takes up this challenge. The objectives have been very well defined and set. The first objective is to reduce the incidence of cancer by health education, promote health, prevent and promote healthy lifestyles. The second objective is to improve the early detection of diseases, diagnostics and treatment. The third objective is to develop the health care system in the field of oncology by concentrating activities around the patient and his needs. The fourth, very important objective is to ensure equal access to adequate quality benefits in the field of oncology. It's a really important target. It will be implemented through the development and implementation of changes that will give the sick equal access to coordinated and comprehensive healthcare, which should ensure that the inhabitants of smaller towns away from the centres are of equal quality or similar quality as those of larger agglomerations. Of course, the strategy also aims at education, training of staff and increasing efficiency, and the successful implementation of new solutions. The strategy includes: an analysis of the current state of prevention - it is contained in various documents and we are trying to implement prevention programmes, but it is important that we analyse the current state of detection, diagnosis and treatment of diseases - diagnosis and identification of actions to be taken in the field of prevention, early detection and treatment; setting priorities as well as a detailed process for implementing these priorities; identifying the actors responsible for this. Importantly, the document will be adopted by the Council of Ministers. The high rank of this document makes it directional for other ministers, not just for the lonely Minister of Health. The fact that the strategy will be implemented on the basis of a timetable should be welcomed. His project, developed by a wide panel of experts, for the following calendar year the Minister for Health shall present to the Council of Ministers by 30 September. It is optimistic that such a first timetable for 2020 will be presented by the Minister of Health no later than 30 September. This law is one, consistent, long-term, defining a clear concept and action programme of a document which aims to improve the situation of Polish cancer patients. It should gradually improve the results of cancer treatment in Poland. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Law and Justice Club welcomes the bill submitted and will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u433	Thank you, Member. And I invite Mrs Alicia Chybicka to present her position on behalf of the Civic Platform-Citizen Coalition Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u434	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Club, I have the honour to present my position on the Act on National Oncological Strategy. This law is being imposed on the already existing oncology care system. The number of malignancies is constantly increasing. In Poland, this figure is estimated to reach 180 thousand this year. Unfortunately, it is also estimated that 100,000 people will lose their lives because of this. persons. The PO-PSL government has introduced very beneficial changes in oncology, among others. in the form of an oncology package. The presented project is partly a continuation of the work initiated by the PO-PSL government. And this is a very positive thing. The card introduced by this government, the DiLO card, is used in this project. The strategy concerns a relatively short period, as it refers to the years 2020 to 2030. It is for cancer diseases that a relatively long time is not. That's why my doubt at the committee meeting already woke me up. and still wakes up the article. Point 2 (1) where the main objective of the strategy is to reduce the incidence of cancer. Civic Platform - The Civic Coalition does not wish anything else Polish sick, Polish citizens really, as only a reduction in the level of this disease. According to experts, however, it is not possible for many reasons, because the cause of cancer is not known, achieving this goal in such a short period of time based on prevention can result in many years, certainly more than 10. And if someone found the cause of the cancer, which I wish the creators of this program, they would have earned the Nobel Prize. The only known effective method to prevent cancer is vaccination, e.g. Anti-HPV in cervical cancer. It actually prevents, not 100% , but about 80% this disease in women and prevents cancer of the throat, mouth, esophagus in men. The project has many imperfections, e.g. The proposed diagnostic and therapeutic path is not friendly to a person with a suspicion of lung cancer, it introduces organizational chaos. These patients go not to oncology centers, but to pulmonology wards. The additional path that a sick person has to go through, due to the regional coordinator, only extends the process of diagnosis. The project takes too little account of the network of hospitals and university clinics. The care of the sick, not only with lung cancer, but also with all other cancers, should take place in specialist centers richly equipped, and this is what university clinics are like. It is a mistake in our opinion not to use the development, very good, prepared by many oncologists in 2014 and called the cancel plan. Finally, the issue of piloting, 48 million PLN. Both coordination centres, the Lower Silesian Oncology Centre and the Świętokrzyskie Oncology Centre, have limited experience in diagnostics and treatment, e.g. lung cancer. Pilotage e.g. It refers to the hospital network law, and it refers to the hospital network, but it doesn't use it. However, the findings, which are included in the project, have virtually nothing to do with the implemented hospital network. The quality and coordination of care for oncology patients can be improved and perhaps improved, because what is most flawed in adult oncology and what is not in paediatric oncology is the lack of uniform therapeutic plans throughout Poland. And there is hope that the project will actually create the possibility of proper treatment of patients regardless of where they are located, the same treatment and the same chance of healing. The constant problem, not fully included in the project, is the underestimation of the costs of treatment and diagnosis of cancers in Poland. These 48 million PLN for piloting will not serve directly the sick, it does not translate into financing medical procedures that are constantly being valued too low. The Civic Platform - The Civic Coalition always cares about the health of Poles, and cancer, as I said, will take 100,000 this year. persons. There's a lot of hope here. This project, despite the above mentioned and many other mistakes that I did not have time for. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to say, good goes and the Civic Platform - the Civic Coalition will vote in favour of this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u435	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, Mr Kozłowski will present his position. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u436	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Each year, more than 150 thousand cancers occur in Poland. people, and the prognosis is getting worse. This problem affects many families. This is a social problem, but it is also an economic problem in the state. Therefore, when you read the title of the draft act: on the National Oncology Strategy, you can hope that it will be better. But this project, which we're going to consider, is kind of part of something that already exists, because we already have a national programme to fight cancer. Since health should be apolitical, I, in what I want to convey, will rely solely on the work of the Office of Sejm Analysis, which is apolitical, is an expert office, which has a lot of comments to this law. And let me quote these comments which call into question the effectiveness of this project: The adoption of a new law on the rules for the development of a multiannual programme for the fight against cancer in the proposed form does not, I stress, make significant changes to the solutions for the effective fight against cancer in society. This is not my opinion, this is a sentence quoted directly from the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office, from a substantive opinion. Further comments can be summarised in this way: The proposed law is only a directional act containing a set of generally valid demands for the formulation and adoption by the Council of Ministers of a multiannual programme called the National Oncology Strategy in the project. The draft requires the Council of Ministers to adopt this programme for the period 2020 to 2030. It should be noted that the draft does not contain precise rules on the rules for the design and implementation of the strategy. The main role in its preparation and implementation is to be played by a team appointed from among representatives of 11 medical associations listed in the Act, representatives of patient associations, whose statutory tasks include the protection of the rights of cancer patients, representatives of the Minister responsible for Health, representative of the President of the Republic of Poland, representative of the National Health Fund and representative of the conference of rectors of medical universities. The Act does not specify the number of members of the team, which, in conjunction with the principle of taking decisions by a simple majority, may have a bearing on the final shape of the document. The Council of Ministers adopted such a strategy by a resolution and this procedure indicates that there may be problems with its adoption in the event that the government does not accept the draft strategy. Next quote: The objectives of the strategy are very broad and this way of defining them does not raise any objections, but the solutions adopted in the draft for its development, form, lack of funding basis and the lack of clear reference to the existing multiannual programme for 2016 and 202024 cause that the draft law submitted cannot be assessed positively. This is an assessment of the Sejm Analysis Office, not mine. This is a substantive opinion. In conclusion of this assessment, I would like to quote here some parts of the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office: The oncology strategy provides insufficient normative basis for the actions identified in the explanatory memorandum and related to ensuring the efficient organisation of screening tests with adequate training of staff, continuous modernisation of medical infrastructure, the implementation of modern oncology management system and the conduct of innovative research. I spoke to the representatives of the patient organizations and they defined the bill with a single word: a bang. I'm sorry, this may sound bad that Kukiz!15 will not support this bill, but we will not support another duplication of something that exists, and it is just an apparent action. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u437	Thank you very much. Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish will speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party - European Union of Democrats. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u438	Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! We kindly accept the President's initiative in the field of health, in the field of oncology, to present the National Oncology Strategy. This kindness must be shown, because it is not a fundamental area of interest for the President and his constitutional responsibility. I think he's trying to do some work on the government. The government is responsible for healthcare, the Minister of Health is responsible for improving access to healthcare. The President's intention is good - that is what we read - but what Mr Kozłowski said shows that this intention is in no way supported by funding, and without funding the availability of treatment, detection or prevention of cancer will not be increased. And that's all that's missing. There is a lack of strategy related to financing oncology in Poland. The Prime Minister of the Exposé promised the establishment of the National Institute of Oncology. The strategy will be, and the institute, as it was, will no longer be in this term. There is no program, no law implementing the National Institute of Oncology. And that's the bigger problem we should face today. Okay. 100,000. people die every year from cancer. A lot of them, 30,000. People die because they're too late to be detected. Of course, the most outstanding expert in this area in the High House is probably Professor Chybick, but we all have someone in the family who has suffered or suffers from cancer. Very often we also encounter cases where too late diagnosis makes either treatment ineffective, or it is impossible to use surgical treatment, which gives the greatest effectiveness that it is impossible to cure, keep alive and in good health. Without increasing expenditure, without supporting this funding strategy, without fulfilling the promises of the National Institute of Oncology, without shortening the queues, this is impossible. I recommend to everyone who is doing theoretical oncology today, going once to any oncology department, oncology clinic, oncology institute and seeing which queues are waiting every day for a specialist to accept, what is the workload for oncologists every day in clinics and clinics, whose activity is related to the treatment of cancer diseases. I have more questions for the government. When will health care finally come first in the plans of the current government? Because you have recently offered many programs, but there is no place on the one hand for health care or teachers. Why is the principle of discretion not applied in your politics? A prudent government, with a budget surplus, with economic growth, invests and meets the most pressing needs. The underfunding of hospitals, the increase in the debt of county hospitals, the underfinancing of medical procedures - these are today the greatest needs and problems in the field of health care. Why doesn't any of your package, your fives, the new fives you've announced apply to matters related to improving patients' access to doctors, with an increase in salaries, maybe not to doctors in the first place, but to paramedics, physiotherapists, rehabilitators, all the professions that are in the area of patient responsibility? After all, in your group there are very good hospital directors, I know them from my district, they have great knowledge about this and they know what to do. But you have to listen to them, not just think about the next election, forgetting the next generation. Without this, no, not even the best intention, Minister, will ever achieve any of the best strategies. The strategy without money will remain only a wishful thinking, right and beautiful, but not to be realized. We support intentions and support the introduction of strategies, but on behalf of patients, health professionals and all those responsible for health care, we demand, demand and expect increased spending on health care, reach at once 6% GDP transferred to health care. It was possible this year, if the number one for this government was a patient, not an election. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u439	Thank you very much. The speeches on behalf of the Modern Club and the Free and Solidarnia wheels were submitted in writing. We're going to ask questions. Would any of your messengers and your fellow Members still want to be on the list? I can't see. I'm closing the list for that. Mr Szczerba will be the first question to be asked... But I don't see him. In that case, Mrs Alicja Chybicka, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u440	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the following question. This project, of course, refers to piloting and this 48 million PLN. Here we talked a lot about money and I agree with the previous speakers that this is a cloud case. Without money in health care there will be absolutely no improvement. It's just the system pads, like I said, they're not gonna change that. Are - and what - measures envisaged? Because maybe instead of television, it would be enough to shift this billion 200 to this cancer strategy and there would be some real improvement. [[Applause]] There'd be better chemotherapy, anything would be better. What money and where did you secure these points, rightly referred to here as some kind of outline... That 48 million, first of all, that's not enough. Will this amount be increased? There are certain conversion factors for oncology right now, but they're still really too small and if it weren't for extra-budget funding, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I can say that many children with cancer would not be in this world. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u441	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz July, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u442	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! We are talking about a very good idea in our intentions, because we are creating a team for the National Oncology Strategy, which will carry out the tasks set out in this. A very good idea - it will define directions for the development of research, training courses for medical staff, certainly improve resource management in the field of oncology. On the other hand, the Clou case is in financial resources, because, as you know, we are giving out very large financial resources in this Chamber and it cannot be so that, on the basis of one person, we spend so many times less on our behalf. I'm not even talking about the United States anymore, where six times more money is transferred to oncology, I am not even talking about France and the UK, i.e. the countries of the Union, where three times is spent. more money, but all you have to do is talk about the Czech Republic, where you spend twice oncology money. Let me remind you that Europe's highest mortality rate after Hungary [[♪ The bell ♪]] and Croatia has Poland. It is therefore worth considering where these measures should be addressed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u443	Thank you. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u444	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The National Oncology Strategy is the answer to the increase in the incidence and mortality of malignant cancers in Poland. These are very good goals. However, I have a question about the financing of this strategy. How much money will be spent on this? What sources will these funds come from? We already have a programme on similar themes - the National Programme for the Control of Cancer Diseases, and the objectives of both of these documents overlap in part. Wouldn't it be appropriate to combine both of these activities or at least close cooperation between them? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u445	Thank you. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u446	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We read in the justification that one of the reasons for the high mortality of Poles for cancer is too late detection of the disease. Cancers are most commonly detected in the second or fourth stages of the disease, which is highly differentiated depending on the cancer. And we should lean forward on this problem first. In order to change this situation, it is necessary to reorganize rapid access to oncology clinics, but above all to educate doctors to be particularly sensitive to diagnosis in this direction. Of course, there is also no neglect to expand mandatory screening and awareness-building studies, how crucial it is to periodically study and to ignore any symptoms by each and every one of us. It's obvious. But I'd like to focus on bringing up doctors. My question is simple: How many hours of classes is a future doctor, a medical student doing with an object called oncology? What is the guarantee that an intern doctor, with whom any of us will appear, for example. with laryngitis, will make a good diagnosis [[♪ The bell ♪]] and e.g. Will he rule out laryngeal cancer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u447	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Beata Małecka-Libera, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u448	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! No one has any doubt that the subject of oncology arouses emotions, that you have to do everything to make the number of diseases less. No one has any doubts about that. Nevertheless, I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that you are indeed masters in the creation of fiction and mirage. Drug policy is the first example. Strategy, a lot of noise, debates, conferences. What's next? Empty document. Now the National Oncology Strategy. National - great! Another national show. But what's inside? Nothing, Minister. It rained many times even from the mouth of the applicant: hopefully this will be filled with content. You said it yourself. No content and, worst of all, no money. Because to create a national program, you have to have a separate source of funding. There is no source of funding, unless today the Minister tells us exactly what the money is and where it's going to come from. Speaking of oncology, of national strategy, [[♪ The bell ♪]] So where's the national strategy of the heart? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u449	Thank you. The next question will be asked by Mr Marek Hok, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u450	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Of course, we say the same thing all the time: there is a lack of funding for health care, especially oncology. Polish Oncology currently has only 6% of all health care expenditures from the National Health Fund. This is PLN 6.5 billion in the context of almost 85 billion, which we spend under the health fund. Without spending, we have no way of improving our patients. About 180,000, of course. new diseases, it was said many times, about 100,000. A year Poles die because of this, and in general about 1 million Poles are currently affected by cancer. Without prevention, without everything we've been building for many, many years, we're not going to make any progress. Cytology. So far, the National Health Fund has been directing invitations to patients. The same goes for mammography. Reporting in the area of 30 and 35% causes the patients to arrive in a very late period in terms of the diagnosis of the stage of the disease, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's why so much mortality. Financial expenditures and financial expenditures again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u451	Thank you. Mr Paweł Skutecki, the Kukiz club15, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u452	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It's scary and depressing because we hear 150,000. Poles will get sick, 100,000. Poles will die, often in horrible torments. It's gonna be a terrible tragedy for families. What does the Polish government do? What does the Polish President do? He prepares strategy, plans. Minister! The child knows that tea doesn't get sweeter than mixing, but it doesn't get sweeter than sugar, and you don't put that sugar in here. The Sejm Analysis Office stated in the opinion that the sources of funding for this strategy are very enigmatic. Minister, what does enigmatic mean? Will there be money for it, or will there be no money? Because that's the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u453	Thank you. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u454	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I will also continue this financial thread, because it is the biggest problem and a big problem. In fact, it disqualifies this strategy. Even the best programs, the most accurate strategies will not help to reduce the incidence, and particularly important, the cures of the sick if there is no specific money behind this. In this document I found no statements on this subject, no assumptions or ideas. Each strategy should have this element that talks about the sources of its funding, because then it is a strategy, and otherwise it is, you can say, a wish document. I don't think that's what Poles are talking about. And I ask: What funds will be transferred to this end? When are we gonna know about this? Without it, it's just... [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's hard to call it strategy. Thank you very much. [[The presidency includes Deputy Marshal of the Seym Beata Mazurek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u455	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Małgorzata Chmiel, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u456	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! No one needs to be convinced of the importance of caring for cancer patients, the importance of this subject. We're talking about today. Act on National Oncology Strategy. Ladies and gentlemen! This is only a collection of different wishes that we would like them to be fulfilled, but this does not bring any substantive changes. It is only a directional act, without taking into account rules, deadlines, money, without knowing at what time and for what time they will be spent, without any financial basis. It's something you can only talk about. And every fourth resident in Poland suffers from cancer, every year 150 thousand. people fall into cancers, and about 100,000. people are dying. Ladies and gentlemen! I said, what happened? Why aren't you leaning on a very good one? [[♪ The bell ♪]] the 2014 programme, so-called cancel plan?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u457	Thank you very much, Member. The question is asked by Mrs Elisabeth Stępień, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u458	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My question is addressed to the Minister. That is, I am most interested in what meters will be used, indicators which are to be the basis for assessing the result of this pilotage. According to the information contained in the justification, the effects of piloting are to improve the quality and safety of oncology treatment and increase the level of patient satisfaction, as well as optimise the cost of oncology care. This is very interesting. There's another thing about the age limit for cancer prevention. Whether you're over 59 or 69. They don't have that chance anymore and they're gonna die? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u459	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, PSL - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u460	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Ministers! The Law and Justice Member has stated that the Act improves the situation of cancer patients. Unfortunately, however, the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office, which states that the Law does not bring anything new, is more credible. The most relevant is perhaps Mr Kosiniak-Kamish's statement, which claims that the intention is good, but nothing more. Therefore, I would like to ask: How much more will be spent on the treatment of diseases, oncology patients in the near future? And to the Minister, the representative of the government, I will ask the question: Is it true that in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie region there will be less than 100 million in hospital medicine in 2019? Is this really the help to sick people? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u461	Thank you. The question is asked by Michał Szczerba, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u462	High Izbo! Minister! Before we solve all problems of Polish oncology, before we prepare the National Oncology Strategy, let's solve one problem. Namely at the Warsaw Wola in the Attis Centre at ul. Górczewska was established in 2007 at the Women's Oncology Department: 28 beds, full care from diagnosis to rehabilitation. Ladies and gentlemen! This Women's Oncology Department has been empty for a year and a half. It's empty because there's no contract with the Mazovian health fund. This is an outrageous situation because this Women's Oncology Department received a positive opinion - here is the signature of Minister Radziwiłł. But this bet can't provide any services because it doesn't have a contract. Before the President solves the problems of Polish oncology, I ask that he take an interest in the Women's Oncology Department at the Attis Centre in Warsaw. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u463	That's what we've done with asking questions. Please respond and take the floor of the Deputy Head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, Minister Paweł Mucha.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u464	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, this bill is a response to the genuine demand that is signalled by the oncology experts, because today most European countries, but also a country such as the United States of America, are active in fighting cancer in the sphere of prevention, and health education, and specific measures in terms of diagnosis, in terms of research and innovation, are based on the so-called. cancel plans. And this cancel plan is something that's about to come up. This law creates a legal framework for the development of a document based on the principles set out in the Act on National Oncology Strategy. And this is the first methodological error that sneaked into some of these statements here. The State referred to the strategy that was created, and this strategy is to be created by setting up a team, an expert team, who will work at the Minister of Health precisely to define in detail the objectives set out in the Act in Article. 3. what kind of issues will be covered by this National Oncology Strategy as a cancel of such an operational plan. And that's what you have to pay attention to. As far as the need for such a document is concerned, I point out that the President here has responded to the needs of experts. Numerous experts participated in this work. Professor Piotr Rutkowski is present with me, but also Professor Jan Walewski, Professor Maciej Krzakowski, Professor Adam Maciej Maciejczyk, among others. National consultant in the field of clinical oncology, President of the Polish Society for Oncology. Numerous experts indicated that such a document should be drawn up. And it is precisely necessary that, just as the PTO discussion on this document began... We would not only reason in terms of the internal document of the Polish Oncology Society, but we would deal with a legal act which is adopted at the level of the resolution of the Council of Ministers. The resolution of the Council of Ministers, which will define this programme in a 10-year context, will also be updated, at least every 5 years. Moreover, within the framework of the National Oncology Strategy, it is clear that a detailed timetable will be drawn up, which will also address the issue of sources of funding for the National Oncology Strategy in a given year. So here in these statements there were a lot of misunderstandings, but also information objectively incorrect, because here it rained, among others. in the course of the club's statement and then in the question of Prof. Chybick's statement about the alleged 40 million PLN or the alleged pilotage. Professor, with all due respect, the bill isn't at all about the circumstances that you served here from the Seym Court. There's been a fundamental misunderstanding. The professor was not based on the text of the bill, either by presenting the position of the club or by asking a question. You have to reach into the bill and just read the bill. So I'm appealing to speak, but with some knowledge of the matter. A fundamental misunderstanding concerning the National Programme for the Control of Cancer, which is an intervention programme which does not define such a wide range. The document we're talking about, the National Oncology Strategy, that's the perspective I was talking about, a 10-year-old. And that's coordination. actions by various public institutions to combat cancer. The tasks included in the National Oncology Strategy should address systemic solutions in areas such as health care, education, science and research. The legal form in the form of a resolution in the best possible way will safeguard the durability of the document and ensure its implementation. There was a question over and over again about funding. Firstly, the strategy is to identify the sources of funding and today it is defined by the law itself in Article. 8, which states that it will be both public and non-public measures. I have talked about this in the context of the public-private partnership project, in terms of, for example, research on innovation, the introduction of new medicines or other areas where we can imagine this functioning within PPPs. If you ask what is behind the statement: public funds, today it is settled by the Public Finance Act and it can be whether it is public revenue or from the budget of the European Union. In detail, the catalogue is mentioned in Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Public Finance Act and, of course, all the possibilities that are included here are at stake. But this is an important novel that we are talking about, we are defining a legal framework. This is a multi-monthly work of an outstanding team of experts, such experts who will be representatives of the patient environment, who will be representatives of scientific associations dealing with this issue. This is indicated in the bill. But we are also talking about absolute openness, because the bill assumes that the leader of the team can also select people for this cooperation and based on the scientific reflection of oncologists, patients and experts, a document is being produced which - presented - will be a commitment to policy for many years. We point to these specific circumstances in the wording of the law itself and in the explanatory memorandum, also recalling good practices as regards the legislation of other countries. The objectives of the strategy are set out in Article. Two, we're talking about a reduction in morbidity. And here as a correction or reference to one of the questions: we are not just talking about oncology patients, about those who are already in the process of treatment, we are talking about some prevention, health education, health promotion, health awareness-raising and the promotion of a healthy lifestyle. That is why we are talking about the fact that this is a document to be adopted by the Council of Ministers in the legal formula, because it refers to the characteristics of the various departments of government administration, that is to say, we are going out of the area of competence of the Minister of Health. We are talking about the Minister of National Education, we are talking about the Minister responsible for higher education or issues related also to other departments of administration. The issue of improving prevention, early detection, diagnosis and treatment of cancer, the development of the healthcare system. There were comments on issues related to the organisation of the national oncology network. However, on the one hand, the Act provides for an analysis of today's state in the form of a strategy, on the other hand on the basis of this analysis - a diagnosis and identification of actions to be taken in certain spheres, and, finally, a definition of priorities, an indication of sources of knowledge, a detailed way of implementing actions, an indication of the bodies responsible for implementing the actions set out therein and an indication of the sources of funding set out in that strategy. So your comments to a very large extent did not refer to this scope, which is the normative content of the bill submitted. Art. 3 very precisely defines it. There was no substantive criticism of this. Thank you very much for the vote of support that has been expressed for this bill by most clubs. I respect, of course, the detailed comments that have been made. I would point out that really the argument of this kind, that the National Oncology Strategy would not be right to exist, because there is a national programme for the eradication of cancer diseases, that is, a completely incorrect argument, showing a misunderstanding, a certain misunderstanding as to the difference between a specific intervention programme and a strategic document that is about to arise. And the issue of sources of funding is precisely this important novel that we are talking today about the fact that the National Oncology Strategy prepared according to best knowledge will, according to the current state of knowledge, be a document which will also indicate the sources of funding for the activities set out in it. And I understand that there will be monitoring by the Members of the Committee on Health here, and that this information will be updated by the Ministry of Health as well. Hence not only the right intentions and good intentions, but in my opinion good performance in terms of the draft Act on National Oncology Strategy presented by the President of the Republic of Poland. That's why thanking you for those votes of support and acceptance for this project, which has rained a lot here, I'm pointing out that it's... Of course, it is not a solution to all problems, of course it is not a wonderful remedy for all Poles today to say that we have solved all the problems and challenges that are associated with the increasing number of cancers. But also present here in the oncologists' room, and non-professionals are aware that there are such forms of cancer that can be eliminated or minimized by appropriate actions. And even if we have a tendency to increase the number of diseases, it is through education and through appropriate measures that we want to introduce mechanisms that will minimise this number when it comes to cancer. And that's the point of reference and that's the National Oncology Strategy. This document is intended to be of such a rank and importance as to pay attention to this issue and to address these problems effectively. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I appeal for the support of the bill submitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u465	Thank you very much, Minister. Now please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Mr Maciej Miłkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u466	Ladies and gentlemen! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Members, Dear Minister, I would like to thank the President and the President's Chancellery very warmly for preparing, for paying attention to the very important problem that in Poland there is no strategy as basic as oncology, where there are guidelines of the European Union, where the European Commission recommends that such strategies in each country be set up, created. And here what the Minister has already referred to is that very many questions, comments and positions of the Civic Platform club were not to the text of the bill submitted by the President. These sentences, these lines are gone. The issue of the Act concerns the preparation of an oncology strategy and in this respect the Minister for Health is called upon to prepare this strategy within a certain period of time, to monitor, coordinate and submit to the Council of Ministers for approval. The main questions you have raised are questions about the financing of this strategy. And here is also what was and is precisely specified in this bill. This law, as of today, as regards the preparation of an impact assessment, is at the stage of preparation and presentation of an oncology strategy to the Council of Ministers. Therefore, it is an element only for formalization, for performance. And at that time, because what was presented... The strategy must have a specific timetable and specific funding. And at that time, at that time, the method of financing must be presented, as the Minister said, from public funds or from non-public funds as well. The strategy is in principle very strong, because it will be adopted by a resolution of the Council of Ministers, obliges all ministers, in particular the Minister for Health, but also other ministers: the Minister for Education, the Minister for Science, the Minister for Development, to cooperate in the implementation of this plan and it is the best solution that this is done by a resolution of the Council of Ministers and financed by a multiannual programme, as the multiannual programme, in accordance with the Public Finance Act, must have financial security. This is therefore a very well-thought-out project that will provide funding for the next 10 years. Mrs Chybicka pointed out that the 10-year programme, this is a very short programme, in particular to clarify this, so that prevention works to reduce maturity. Of course, in the first period with good detection, with improved detection of these cancers there will be much more, especially in this first stage of cancer, at a stage where really can be very effective and relatively cheaply cured. And that, of course, is the goal of every plan - improving diagnosis and benefits. Very often there was a comparison to existing plans, programmes. The National Programme for the Control of Cancer Diseases, which has been adopted for the years 2016-2024, is a programme that is being implemented on an ongoing basis, has the ongoing provision of medical equipment to medical agents, partial entry into diagnostics and improvement of diagnosis of individual cancers and in this respect investment and organizational support the activities of the National Health Fund, which, in principle, is committed to financing health benefits, health promotion, treatment and diagnosis. There was talk of funding here. Today, in terms of financing health care in the field of oncology, it is more than PLN 8 billion for health services themselves. And here measures that go to a large extent on basic health care are not taken into account, which also aims at rapid and effective diagnosis of diseases. And to this group of doctors financial resources are directed to identify these diseases urgently and quickly. Here I would like to say that to a large extent there is a development of a care program and a DiLO card. And all that has been prepared by the previous government is improved. There has been a revision of these provisions and we are very good at assessing it, but the oncology strategy this is a much bigger thing than individual island solutions. We know exactly that the National Health Fund is creating further coordinated care. This is the direction that is promoted all over the world and recommended. This coordination is dedicated to specific groups of patients, specific groups of patients in such a way that they have the best possible care and in fact significantly cheaper for the health system and for the patient, for his family, for all parties. As regards specific questions, how many hours in the field of oncology individual doctors learn, in particular family medicine specialists, I do not have such knowledge, but this is precisely specified in the specialization program. Each type of specialization includes in its program many fields of medicine, ranging from pediatrics or family medicine to specialist medicine. I'm gonna go over the oncology questions. Mrs Chybick was largely involved in piloting the National Oncology Network. The National Oncology Network is one of the elements that does not involve this law. It's a team that will be set up at the Minister of Health. His representatives are identified. It will be obliged to prepare the strategy and present it to the Council of Ministers. As regards the questions of the Member concerning the financing of hospital medicine in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship, I would like to say that in relation to last year the lump sums of hospitals in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship increased by PLN 44 million, i.e. 3.4%. We know that lump sum is only part of hospital funding. Many of them, in particular oncology hospitals, receive most of the funds on the basis of actual performance, because the benefits provided under the DiLO card are always financed without limit, and of course what is always realized - benefits outside the DiLO card, benefits related to other types of benefits. If someone has committed more, he has done more in the contract, if this is a separate benefit, then the National Health Fund is clearing contracts at the end of the year. Most contracts for the previous year are already paid today. As far as the ATTIS Centre is concerned, I would like to say that these ranges and maps of health needs, which the creation of which was initiated by the previous government and Minister Zembala, have shown well that in the case of oncology surgery, surgical procedures should be concentrated in units that have the greatest experience and best equipment. There are a lot of scientific work that says that the effectiveness, effectiveness of the treatment is then the greatest. It's proven. In the case of oncology, there is no reason for surgery to further crush benefits by purchasing new centres. Poland is a country with a large number of hospitals and beds in relation to the size of the population. There is no justification for creating further centres. As I know, the ATTIS Centre is on track and will be funded in many areas. Talks are being conducted with the owner because the owner has a very strong influence on how its entity works. The owner can cause a lot of things because the owner is big. The Sejmik of Mazowieckie Voivodship has various hospitals. It can optimize and organise health care in the voivodship and its hospitals. I know that such work is carried out together with the National Health Fund. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u467	Thank you very much. I would like the floor of the rapporteur for the committee of Mr Tomas Latos.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u468	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Minister! Thank you very much for all your comments, including the critical ones. But I think we should thank you. On the one hand, they belong to the representative of the President, on the other hand to the Minister. We will work together for an oncology strategy and we will, I hope, improve the situation of Polish patients together. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u469	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u470	Dear Marshal! Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position on the report of the commission on the draft Act on National Oncology Strategy presented by the President of the Republic of Poland, in print no. 3266 and 3383. We are not often faced with a situation in which the President of the Republic intervenes by submitting his draft law on health protection. This is all the more evidence of the seriousness of the issue that we are discussing today. The draft Act on National Oncology Strategy contained in Seym Prints No. 3266 and 3383, for which I have the honour to present the position of the Modern Club, is absolutely necessary. One can argue about the form in which such a strategy should work. Is the resolution of the Council of Ministers sufficiently high and guaranteeing the implementation of the principles contained in this document by a legal act? However, I believe that with a little good will from all ministers, it will be done with due care. However, I would like to point out that a similar strategy, prepared by outstanding specialists, is already comprehensively developed. He pointed this out at the Health Committee meeting of Prof. Jacek Jassem. I call on you, even in a situation where you want to pursue your ideas, which aim to improve the care system for an oncology patient, to draw from the document "The Strategy for the fight against cancer in Poland 2015-2024" developed by the Polish Oncology Society in cooperation with eight other oncology-related scientific societies. In this strategy nine priority tasks were highlighted, which are necessary to improve the system of cancer treatment in Poland. It's a knowledge worth taking advantage of. Despite some doubts about the purpose of the project and the possible duplication of existing solutions The modern one appreciates the President's initiative and will vote in favour of the proposed solutions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u471	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the presidential draft act on the National Oncological Strategy. According to data from the National Cancer Register, the number of cancers in Poland has increased more than twice over the last three decades. In 2015, this disease was the cause of death of about 100,000 people. our countrymen. The data is therefore alarming, even forcing the development of new solutions in the field of prevention and treatment of cancer. For this reason, I welcomed the proposed presidential proposal. Its objective, as the applicant points out, is to create a legal framework for the development and adoption of the National Oncology Strategy, a document of a comprehensive and long-term nature. In practice, this means that when adopting this project, we not only oblige the government to develop cancels of the plan, but also require it to monitor, implement and fund the implementation of the strategy. It is particularly important in the draft that the implementation of the plan will be reported annually to the Polish Sejm by the Minister of Health and that it will be updated at least every 5 years. I am convinced that such a solution will allow the content of the strategy to be constantly adapted to the constantly changing realities so that its assumptions are up to date and respond to demand. As highlighted in the Health Committee, this draft law is a framework programme that needs to be completed with content and concrete actions. The extent to which we will engage in its implementation and the level at which these activities will be financed determines the success of the National Oncology Strategy designed today. Today's outline has been developed with the participation of experts and authorities in the field of oncology. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of further proceding this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u472	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. The group of Members submitted a request to express a vote of distrust towards the Minister of National Education, Anna Zalewska. This is print number 3380. The committee's opinion is in print No 3403. On the basis of the article. Article 115 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 in conjunction with Article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) I propose that the Sejm listen to five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in the discussion on this point. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the Law on State aid to raise children and certain other laws (Prints No. 3387 and 3389). I would like to ask Mrs Bożena Borys-Raccoon to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u473	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! I present a report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the Law on State aid to raise children and certain other laws, print No 3387. The project contained in print No 3387 concerns the coverage of the scheme of the 500+ family of all children up to the age of 18 and the granting of this benefit also to children placed in nursing homes, social assistance homes, and the introduction of a three-month period calculated from the date of birth for the submission of an application for the benefit of a newborn child, which will result in the granting of the benefit with compensation from the date of birth of the child. The first reading of the project took place at the current 80th session of the Sejm on 25 April. The Sejm in accordance with Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred the above draft law to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy for consideration. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, after considering this draft law at its meeting on 25 April this year, asks the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law in the wording of the print report No. 3389. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u474	Thank you very much. You are asking Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki to speak. You're welcome. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u475	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Fighting different programs is of course the salt of democracy, but in this case, in the case of this civilization project 500+ for each child, we appeal to the whole opposition, to all parliamentarians to vote for it. It is a project that has in three dimensions to change life in Poland. First of all, it changes life from the point of view of ordinary human dignity, justice. I've been driving around Poland a lot lately and I've heard some stories. E.g. In Lubomierz there is a six-person family living in the Lviv district, the mother doesn't work, the father has a job, he is a builder, he doesn't earn much. Imagine how the life of such a family changed this project, this great civilizational change. There have been many such examples lately. In Ruda Śląska I also talked to my family with three children: a boy 7 years old, girls 5 years old and 2 years old. The boy has a disability, after receiving this earlier 500+ family could afford additional therapy and there has been a clear improvement, the boy learns much better at school. There's no... [[For the disabled it was no longer money last year.]] There is nothing to question this, there is nothing to laugh about, Madam, these are life stories that are extremely important, because they really change the fate of families. Recently, at one of the meetings, you told me such a dramatic story about a woman with four children: she earns 2,000 zlotys, her husband died in an accident. So imagine how this project affects the dignity of such families. It is a project that actually in a completely different way made it possible to understand the words "solidarity" or "state support" for people, for families, for children. The second dimension, for which I would also like to thank the Members of the Law and Justice very warmly, because this is also an extremely important dimension, is something that the international institutions point out as a major problem for our long-term development. What's this? This is unfortunately a demography. We need to face this problem, which in a completely fundamental way puts the functioning of our nation in question. Today, the World Bank's forecasts and other institutions show that we are going to be twenty-six million in 2050, some of which are even weaker. The European Commission, to which the opposition so often refers, identifies demographics as one of our main problems. Ladies and gentlemen, in longer demographic analyses it is difficult to make such a mistake, therefore it is best to refer to the 2014 CSO analysis, which showed that these births could be in the base scenario of more than 340 thousand. in 2017 and 2018. However, in 2017 it was over 400 thousand and in 2018 slightly below 390 thousand. So in a clear way, society responded positively to this project. Already there were about 40 and 50 thousand. children more per year than previous forecasts. This is something that is most commendable, because this gives us a huge chance to bounce back, get out of this demographic collapse, out of this one of the lowest indicators. We've got 212th place in 223 countries. I'm sorry, because I never like the way these statistics are quoted, but that's how they sound: there was a 1.23 child per woman, today it's over 1.40. [[1.45.]] So this is still far insufficient to achieve the so-called. the generation replacement factor, but we've definitely bounced back and we're going in the right direction. We can say that, as a result of this great challenge, our pro-family activities, the pro-human activities, at least to a large extent, worked. It has worked so far, and now, because often the problem was the first child in the family, we are trying to address it through this very change that I am proposing today. I ask the High House to accept it. [[Applause]] The second issue contributed to the very positive assessments of our excellent sometimes critics from various institutions, from around the world. It's worth listening to their voice. Just sitting here, in the courtroom, Mr. Petru, President of the party Now!, just a few weeks ago he signed a letter. I don't know if you remember that. I understand he's gonna vote no. As a result of this program, there was to be another collapse, another collapse of public finances. Again, it was calculated that about PLN 100 billion would be missing. Meanwhile, we have submitted an update to the convergence plan, the medium-term budgetary objective, to the European Commission, while at the same time showing that our economy is in a good balance. Macroeconomic imbalances The European Commission has highlighted countries such as France, the Netherlands and Spain, and in our case economic growth has been identified as a high level of sustainability. One sentence I said about imbalances, one thing I want to say about inequality. This programme has significantly reduced the level of inequality. Although the first objective was a dignity and demographic goal, in the broader sense of the word it is a social programme. It is a solidarity programme, it is a programme which in this new edition will further confirm this thesis that Poland's entrepreneurial and solidarity Poland does not have to stand in conflict with each other, that Poland's solidarity and Poland's entrepreneurial Poland is one Poland: our homeland. [[Applause]] Programmes such as this are building cohesion, but they are also building opportunities for development for our homeland, which is why I am very happy that this programme is gaining increasing acceptance also on the opposition side - because it is not necessary to criticize everything. Although you were very clear at the beginning: no, this is distribution, the budget will break, the second Greece. That's what your leaders said. That's what you said about our first show: 500+ for every second and every second child. [[From the deficit... from the debt.]] In this case, now you've got a little bit of water in your mouth, but also weird voices come out: 250 zł per one... Ladies and gentlemen, the Law and Justice offer 500+ for the whole of society from the first child as a civilizational breakthrough. [[Applause]] Here, the Member from the Modern or the Civic Platform - the Civic Coalition, from the European Coalition, says: for our money. Ladies and gentlemen, I have recently had the opportunity to compare two sets of data. One concerned the VAT gap generated by the Civic Platform and the other concerned social expenditure. I can tell you, the High House, that these two amounts are very comparable: [[Applause]] What we have recovered from all of your mistakes and what we have spent our resources on. Today, of course, there are fewer critics on your side. Today you're saying yes, but... Even Members of the opposition today admitted that when they saw Polish families on the Polish sea, they said it was thanks to the 500+ programme. I would like to thank these Members of the opposition for this moment of reflection, but also ask them, in that case, to cancel those voices that were on your side, that this is the second Greece, those fears on the Lachs that appeared, about bankruptcy on our side, because in this arrangement, when you are talking about distribution, about the threat of bankruptcy, and on the other hand you are starting to praise this program, there is some inconsistencies. Meanwhile, on our side is full credibility, credibility of this program, is what we care about. We promise and we keep our word. We show the sources of funding and allocate these resources to society and to development. [[Applause]] Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is a program that I have the honour to present on behalf of all Law and Justice and the entire United Right, a program that is praised abroad, a program that is now being copied. The Lithuanian Prime Minister told me that he had made use of this program. In the case of Western European countries, too, the prime ministers are wondering how to increase spending in this way on the family. Demographic problems are the problems of the whole of Europe. We want to solve them by supporting Polish families, supporting Polish children, Polish youth, means for better education, for holidays for these children. One family told me that traditional heating, coal furnaces, was converted into central heating thanks to the 500+ program. The 500+ programme is 6,000. Evil on one child. It's like being able to finance buying clothes for a whole year or a vacation for the whole family, or a ticket or a movie subscription, a theater for a whole year for a few people. This is a qualitative change. This is a change that we have proposed and which already contributes to better social relations, to reducing migratory trends, to improving economic indicators, to a better life for all Poles. [[Applause]] That is why, High Izbo, I would like to say that today we are convinced that, following these successes in the area of budgetary policy... These funds we want to allocate to almost 7 million children, for all children first, second and subsequent in Polish families. We see clearly after these 3 years that economic relations are changing, that the participation of people in the labour market is increasing, and the opportunities of Polish families are increasing. Therefore, I ask the High House to extend this program, accept it in an extended form, because it is a program that will very positively affect today, tomorrow, but also the day after tomorrow of the Polish nation, the Polish state and will build a very positive future for us. Thank you very much. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u476	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Urszula Ruseck, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u477	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the draft law amending the Law on State aid in raising children and certain other laws in print no. 3387. High Izbo! The concern for the family, its safety, its development, and the care of the state are the priorities set by the Government of Law and Justice and the United Right. A coherent and comprehensive pro-family policy, consistently pursued goals and intentions contributed to a significant improvement in the material situation, restored the dignity of Polish families, dignity, from which many families, especially the many children, have been stripped in the past. The shame for the Civic Platform and PSL team was the fact that many Polish children were hungry, as indicated by official data on poverty. Between 2015 and 2017, extreme child poverty decreased by almost half, from 9% to 4.7%. , among families of many children - from 12.2% up to 6.4% , and among single parents by more than half. Particularly important changes have been observed in the countryside, where extreme poverty with 12.1% decreased to 0.7%. The risk of poverty or social exclusion among children in Poland has fallen the fastest among all European Union countries. The increase in spending on Polish families is a proof of a diametric change in the country's family policy. In 2015, the total expenditure of the state budget to the families was 1,78% Gross domestic product and in 2017 they were already 3.11% GDP, which represents a 75% increase in the share of expenditure on family policy in gross domestic product. High Izbo! In view of the government's improving state budget situation, let me just remind you that until the Government takes over the rule of law and justice, i.e. From 2015 until now, state revenues have increased by more than PLN 100 billion - it is possible to include the 500+ family of all children up to 18 years of age without income criteria. The proposed change was announced and expected by society. It's a good investment in our children, our families, our future. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice fully supports the bill, counting on all clubs and circles in the Sejm. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u478	Thank you very much. Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u479	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! It is a matter of policy that we really differ in many matters and even argue, but in social policy there should be greater sensitivity. Even if we judge the programs differently, it is our responsibility to continue them. That is why we make such a commitment in the case of the 500+ programme. Nevertheless, it is difficult to understand why for three years you refused to give this to single mothers, single fathers raising a child, with an income of PLN 801 per person, and you gave to millionaires for a second child. It's hard to understand why for three years you haven't seen children placed in children's homes who have been harmed by fate. It is difficult to understand why you excluded children with disabilities from this program between the ages of 16 and 18 without raising their income. Now you've almost ruled out children placed in social services homes, but you've reflected, and you've tabled such an amendment in committee. For three years, we've been asking for this. On 11 February 2016, when we tabled an amendment to make 500+ also for the first child... [[The children were hungry in your day. Shame.]] ...to 226 members of the PiS against this amendment were voted by 226 members of the PiS, i.e. all of them. You're saying you only have money now, and 1.5 million dollars for prizes is what you had? [[Because if you're not here, it's money.]] For VIP planes, you had 3 billion zlotys? On TVP and Polish Radio you had 2 billion PLN? You had $10 million for the Smolensk subcommittee? I can trade for a long time, but I have limited time. [[Lucky for you.]] So it wasn't about the money. It was a mentality, that single mothers or families with disabled children or children in children's homes are not simply developmental for you. Even Minister Rafalska in one of the interviews in June 2017 agreed with the editor's thesis, who said: The opposition still does not understand what the 500+ family programme is all about. If they hear the leader of PO Grzegorz Schetyn, who argues that a single mother and one child should also receive money, then we probably confuse such a traditional program with a certain investment, a development program like 500+. The Minister answers: Right. Prime Minister! You're saying it's a prodemographic program, but I don't think you believe it anymore, because the facts are irresistible. You know numbers, don't you? In 2018, 13 thousand were born. children less than in 2017 With the current government policy, there is therefore no chance of a return to the 2010 level, i.e. to 413 thousand. births per year. That's why you broke the death record. In 2018, as many as 414 thousand died. people, which is a post-war record, thus the natural growth was -26 thousand. I repeat what happened at the first reading because you weren't there. Ladies and gentlemen! Why are you complementing this program today and making it really complete? Because the tapes came in, the president's tapes. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] When the million-dollar awards came out for government members, the president, to cover it up, went out and said that it would be more modest for everyone, and now the president, to cover the issue of his tapes before the Europarliament elections, went out and said that it would be 500+ for everyone. It's a pity, really, that it's only in such circumstances that single mothers, disabled people or children from children's homes will be treated like others who, even with high incomes, have taken 500+. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, we will support this programme in the spirit of responsibility. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u480	Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u481	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! I'm gonna cheat on some of our club's kitchen. We had a rather serious discussion about this programme, because the Prime Minister puts us here, all of us, in a somewhat awkward situation. The Prime Minister puts us in such a position that we either support 500+ for the first child or we are against the children. And that's not true. This is, as I said in my first reading, a false alternative, because from the beginning of our term of office, we have been presenting a proposal for a meaningful, structured, calculated program that would strengthen Polish families. Prime Minister! Why do Polish families have so few children? You can ask a question like that. Is it just about the money? Probably not. Polish families are concerned with safety in every aspect. Safety is also money for health care, it's short queues for doctors, it's kindergartens and the availability of such services. But he goes there, for example. for safety in the labour market. To this day, until now, Prime Minister, each of us, Members, have voted 7.5 thousand. Once, it took place 7.5 thousand. votes during this term of office. That's how much the law changes. Such an evaluation of the law is not conducive to security or stability, and this is also one of the elements. But that's what we've been talking about from the beginning: Let's give people, all Poles, those families who have children, and those families that have just gotten involved. and think about whether to have a child, whether to stand, whether to feel safe, whether to be able to provide that child with what it needs at least until the end of education, i.e. we are talking about 20 and 25 years or longer... We offered to reduce VAT on children's clothes, which is something that is 8%, 2%, 3% across Europe. We have 23%. Why? [['Cause the platform picked it up.]] It's just cliché stuff. We have proposed a definite increase in the tax-free amount, because it is in our opinion, Prime Minister, immoral, that the government, that you take the money that I need from me to survive. Until the point where I'm spending my money to survive, so that I can survive to survive my family, the state shouldn't take them away from me. And in many European countries, in many countries of the world, in most countries of the world, it is so that the tax-free amount is equal to the amount simply needed to survive. Why is she so short with us? We've put together a lot of projects like this. Most of them are waiting in your Marshal's freezer to refresh, extract and discuss. And we as a Kukiz club15 have always shown and shown that we want long-term security for Polish families. This 500 PLN gives a lot, because in fact children do not go hungry or wear torn shoes, children go on trips. Of course I do. But of these 500 zlotys, Prime Minister, you immediately collect a hundred and thirty-six zlotys in taxes, right? That's it. Let's not take people, and people can handle themselves. That's all we ask. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u482	Mr Krystian Jarubas, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u483	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I am pleased to present my position towards the government's draft law on amending the Law on State aid in the upbringing of children and certain other laws, prints no. 3387 and 3389. Ladies and gentlemen! The reverse pace of working on the bill doesn't slow down thinking. At first, let me go back to the question raised by me today by tens of thousands of families temporarily deprived of 500+ benefits by, let's call it, a system error. I am talking about people who have slightly exceeded the income threshold, and the lack of the principle of 1 PLN for 1 PLN excluded them from downloading 500+, even though they belong to a group of poorer inhabitants of Poland. Ladies and gentlemen! The extension of the 500+ programme addresses this issue. Okay. But I would like to quote interesting data from the report published by the Centre for Economic Analysis. The lab calculated what percentage of additional 500+ funds would go to the most in need. Well, of the richest 20% Polish households with children will benefit from this reform of PLN 5.4 billion per year, i.e. 30% the total cost of extending the benefit of 500+. And those of the poorest - 20% - are just 0.8 billion zlotys, which is 4% the total costs of this extension. Of course, no one will take anyone away, but the party that has justice in its name, I call once again for reflection. Ladies and gentlemen! Wouldn't it be fair to equalize the amount to those families who lost their first child from 2015 to today because of a small income threshold? This would, in effect, equalise some of the proportions of the aid. Another point I would like to raise here is the idea of the programme. I'll help you, my lords. To accept our proposal so-called. Evening, you can use some logic. Answer the question, why is there a 500+ program? [[Thank you very much, sir.]] Thank you, too. That's what the Minister has said many times. I quote: the program is supposed to improve fertility in Poland. If so, let us refer again to the report of the Center for Economic Analysis mentioned by me. Its authors noted that since the reform benefits mainly from families with medium and high incomes, it is also difficult to expect an effect, the impact of spreading the benefit of 500+ on the increase in fertility levels in Poland. Perhaps this argument will convince you of the government, although I doubt it, to seriously consider our proposal. Although the club of the Polish People's Party - the European Union of Democrats will support the proposed solutions. Thank you very much. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[The presidency includes Deputy Marshal of the Seym Beata Mazurek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u484	Thank you. Ms Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club, will speak. [[Will you be in favour, too?]] Patience.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u485	Dear Marshal! Dear Prime Minister, Minister! Minister! High Izbo! We begin the day with a sad statement that PiS cares most about winning elections, much more than prudent, wise, fair management of the state's finances. [[Applause]] [[One thing's connected to the other.]] Giving away other people's money, ladies and gentlemen, in order to maintain power, is indecent. Where is Minister Teresa Czerwińska, Minister of Finance? [[Voice from the room: He's working.]] The key law, the key law, was not sent to the finance committee. Ladies and gentlemen, are you aware of the enormous amount of money... [[Voice from the room: We do.]] ...and that they're reckless, in a reckless way, writing on your knees, giving away before the election itself? I know it's happened many times, ladies and gentlemen, but maybe one day you'll realize how much you're overstepping your bounds. In January, when we adopted the budget - everyone said that too - you thought that there was no money for 500+, there was no money for single mothers, for first children. [[Read what it says at the end.]] Even though the government has taxed us in 40 different ways, there is no money. They're not really here. Unless some manna fell on us from heaven and we don't know it yet, and, you know, you have some secret knowledge. It's still possible, of course. You have your secrets there. PiS is looking for a way to get more money out of our pockets. After 3 months of this year in the state budget we have a deficit of PLN 4.5 billion. In comparison, a year ago at the same time we had a surplus of PLN 3 billion. What caused this change? The weak result of the first quarter is lower than the expected excise duty and VAT. The lower level of excise duty is likely affected by a reduction in excise duty on electricity. As far as VAT is concerned, there is no more clear explanation. The VAT receipts are not only below the plan, although you said otherwise, but are also lower than in the same period of ub.r. So the VAT sealing process definitely ended with a failure for you, and the next few months are likely to be like this. The government isn't responding, it's still planning to make a sharp increase in spending. The first quarter did not yet cover expenditure on the 13th pension and 500+ for the first child, so the introduction of these expenses will make the situation worse. Another thing, ladies and gentlemen. The 500+ program is not a system solution. Of course, it has its advantages as a social programme, perhaps even huge advantages, but it is a social programme. Let us not deceive Poles and Poles that this is a program that increases childhood, because this childhood - we already have evidence of this - does not increase. Looking at the countries of the European Union, looking at how other countries solve this, it is the comprehensive support of parents to get back to work after maternity or father leave. The point is that they can put their children in a safe place, to a safe, well-organized nursery, to a cheap, but above all available kindergarten, available at any time, so that mom can return to the labour market, return to work, earn a pension, not just wait for donations from the state, but earn a fair pension. This is how the countries of the European Union do it. I think it would be good for you to look at how other countries do it, because it would really enrich our system and it could really increase the childhood, because, as one of my fellow Members has said in front of me, so that my parents... [[Time. Time's up.]] ...they could easily have more children, make such decisions, must have a sense of security. Parents' partnership must also be supported, so that there is a good division of responsibilities, support education, which today, as we know, is not important to you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u486	Member, time is up. Go ahead and finish...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u487	And where is this time visible? 'Cause I don't see that time. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Please do not lie.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u488	You're here to watch that time...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u489	There's no time.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u490	...because our system's screwed up...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u491	I don't know.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u492	...so go ahead.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u493	Ladies and gentlemen... [[Thank you very much.]] ...when returning - because I don't have the time displayed, I'll let myself finish, two sentences left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u494	Go ahead and finish it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u495	Today we know that neither education of Polish children nor health care matters to you, which you are very weakly subsidising... [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: It is not true, do not lie.]] ...and here would be one of the reasons why Polish families would want to have more children. This isn't happening today. 500+ is a program that covers your scandals, your social agenda. [[Voice from the room: It was already.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u496	Madame, your time is really up, so I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u497	Today, we definitely can't support it. We're all gonna pay for this. You pay, you pay, all Poles pay, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause, bustle in the hall]] Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, because we have an IT malfunction, I'm announcing a five-minute break. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Even the system cannot listen to this anymore.]] [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 min. 38 hrs. 20 min 44]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 24 of the agenda. Please take the floor of Mr Richard Petru, the Circle of Messengers now!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u498	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister Morawiecki mentioned a letter that I signed with other economists, in which we point out that five Kaczyńskis are incompatible with the Polish Public Finance Act, namely the record that says there is a fiscal rule. And I would like to draw the Prime Minister's attention to the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of I would like to point out that the 500+ law is incompatible with this article. This article obliges the government to present a 10-year financing forecast for this programme. And that's not on your show. I would therefore like to point out that this is a legal delicacy and the consequence of this delict can be the Court of State, says the Act. That's point one. [[The voice from the hall: Oh, dear!]] Please read the bill, not say, "Oh, dear! The second point is that Prime Minister Morawiecki was just bragging about what was to be financed 500+ and 13th pension in the next year. Ladies and gentlemen, he just didn't say that you wrote in the convergence programme: 15% tax on our savings from OFE - a one-time shot, PLN 5 billion in that the 30-time limit from which contributions are not paid will disappear, PLN 1 billion in that the tax office will define who is an entrepreneur and who is to go on a job. I would like to point out that these are all one-off sources of funding for one year. For the following years, you do not have the funding of these programmes. Sooner or later, it'll end up like Game. Poland will simply not be able to pay its debts. Minister Rafalska spoke today about demographics, data. Ladies and gentlemen, today was the new GUS data. In the first quarter, 6,000 were born. children less than exactly during the same period of the previous year. 500+ doesn't work, it's not a demographic program. In your governments, fewer children are born every quarter, and you have to admit it, not create any illusions that this is a demographic programme. Ladies and gentlemen, as this is a social programme, I propose an amendment introducing the principle that people who fall into the second tax threshold will not receive 500+. And this amendment, I will draw attention to, is in line with the expectations of Poles and the principle that we need to help only those who need it and not give it away. How's it going? On this amendment we can save 5 billion PLN. I'll be right with you, Marshal. And I also make the second of the announced amendments, namely reducing 500+ to the first child by half. The descent from 500 PLN to 250 PLN will save about 9.4 billion PLN, and this will be enough to raise teachers in the amount of 1,000 PLN. zł. I'm showing you a simple solution. Even enough, Minister, I look at Minister Rafalska, because there was no money for the disabled - for the disabled and for the teachers. And it's gonna be a test of real intentions. Either you're helping those who need it or you're helping those who vote only for you. Remember, too, that 500+ creates an addiction to these benefits. A lot of people... The Prime Minister spoke of an example of a person who is not working. But then, at some point, the children will grow up and it will turn out that these people will be permanently fired from the labour market and will no longer find a job, and will pat their whole lives in poverty because this program promotes this kind of deactivation. In fact, 500+ should be limited in its scope and should only be for those who work. I observe your High House against such nonchalance and distribution that is taking place here. And spending tens of billions of dollars on 500+ means that there is no money in the future for education, for schools, for health care, for the extension of hospitals, for roads in places where they haven't been built yet, for the police, which also requires investment. It's a really bad choice. Marshal, I am handing over both amendments in the second reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u499	Thank you. Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of you like to join the list of people asking questions? I can't see. I'm closing the list. Mr Szczerba, PO-KO, will ask the first question. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u500	Why doesn't this project apply to everyone? Because it's not a social aid project. Suppose a single mother is listening to us now. In her family there is 801 PLN per head. I will encourage her to try to stabilise her family situation and have more children so that she can get a hold of this witness. Marshal Mazurek, who said those words and was it not in the interview in February 2016 in Polish Radio 24? Prime Minister Morawiecki spoke about inconsistencies. Minister Rafalska, I would like you to answer the question of why you tolerated the fact that for three years 17 thousand. children from children's homes did not receive 500+ benefits, and why only after so many appeals from the opposition did they receive [[♪ The bell ♪]] He found it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u501	The question is asked by Mr Grzegorz July, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u502	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! During my first speech, because I made some comments on this subject, I talked about social workers who have a problem because they earn, I will remind you again, 1902 PLN on average per net person. It is therefore probably worth talking about how to implement this programme. With the help of those people who announce their strike, their strike action at the turn of June and July? They want to conduct this nationwide protest. And is it all going to be passed on to local governments so that they get some extra funds? So I ask if there are any reinforcements in order to build this benefit. And therefore, is there any idea here for the financial implementation of this project? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u503	Thank you. The question is asked by Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u504	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to ask how the forecasts for the extension of the 500+ family programme are based on the risks of poverty and social exclusion. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u505	Thank you. The question is asked by Małgorzata Chmiel, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u506	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to address the Prime Minister's statement. Prime Minister! We live in some strange, different reality. Economists prove that statistics have shown that there are fewer births and that these numbers are decreasing and that fewer children were born in 2018 than in 2017, and you convince us that the number of births is rising, and all thanks to the 500+ programme. Even though your economists prove that this program doesn't have that kind of action. It's unbelievable. But back to this amendment: for three years we have been trying to get this 500+ to belong to single mothers and their children. We are glad that you have finally listened to us, because children are also entitled to this money in care and education institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u507	Thank you. The question is asked by Małgorzata Płępek, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u508	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We hear about the possible strike of social workers who are dissatisfied with working conditions and wages. Such a strike would paralyze the payment of benefits of 500+, especially since it is planned to start the selection of proposals for an extended 500+ programme. The staff responsible for preparing these proposals announces that they will not serve the patent. Is the government aware of this situation and ready for it? How much has 500+ support been reduced? Does the government have any proposals ready for social workers to respond to their demands? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u509	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Elisabeth Stępień, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u510	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Minister! As a rule, all children are equal and should be treated equally. Therefore, my question is: Why now, why are you introducing the program to the first child at this point? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u511	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u512	Prime Minister! Minister! I would like to ask you a question related to the request of a group of voters who have asked me to do so. It is known that this is a benefit which today is unconditional, i.e. You don't have to meet the conditions to get them. Do you have the authority of the Prime Minister of the Republic to guarantee that this will happen all the time, i.e. whether this benefit will not be subject to any other activities at some point, e.g. like giving in to mandatory vaccinations or something like that? Are you able to just promise this to the Poles? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u513	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u514	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! It is assumed that the fertility ratio of 2,10 and 2,15 is merely a simple substitution of generations. Currently in Poland we have a fertility rate of 1.45. What does that mean? That the Polish people are dying out. You do not benefit from the solutions presented by the social side, you do not benefit from the solutions presented by Kukiz15. We can see that the 500+ program isn't working. How do you want to ensure that - because this has been happening for years, it is not only now, it has been so for years - this tragically low fertility rate has returned to at least this 2,15, which will ensure that the Polish people live on Polish lands? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u515	The question is asked by Michał Cieślak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u516	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! Minister! The 500+ programme has restored the dignity of many families. It can be said that to a large extent he has endured these shameful notebooks in grocery stores, which have been on the agenda over the past few years. He gave young women a sense of pride and satisfaction in motherhood and recognition in the eyes of many surrounding residents, friends, and acquaintances. I have a question for the Prime Minister. Prime Minister, is the 500+ programme for the first child a chance to increase the childhood of young mothers? Is it a chance for moms to go in this situation... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u517	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u518	...to work because it's... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u519	I ask you to ask Leszek Galemba, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u520	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Investment in the family is the foundation, the foundation of our future. Prime Minister! Is the introduction of 500+ into the first child by ensuring financial security also for the family, which is the foundation, as I said, also aimed at increasing economic growth and is proof that this economic growth, which is currently present, has allowed us to introduce this 500+ programme? Because it is our concern for the economy and for this economic growth that allows us to do these social programs. Is this what is reflected in economic growth? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u521	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u522	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! Minister! The Prime Minister said that this programme for the budget will not have any negative effects, because everything will be implemented perfectly, everything is prepared and well calculated. Therefore, I have this question: Why does this draft law provide for such restrictive action or intervention, perhaps it would be a better word, in case there are problems with payments? Firstly, budgetary expenditure is to be blocked. Secondly, there is a special mandate in the project for the Minister for Public Finance to transfer expenditure between budgetary parts if this money were to run out for children from the children's homes. Just what is the actual situation? It's a shame this project didn't go to the public finance committee, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I want you to be able to...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u523	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u524	...exactly assess. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u525	The question is asked by Monika Rosa, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u526	Mrs. Marshalkini! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! Do the Prime Minister and the Minister know that the most children in Europe are born in France, and this is because there is a huge availability of cheap nursery and kindergartens? The German example shows that money alone is not enough to encourage women to have children, so now a financial instrument such as Kindergeld is connected with others, such as leave for both parents, the availability of daycare, kindergartens or early education. If we're talking about demography, then why did you shut down the in vitro funding? If we're talking about equal opportunities, why are you destroying children's dreams of real, real education? Only good education will make it possible to get out of poverty in the long term. But that's not what you care about. [[What's a good education?]] The 500+ alone won't make the children more, and it won't even the odds. When we talk about poverty eradication, according to the calculations by Dr. Michał Brzeziński from the University of Warsaw, the same degree of poverty reduction could be achieved for PLN 3 billion. Money [[♪ The bell ♪]] You can spend... [[Thank you, Member.]] ... It's just different, systemically and better. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u527	The question will be asked by Mr Ryszard Bartosik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u528	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! First of all, I would like to thank you for all the social programs, but thank you because they finally reach the village, there has not been such opportunities before. And I would like to ask you the question: What percentage of the 500+ funding affects the rural environment, farmers, the countryside, and how will it affect each child after the introduction of the 500+ programme? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u529	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Stefan Romecki, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u530	Respected Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! I often organize relief events for poor families, for children of these families. I have to say that now my parents tell me that their material situation has improved and they don't have to come, for example. for Easter or Christmas breakfasts, because they receive 500 PLN. Now the government is expanding the aid scheme, so I have a question: why didn't you do it and do it under some income criteria? Until now, the first child was not 500 PLN. I know a lady who owns a company that says that even 10 zlotys wouldn't let go, she'd try. Isn't it better, as I said earlier, to reduce taxes, to lower VAT on children's clothes, to raise the tax-free amount, as Kukiz suggested15? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u531	Thank you. The question is asked by Jerzy Gosievski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u532	Dear Marshal! Dear Prime Minister, Dear Minister, High Izbo! Is it true that the introduction of the 500+ family programme for each child will reduce bureaucracy in local governments and reduce the costs of local governments? Is it true that the introduction of the 500+ programme for each child will improve the situation of young families, young couples who want to start a beautiful family life in love and look forward to the future? Is it true that this aid primarily concerns poorer areas such as Warmia and Mazury, where the programme was very expected? I am authorized and bound by my own [[♪ The bell ♪]] The co-habitants...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u533	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u534	...to thank the Prime Minister and the Ministers for... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u535	The question is asked by Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u536	High Izbo! Extension of maternity leave up to 1 year, kindergarten for gold, family relief, construction of daycare, kindergartens also by local authorities and students, ZUS contribution for babysitters, among others. free textbooks, Large Family Card - this is annual support for 40 billion PLN. The Prime Minister was skeptical about the 500+ program. What's changed? Where's the finance minister today so we know what kind of money you're gonna spend on, what expenses you're gonna save? It didn't work out, Prime Minister, and everyone in this room and all of Poland has... You, and your government, are responsible for the fact that there is no regulation on the price of electricity, and in this case there is a crazy cost in shops and electricity prices, as well as the costs of garbage collection and water costs for families are higher. What are the parents of 18-year-olds who study, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Who have poor teacher's salaries? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u537	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u538	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Prime Minister. Prime Minister, why are you kidding Poles, cheating children? I'll explain why. 500+ has no revalorization. When are you gonna make it? Why now? We've converted, there's 270 zlotys per child, because those are high prices. I'd like an answer when we revalorize 500+. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u539	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u540	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! I met my family at the market in Krakow... [[Voices from the hall: Ooh!]] ...Father of the family - teacher, mother - social worker. They asked me a question: Mr President, why is the government taking money from us, working hard, to give money to those who are not working? Prime Minister, I have a question: Do you believe what you say? If so, you should stop being Prime Minister as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: Oh, dear!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u541	The question is asked by Mrs Urszula Ruseck, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u542	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's kind of weird how sensitive the Platform and PSL state is to social matters when you're not in charge. [[Voice from the room: 8 years.]] Well, you haven't had a plan for social policy in eight years. On the other hand, my question concerns social workers. Prime Minister, isn't it that with the 500+ program, the minister, the local government got the biggest amount to support this program? Isn't that over 2%? ? Is it not so that this reduction, which is now, is caused by the fact that this programme will be very easy to handle, because the proposals will be simplified and there will be no need to issue administrative decisions, to verify revenue? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u543	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Teresa Wargock, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u544	Prime Minister! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In this discussion, your comments are that it is not only the financial resources that decide whether the family has children that are real. We know of cases where children don't show up in well-established families. Ladies and gentlemen, please note if there is a fashion for family in Poland. I've met with such a thesis, with such a bitter opinion of my daughter: Mom, in my environment it's more cool to say that I'm divorced for the third time than I'm having a third pregnancy. [[In your environment?]] No, in a corporate environment, in an environment of big cities. Prime Minister! Thank you very much for the fact that this program is not only money, but an indication of family as a basic social cell, as this basic objective of state policy, because family [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's important today...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u545	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u546	...it is important for the future of our nation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u547	Thank you, Member. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please address the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Mrs Elżbieta Rafalska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u548	Prime Minister! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for all your comments and for all your speeches. Maybe I will start with this thread that Mrs Wargock spoke about just a moment ago and which was in the speech of a representative of the Law and Justice Club, about family policy, about the policy pursued by the Government of the United Right. Very often we start this discussion by talking about money, and the first thing I heard was an assessment of the parents who said: you did something that seemed impossible to do. I got big eyes out of surprise, what's going on? Back then, 500+ has not yet entered into force, sir. I heard we changed the name of the department, which over the years was called the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Family Affairs, and we brought the family before work, because the family was the most important thing to us. [[Applause]] That's how we put it in. The dignity element, the value element, that's how we showed... [[Unfortunately, in the case of education, no.]] ...missary, many families are not pathological families, and you have been stigmatizing many families all along. [[Applause]] [[No, you're not. You're lying.]] You're talking about extended vacations, you did, but numbers don't lie. If we say that our government's expenditure on GDP has increased by more than 3%, and in 2020 it will be 4%. GDP, this really is a family policy that no one has ever dreamed of before, and you haven't even thought about it and you probably wouldn't want to have such a policy. [[Applause]] And this was also due to the fact that we cut back on the fuel scandals, we reduced the VAT gap. There's nothing to laugh at, Madam, because you weren't in the Sejm when the scandal was chasing the scandal, and the money was leaking out of the state budget because it was. [[40 extra taxes.]] We That money for social policy we've just secured in the budget... [[You're looting Poles.]] ...and we pursue a comprehensive social policy, including the most important family policy for us. When it comes to family policy at the first stage, which was a little hybrid in shape, which is the first social module with a profit criterion and the universal one without an income criterion, then you said that she was going to threaten the state budget that it was unrealistic that it was pear on the willow, and we were like, We did it, we did it in the first 100 days, and nothing's gonna change that. [[On credit.]] You're all jealous today that you didn't pay so much attention to family policy. [[Applause]] [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strzycharska: We are not jealous.]] I hear in a speech from the Civic Platform: it's hard to understand that you didn't give it, it's hard to understand. And I remember, because I have been sitting in this House for a long time, and it was difficult for me to understand when the income criterion for social assistance was below the minimum of existence. This has never happened before, but in your rule. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[You guys were in charge before us.]] It's also under Platform and PSL rules 2.5 millions of Polish children lost the right to provide family, small benefits, sometimes around 100 PLN, a hundred PLN. 2.5 million children lost them because they had a frozen income criterion for 8 years. And you guys are going out tonight on this stand, and you're charging us with these charges. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Shame!]] It's hard to understand unless someone doesn't remember it or just doesn't want to remember it. [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: Please tell me why there is no valorization of this 500+.]] Mr Petru spoke here about the Court of State, referring to the law on public finances. But, Mr. Chairman, it's an article. 50 of the Public Finance Act at some point, or in point 4, says that payment and service of family, parental, educational, social assistance benefits are excluded from this obligation to present a 10-year forecast. So that doesn't apply to the particular aspect that we're talking about here today. All you need to do is read the Public Finance Act carefully. Ladies and gentlemen, we have also talked very often here about the situation of social workers, the possible use and the risks of payment of this benefit. We are very clear here: proposals can be submitted online - so I think that no one will block the entrance here - from 1 July. We've only been filing paper applications since August. Please also do not say that payments will be made from July, since it is only from August that we can submit applications in the traditional version. The benefit will be granted from July and may be paid at a time when the local government will examine these requests. He will have three months to process these applications. We paid and paid very well for this task. This is a high-level assignment when it comes to payment. If the government accepts the task commissioned and receives money for its service, it is its duty to comply with the terms of the order and fulfil this task. [[Applause]] I can't imagine it would be any different. [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: What about valorization?]] Social workers. I keep saying, ladies and gentlemen, that social workers are unfortunately a professional group forgotten and underestimated by local governments. These are workers of social assistance centres who do important social work, working with the family, they are low-paid workers of social assistance homes, district help centres or other social services units. However, we must remember that these are local workers. In the local government, our own tasks are carried out, but if we give the tasks commissioned, we spend certain money on these tasks and it is not small money. After the introduction of the universality of the programme, the family of 500+ gminas that support our programmes will be entitled to PLN 833 million, of which 350 million for the provision of educational services, 351 million for the service of family benefits, for the service of the service of the service of the service of the benefit. 88 million local governments have as their own income the reimbursement of maintenance debtors. Ladies and gentlemen, this is powerful money, which also goes to benefit payments. If we give, we commission this task to the local government, the local government creates departments of family benefits and realizes these payments. He's employing about 19,000. employees, of which the social workers who support the 500+ programme are 186 people. The social worker's job is not to deal with applications for this benefit, now without an income criterion. This benefit is no longer covered by social services. Only in small municipalities could single social workers do this. I am absolutely in favour of these workers being well paid. We have given such a solution, so far unheard of, at a good start. There's a record that what's meant to handle this task, at least 80% these measures must or should be intended for the remuneration of workers. 80% measures for this task. And what's going on, ladies and gentlemen? The same is true for 500+. Self-governments pay us back, give us back that money, not reward their employees. I don't know why. Perhaps so as not to create differences in the remuneration of different employees of the same institution who carry out different tasks. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a strong increase in spending on the 500+ family programme, but see how this is changing. There's going to be a shorter conclusion. We've got requests coming in. on-line, the time taken to submit these applications is reduced. There is no need to study the income of family members. Limiting the cases of verification of the right to parental benefit during the period of training. Abolishment of the alimony procedure. Limited reporting. No administrative decision. Finally, I ask you to also postpone the period of service and extend the period of service, because those benefits which will be granted from 1 July to children who, due to the excess of the income criterion did not receive this benefit, will not be valid for one year, but for 23 months. Therefore, for the whole year or year 1,5, when applications are considered, only payment arrangements will be made. Single applications of newborn children will be accepted on an ongoing basis, and in this case there will also be no verification of these applications, as there will be no condition for loss of income. This is essentially a simplified procedure, so it will be much simpler to consider. There are still doubts about childhood. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister has explained this perfectly, he has done me excellently here. However, I see that there is no good will to accept the arguments that result from hard data. There were questions as to whether the witnessing itself was enough to encourage young families to increase their numbers so that more children would be born in the family. No. And we know that the family of 500+ is not the only element of our comprehensive family policy. There were reminders of the Little Man. Ladies and gentlemen, we have repeatedly increased our spending on the development programme for small children's care facilities. We've made a multi-module program. Ladies and gentlemen, this year on the establishment of a nursery in those municipalities where there was no nursery, local governments received funds covering up to 80% investment expenditure. Outlays from the creation of one place, which amounted to 20 thousand in 2018, increased to 30 thousand in 2019, i.e. expenditure on the creation of one place increased by 50%. But it's up to local governments to decide whether they're interested in applying to these programs, or whether they're going to want to keep these daycare centers. Although under this programme, which is financed at the level of PLN 450 million, there is also funding for the maintenance of each child. There was also a question of who would be the biggest beneficiary of this programme. In my earlier speech, I already talked about it. So far we have spent on the program including service, but this service concerns all local governments, almost 70 billion PLN, of which 40 billion were directed to the Polish village. The biggest beneficiaries are these regions, those places where there was more poverty, there was a greater number of children, and with these phenomena we also met in the countryside. Ladies and gentlemen, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I think this is the project he's going to vote for... [[Time, time!]] ...mostly parliamentary. [[Applause]] I see you're... [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: Revalorisation. Why isn't she here?]] The Member said something that just shocked me, so I would rather not refer to it... [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: You are welcome to speak up.]] ...because if the Member claims that because of inflation, the value of the benefit of PLN 500 fell by PLN 270, then... [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: I did not say: about 270 PLN, only: up to 270 PLN.]] ...mrs. Mercy. There are limits to endurance and the scale of the mistake, the stupidity I have to listen to here on this seymoral platform, really. [[Applause]] [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: I ask: Why is 500+ not revalorized?]] Madam President, there was a deflation in 2016, and none of you said that we were giving not 500 PLN, but 505 PLN. And there's been a setback, and I have accurate data. Within 10 months, we've been watching the deflation, which means the price drop. The prices haven't changed in five months. [[Time, time!]] Within 21 months, prices have increased... [[Mr Krzywonos-Strzycharska: Does your marshal have a watch?]] ...but the cumulative price increase between April 2016 and March 2019 was 5.2. So, ladies and gentlemen, how do you count, that's good, and if you don't know, don't say. Simple. [[Applause]] [[They're equal and equal.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I can't stand it when those who have frozen the income criterion with any low family benefits and have frozen this criterion for 8 years have not raised the amount of the benefit and 2.5 million children have lost the benefit... [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strzycharska: I am the one asking.]] And you today, with the high witnessing that we give to every child, ask why we are not introducing a valorization mechanism? Because we're giving you a different option. Because we increase spending on this benefit by 20 billion so that every child can receive this benefit. And I believe that the Member will raise her hand by voting in favour of this witnessing. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u549	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Bożena Boriss-Raccoon.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u550	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! Ministers! High Seym! I know that we are in time and I certainly would not speak - you know me - but I know such a slogan that the lie repeated many times becomes true, so that it does not happen... [[You're champions, you're champions.]] ...sir, I will raise two very important topics. One Member said that the safety of Polish families is above all work safety. Yes, sir. We have the lowest unemployment in many years. It's work safety. I'll remind you because you forgot to revalorize your wages. In 2015, the lowest remuneration was PLN 1750 and in 2019 it was PLN 2250. That's another little 500. [[Applause]] You have reached the Himalayas of hypocrisy. You ask what we will do with families who have allegedly lost their benefits that have not been covered by this scheme. Ladies and gentlemen, not just a lawyer, but a lawyer knows that if the witness wasn't due, you didn't lose it because you couldn't lose it. Families who did not receive 500+ under the previous programme adopted 3 years ago did not meet certain certain conditions, the possibility to get this benefit, so they do not have claims. But if we're talking about lost people, read: collected debts, then I'll ask the PO-PSL coalition: What did you do with OFE? My entire generation has been saving for OFE for several years, and some over 20 years. One decision, and you've made an effort to make this money we're putting aside every day become our money, so maybe you should give it back, because these are claims that maybe belong to us. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] Prime Minister! Minister! Thank you very much for this beautiful and expected programme, for its consequences, for its implementation, for the credibility of this government. I believe that this embarrassing discussion and even more embarrassing opposition questions... [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strzycharska: And this malice.]] ...will not disgust our compatriots of this expected, extremely positive, positive programme, aimed at nearly 7 million children. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u551	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u552	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Law on State Aid in Raising Children and some other laws following the work on this project in committee. During the meeting of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, the draft proposed amendments of an editorial nature and one which aims to include 500+ children in social assistance homes as well. This is, of course, a change that I support because it seeks to equalise opportunities among people at risk of being pushed to the social margin. I will stress once again that the solutions discussed today serve Polish families, serve Polish children. For many families it is a chance to develop, but for many it is also a relief, because eventually they receive funds that do not have to worry about another day or month. The government program 500+ is a multi-billion-dollar transfer of funds to Polish families. I am pleased that the current government puts so much emphasis on family policy in our country that it is one of its priorities. The Free and Solidarni Circle supports this project in its entirety.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u553	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. [[Voice from the room: Objection.]] Did you object to this request? [[I filed a motion for correction and opposition.]] The objection will be dealt with in the voting block, and I do not accept your motion for correction, because you were not mentioned in the Minister's statement. [[Applause]] [[I've been replaced.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] I would like to inform you that, after consulting the Seniors Convention, Marshal of the Sejm decided to move item 33 of the agenda: First reading of the Government's draft law amending the Family and Care Code Act and some other laws, prints No. 3254 and 3254-A, for tomorrow. We proceed with the examination of item 34 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the International Criminal Police Organisation - Interpol concerning privileges and immunities during 47. European Regional Conference, signed in Lyon on 9 April 2019 (Prints Nos 3392 and 3400). I ask Mr Piotr Kaleta to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u554	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Prime Minister, Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday a joint meeting of the Committee on Home Affairs and Administration and the Committee on Foreign Affairs took place, at which we debated print no. 3392, the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the International Criminal Police Organisation, in short called Interpol, on privileges and immunities during 47. The European Regional Conference, signed in Lyon on 9 April 2019. Ladies and gentlemen, I am aware that we are under a certain pressure of time. It was one of those laws that really didn't cause controversy, because it concerns, in its assumption, in its definition of functioning... We give the President of the brightest Republic of Poland the opportunity to ratify so that the proper and undistorted course of the European Regional Conference of Interpol, which is scheduled to take place on 29 and 31 May, can be ensured. in Katowice. Ladies and gentlemen, in short, this is a matter of calmly organising this conference, ensuring that visas are issued properly and quickly and that temporary immunity is granted to participants, and that this conference is carried out in an efficient and appropriate manner. Ladies and gentlemen, no amendments were tabled at the committee meeting, but this law is very short and contains only two articles. All I can say is that 28 Members voted in favour of the bill, there was no Member, no one abstained. Let's keep it that way with the other laws. The law was adopted unanimously by the joint committees. Marshal, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u555	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Kalet, Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u556	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! In short, in order not to prolong, because, as I said, this is a law that did not raise controversy, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice fully supports this law. We would like to see the President's desk as soon as possible, who could ratify it, and of course, that it enter into force as soon as possible, so that another conference, which will take place on the territory of the Republic of Poland, can take place in an efficient, correct, good way and that we can also get a positive, best opinion on the international stage when it comes to organising such conferences. Therefore, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice fully supports this law and recommends that the High House also support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u557	Thank you. Mr Marek Wójcik, PO-KO Parliamentary Club, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u558	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Civic Platform Club on the bill ratifying the agreement with Interpol. Well, we are very pleased with the fact that Interpol is organizing a regional conference in Poland. This is an important event that is relatively rare due to the number of countries that are associated with Interpol. Therefore, it is important that this event takes place in Poland. I am also pleased that the conference will take place in Katowice. Katowice is my home town, but first of all it is a city that is well prepared to organize this type of conference, which was expressed among others. organisation in Katowice of the recent climate summit. I hope that the infrastructure that we have in the city will be used repeatedly for various kinds of important international events organised by both the private sector and the public sector. High Izbo! This law sets out a number of privileges that are granted to conference participants. These are the privileges, above all, concerning immunities, immunities concerning persons who will come to this conference, but also specific arrangements for ensuring the integrity of baggage, the integrity of the documentation that will be brought to Katowice by participants to this Interpol regional conference. We believe that these are privileges that are actually typical in the event of such events. It is also worth noting that the agreement provides that all participants of the conference will be insured by the Polish State. This Polish country will provide insurance, so in the event of any unintentional damage involving participants of this conference any damages claims will be met. This is also an important provision of this agreement. We therefore support the adoption of this law ratifying the agreement with Interpol concerning the organisation of the Interpol regional conference in Katowice. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u559	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Marek Sawicki, PSL-Union of European Democrats. There isn't. In that case, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u560	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the Act on ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and Interpol. High Izbo! The Act concerns an agreement concluded between Poland and Interpol, which in fact allows the organization of an international police conference in Katowice in the Śląskie voivodship. This is, of course, an agreement which, in such cases, in the case of such important international conventions is in some way standard. It is based on standard records that have been adopted by States associated with Interpol. Therefore, it is in the interest of our country to adopt this law also allowing for the implementation of the provisions of the agreement concluded. Accordingly, on behalf of the Poselski Club Modern news is that we will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u561	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Grzegorz Długi, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u562	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Very short, it's late hour. We are all aware that the fight against crime at international level at this moment is perhaps more important than at local level, so that any regulation that serves to ensure that our services, our police, can effectively cooperate with other crime-fighting organisations, in this case Interpol, any such solution, which, even if it has any weaknesses, but in general moves forward, must be supported. For this reason, Kukiz15 will vote in favour of these solutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u563	Thank you very much. Let's move on to asking questions. The first question will be asked by Mr Marek Wójcik... [[And Mr Sosnowski?]] Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, I received information from him, signed up to ask questions. Time - 1 minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u564	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As I mentioned in the club speech, this law sets out a number of tax advantages, but also immunities concerning the participants of the conference. One of the provisions of the agreement is that these privileges will apply within 60 days of the end of the agreement, the end of the conference. Therefore, I wanted to ask, what is the reason for such a long period, but also, given that this is how we go to Interpol, creating this kind of long period, I wanted to ask, but I do not know if the Minister is able to answer me, if not, I ask you to hand it over to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration asking for a written reply, whether the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration and the Police are planning to take some action within a period of 2 months so that the participants of the conference can cooperate and exchange experiences with the Polish Police. Is this kind of action after the end of the conference, using [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u565	Thank you, sir. The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u566	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, Already in 2017, a delegation of Polish Police on the basis of an authorisation granted by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration declared the organization by Poland 47. The European Regional Conference. This was confirmed in 2018, i.e. since then we know that this conference will take place in Poland. Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the International Criminal Police Organisation - Interpol concerning privileges and immunities during 47. The European Regional Conference was signed on 9 April 2019. My question is which party asked to sign such an agreement? When did the discussions begin on this matter? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u567	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor... [[She wasn't exhausted, Marshal. I signed up, and you didn't do your job.]] God, don't yell at me. I didn't get any information that you signed up. [[It's not my fault.]] Neither did mine. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Mr Piotr Wawrzyk. [[It's not my fault.]] Please don't disturb me in the proceedings. [[Ma'am, I signed up here with an objection. What are you talking about? And to the question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u568	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I answer Mr Wójcik's question. Mr President, this was mentioned in the committee, and this question also appeared. The 60-day deadline is that... [[Then you'll be sitting until tomorrow.]] ...as you suggested in the second part of your question, meetings are planned at the level of experts not only Polish, but also foreign, not only bilateral, but also in the wider circle. We are also planning thematic meetings related to particular issues falling within Interpol's competence. [[Formal conclusion.]] As far as details are concerned, this is obviously not a forum for discussing such issues. On the other hand, I assure you that the 60-day deadline on the one hand is really needed, and on the other hand it is an international standard in such situations. On the other hand, as to the question asked by Mr Sosnowski, let me pass it on. The answer will be given in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u569	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 38 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Law on the Supreme Court and certain other laws (Prints No. 3396, 3396-A and 3407). I ask Mr Mark Ast to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u570	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the name of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights... [[...and to the question, and to the correction. I was signing up. Ma'am, with this case, I'm going to...]] [[Marshal, you can't do this.]] ...about the parliamentary bill amending the Law on the Supreme Court and some other laws along with the autocorrection, prints no. 3396, 3396-A and 3407. The Marshal of the Sejm, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, referred the above draft law together with the self-correction to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for first reading. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights, after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 25 April 2019, invites the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law. At the same time, the committee in accordance with the Rule. Article 43 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 The Rules of Procedure of the Sejm present the following minority requests at the request of the applicants: Mrs Gasiuk-Pihowicz's request to reject the draft law, Mrs Dolniak's request to delete the article. 1 of the Act, also requested by the Member to delete the article. 3, Marcin Święcicki's request that in Article. 3 words: they must be replaced by words: they must be considered according to the existing rules, Mrs Gasiuk-Pihowicz's request to give an article. 4th wording: the Act shall enter into force 3 months after the date of publication. A discussion was held at the committee meeting and the two projects were complemented only by legislative suggestions from the Legislative Office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u571	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Waldemar Buda, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u572	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club vis-à-vis the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on the Supreme Court and certain other laws, prints no. 3396, 3396-A and 3407. The Act, despite the original wording of the title, in connection with the proposed amendment, will have the title relating only to the Law on the System of Administrative Courts and the National Council of Courts, i.e. to no extent to the amendment of the Law on the Supreme Court. The entire Act consists of four articles, including two on inter-temporal, transitional provisions. In fact, it boils down to the deletion of what the Constitutional Tribunal pointed out in its judgment of 25 March 2019, sygn. Act K 12/18, in which it indicated the non-compliance of Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1a of the Act on the National Judicial Council of Art. 184 constitutions. On this basis, we propose that this provision be deleted in accordance with the suggestion of the Constitutional Court. Of course, we support this proposal as proposed in the committee's report. At the same time, I would like to present an amendment on behalf of the parliamentary club concerning the article. 3. He is now, of course, concerned with proceedings before the Supreme Administrative Court on the basis of Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1a. The point is to clarify it that the waivers of all these proceedings are carried out by law, i.e. it is as if they are automatically cancelled as soon as the proposed law enters into force. At the same time, on behalf of the parliamentary club, I would like to make a request to join the third reading of the draft law without referring to the committee the amendments and proposals tabled to this draft and after they have been served by the Members involved in the legislative process. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u573	Thank you. Mr Boris Budka, PO-KO Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u574	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We have already been accustomed by applicants from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to the fact that the work on the rules on the system of the Supreme Court, the National Judicial Council, takes place under the cover of the night. And it's hard to be surprised, because this shame that you're probably feeling somewhere, I'm talking about the lawyers here, it has to be so big that you're trying to cover up this elementary decency at night. Contrary to what has just been said, it is absolutely not the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. Why? That's because you don't even know why. Contrary to the applicable law, the Constitutional Tribunal has not yet declared, in accordance with its duty, its justification. Moreover, the Constitutional Tribunal in an illegal composition, with the participation of a judge elected to the place already filled, removed from the legal order another provision which you are now dealing with. In order to briefly explain what this is all about: since the dawn of history it has been so that, according to the Polish constitution, anyone to whom an administrative decision is issued, the judgment of the court may appeal against them. And that is also the case with the National Judicial Council. If someone is a candidate for a judge's vacancy of the regional, district, appeal court, provincial administrative court or Supreme Court, or the Supreme Administrative Court and has not been designated by the National Court of Justice, in accordance with the Polish Constitution, he has the right to appeal. However, until now it was before you went after the Supreme Court and the KRS that all the appeals were dealt with by the Supreme Court. In one of the subsequent amendments, you proposed that these appeals be dealt with in the case of candidates to the Supreme Court by the Supreme Administrative Court. And then what happened? When the Supreme Administrative Court raised doubts about the compatibility of your legislation with EU law and asked a question for a preliminary ruling, you woke up and your Attorney General challenged the Constitutional Tribunal's rules which you had already introduced and on which he gave a positive opinion. For this to be little, you are now proposing to delete rules that the Constitutional Tribunal has not considered to be unconstitutional. But what are you leading to? Ladies and gentlemen! You're going to a total short circuit with the Court of Justice, you're going to a total short circuit with the European Union. On the one hand, you assure Poles that you are a group of pro-European, democratic, valuable values on which the Union is built, but on the other hand, step by step, you pull out these bricks on which the pillars of a united Europe are based. Moreover, these pillars were enshrined in the Treaty of Lisbon, which was signed by President Lech Kaczyński and later ratified by the Sejm with a qualified majority, including the vast majority of your Members. At the same time, you violate the Polish constitution, because according to the Polish constitution everyone has the right to appeal against the decision or judgment of the court. You make a breach, you don't do that to everyone. Well, the judge, the candidate for the district court, the district court, the appeal court, will still be able to appeal against a decision that is unfavourable to him, but only to the candidates for the Supreme Court, you close any appeal. Why are you doing this? Not for some tribunal judgment, not because you want to sort things out, you're just doing it because you're trying to close the road before the Court of Justice. You know very well that you are violating European law, you know very well that you and Europe have nothing in common, what you are introducing in Poland are so-called standards. Eastern democracy. You could be proud of Putin, Erdogan, Lukashenko. [[They're proud of you so far.]] These are the patterns on which you are based, so we apply to reject this bill as absolutely incompatible with the Polish constitution and with European law. I would ask that this request be taken into account. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u575	Member Tomasz Romankowski, Kukiz Club15, will speak. [[Till it went down the heels.]] [[Your ears worked.]] [[Can I hear you louder? That's when you'd record it.]] Please take the floor of the marshal... Sorry, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, PSL - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u576	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats Club, I would like to present our position on the draft law amending the Law on the Government of Administrative Courts and the Act on the National Council of Courts, Parliamentary Printing Nos 3396 and 3396-A. Nearly 800 laws have been passed in the current Seym, the 8th Seym, so far. They dealt with different issues, but few of them were as important and at the same time as bad and unconstitutional as those concerning the justice system, and above all those governing the organisation and functioning of the most important judicial authorities in Poland. And there is a question today, High Izbo, whether after these unsuccessful attempts something has moved in Polish courts, as far as their efficiency is concerned, about the speed of dealing with cases. After all, all these changes were to be subject to improvements for Poles in the justice system. [[Ha, ha, ha.]] Today, after almost four years of the PiS government, it is worth asking this question in this House. Any data that is presented by independent institutions shows that it is quite the opposite. The chaos that you are intensifying - and today there is another element of this chaos - makes it much worse, it is getting harder and harder to get to court, getting more expensive to get to court, and waiting even longer to consider the case. Now we have a stage where the ninth, in turn the amendment is clearly contrary to the constitution, then disappears and comes again, this time with major changes. Thus, the parliamentary majority of Law and Justice, known only in seriousness and estimation, approach the Supreme Court rules, and the projectors, as usual, represent Mr Ast, who himself is always surprised by what he presents, believing in the wisdom of the President of his party. I say this with great regret, sir. The only praise for this bill is that most of the provisions that were openly and extremely unconstitutional have been disposed of by the last self-correction. However, the remnants of the original records were left, which are also, it is not difficult to guess, unconstitutional. What's all this for? In order to enforce the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, which stated the unconstitutionality of the rules by ruling in an unacceptable composition, irony. Now let us bow down for a moment over what this grotesque is carrying, which is likely to become a common law in a moment. Problem one: abolition of the admissibility of the appeal against the resolutions of the National Courts on individual cases concerning appointment to serve as Supreme Court Judge. Mr Ast and his colleagues at the PiS Club considered that since the Supreme Administrative Court, in accordance with the ruling of the Constitutional Court, should not consider appeals against the resolutions of the National Judicial Council in matters relating to the appointment of a Supreme Court Judge, no one should then do so. Have you ever heard of the constitutional principle of the right to a court, sir? It regulates the article. 45 Constitutions and Art. Article 77 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the Constitution states that the Act must not close anybody's judicial path to the investigation of violated freedoms or rights. Has it taken you long, ladies and gentlemen of the Law and Justice, to come up with this non-constitutional provision to ensure impunity in the activities of the National Judicial Council? These are candidates for general court, military and administrative judges who may appeal, and candidates for Supreme Court judges may no longer, sir? There is no basis for the proposed exclusion of the possibility of appealing against the resolutions of the National Courts in respect of nomination proceedings concerning positions in the Supreme Court. In conclusion, High Izbo, a procedated bill is entirely suitable for basketball and, by the way, for constitutional law exercises for students of the second year of law, as an excellent viewing material showing the law clearly incompatible with the Polish constitution. The Members' Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats is against this project. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u577	Thank you. The floor will now be taken by Marshal Barbara Dolniak, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u578	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! For the second time, the modern proposal to reject this draft law, this time at second reading. The designers, justifying the draft law, argue the need for swift regulation of the legal situation in connection with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of March this year on the sign. K 12/18. Only that to this day there is no published, as has already been said, justification for the written judgment. On the other hand, it is not apparent from the oral motives of this justification that the Constitutional Tribunal considers that the appeal against the resolutions of the National Council of Courts was unconstitutional. It follows from oral justification that it was considered unconstitutional only to transfer the cases concerned to the jurisdiction of the Supreme Administrative Court. So the question arises: What is the motive for doing so? As already stated earlier, the possibility of appeal for judges concerned by the matter of judges in the Supreme Court has been excluded. In accordance with the Article. 32 Constitutions, allow me to read it: Everyone is equal to the law. Everyone has the right to equal treatment by public authorities. And what is the case with this Act? The fact is, you've divided the judges into two groups. The judges of the regional, district and appeal courts will be able to appeal, and the judges who apply for judges in the Supreme Court will not. The chairman of the justice committee says that there is no authority to deal with these appeals, and therefore there will be no appeals. But it's not like there's no organ. The Constitutional Tribunal considers that it cannot be the Supreme Administrative Court, but that does not mean that it cannot be the Supreme Court. These judges apply for positions in the Supreme Court, and therefore do not form part of the ruling, recognizing the appeal against the resolution of the National Judicial Council. You're in violation of Art. 32 constitutions that talk about equality before the law. But it's not just that recipe. You're violating Art. 45, Art. 77 of the Constitution, Art. 6 and Article 6 13 European Convention on Human Rights, Art. 47 Charters of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, and finally Article. 19 the Treaty on European Union and Article. 267 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The quality of the party in proceedings before the National Judicial Council and the protection of equal rights arising from equal access to public service - Article. 60 Constitutions - must give the possibility to challenge the resolution of the National Judicial Council. The principle of equal access to the public service referred to in Article. 60 constitutions are implemented through equality in efforts to access this service, which of course also applies to those seeking judicial positions in the Supreme Court. The possibility of appealing to the Supreme Court does not, in any way, enter into the powers or powers reserved for the National Judicial Council or the President, because it only concerns the legality criterion. The process of appointing judges, like any other action by public authorities, must take place on the basis and within the limits of the law, and compliance with these rules should be assessed by an independent court. On the basis of your proposals, and in particular those contained in this draft legislation, you are providing for the termination of pending proceedings. Today you say by law, although it is already written in this project. Of course, there are situations where redemptions can be expected, but this applies to completely different cases. You create a write-off from the law as acting against the detriment of the parties. You're leading to a situation where you divide the judges into two groups. You violate not only EU law, for which you have such a relationship, but also, and perhaps above all, the constitution, and you feel that nothing is happening. For this way of proceding to some extent, we're used to it, because we have a law on the Supreme Court, always on your side, [[♪ The bell ♪]] fast and at night. However, this will not change anything, also with regard to preliminary questions, because the Court of Justice will recognise the legal status as at 14 August 2018.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u579	Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u580	Therefore, this is not the way to create law, because it does not lead to anything good. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u581	Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of you like to join the list of people asking questions? I can't see. I'm closing the list. Mr Krzysztof will be the first to ask... [[Voice from the room: One more person.]] There you go. Krzysztof Truskolas, PO-KO, asks the first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u582	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again in a twist, once again under the cover of the night. What are you afraid of? Why can't we work normally? I have no doubt that the ninth amendment of the Law on the Supreme Court is another attempt by the PiS on the justice system. The bill submitted will not implement the principles of decent legislation required by the law of a systemic nature. Once again, it is ruining the foundations on which Polish democracy is based and burning the already existing conflict with the European Union. This bill is nothing more than destroying the three divisions of power in Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u583	The question is asked by Michał Szczerba, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u584	High Izbo! The PiS is putting out a fire, adding gasoline to the fire. It considers that the express amendment will be incompatible with the principle of correct legislation and will be an antidote to the political problems of the PiS team, which are questions for a preliminary ruling by the NSA. It interferes legally with the fate of judicial proceedings, both at European level and at national level. The exclusion of the possibility of appealing against the resolutions of the KRS - the new KRS, the political KRS - which were taken in violation of the law, is also a violation of the right of citizens to court. This is a very bad amendment. This is an amendment that takes place before the judgment of the European Court of Justice, which, as I said, adds gasoline to the fire, while at the same time causing constitutional violations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u585	The question is asked by Marcin Święcicki, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u586	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This law aims to desperately avoid the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union on the appeal it has filed... the question for a preliminary ruling... excuse me, appeal against the decision of the National Judicial Council of one of the judges of the Supreme Administrative Court. In this case, the Supreme Court referred the question to the Court of Justice of the European Union for a preliminary ruling: Is the National Judicial Council a body which ensures the independence of the recruitment of courts, which will ensure the independence and independence of the judiciary? Well, you want to avoid that sentence. I just do not know if you have read the European Treaties in which it is said that the Court of Justice of the European Union is called to decide what is compatible with European law and what is not. And he's the one who can either reject it or not consider it at all. [[♪ The bell ♪]] but not our law in this regard. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u587	Thank you very much, sir. The question is asked by Mr Robert Kropiwnicki, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u588	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill, or rather its design, is more of a set-up than a law, and it contradicts everything that has ever been taught in the law-making manuals. The principle of rational legislators, the principle of decent legislation, it's all ruined. There is no rationality, no decency, but PiS-owska mockery of parliamentarianism. Because you're really mocking the Sejm, mocking the entire system of lawmaking. Today, you're actually filing a bill because this autocorrection came in about an hour ago. 12 a.m. 22 The Seym is to be proclaimed. This is really a joke. If you are not ashamed, legal counsels who have titles, so you are the law. We used to say the Seym was a PiS printer. Today, actually, if the president was more expert on the Internet, he'd throw it right in the Journal of Laws, but he's not doing well. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I still need a printer... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u589	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Marshal Barbara Dolniak, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u590	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me just remind you that this bill after the autocorrection has four regulations, two of which are extremely unconstitutional. So I have a question for you. I'll read two recipes earlier. Art. 32: Everyone is equal to the law. They all have the right to equal treatment by public authorities. And one more article, that's art. 60: Polish citizens who exercise their full public rights have the right to access public service on equal terms. Please explain to us how these two laws relate to your project, where the candidates for judges in the Supreme Court are deprived of your right to appeal. You're denying the right to take a stand in the Supreme Court. Explain to us which provisions of the Constitution allow the state to do so and how you celebrate two [[♪ The bell ♪]] essential provisions of the Constitution - Article. 32 and Article 32 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u591	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u592	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we have to raise key questions. We must ask questions about the compatibility of this law, this proposal with the constitution. We must ask questions about the compatibility of this proposal with European law, but also about fairness in public debate and about ordinary human decency. And I have to say, if we look at these four categories, the answers are terrifying. As far as constitutional compatibility is concerned, it is obvious that there is a contradiction, even with the article mentioned here many times. 32, which speaks of equality before the law. If we look at European law, we need to see Art. 19 of the Treaty, which refers to the Court of Justice. If we abandon the legal issues and address the issues of fairness in the public debate, you are still dishonest in this debate because you say you are improving the judiciary, and meanwhile you are simply taking over. The question is, is there a spark of decency in you and can you? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Get out of this bad project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u593	The question is asked by Marek Wójcik, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u594	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is the Polish government that is in dispute with the institutions of the European Union concerning the changes that the government has made in the justice system. Besides, this law, the ninth amendment of the Supreme Court Act, is also an attempt to act in this dispute. Therefore, the question is justified, and that is the question for your marshal, where is the representative of the government in this debate. Well, it looks like the Minister of Justice and the Vice Ministers just hid. You are aware that after 4 years of judicial change, you have led to an extension of the proceedings in common courts, to a complete paralysis of the Constitutional Tribunal, and for this Constitutional Tribunal you may even be ashamed of the state, to complete chaos in the Supreme Court. An example of this chaos is this ninth amendment of the law. Why do you, as Members of the PiS, allow yourself to be held accountable? Mr President, where is the Minister? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Minister should at least share that responsibility with you. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u595	Thank you, sir. The question is asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u596	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Law and Justice! You dream of absolute power and you dream of ultimate power. In this greed of power you are able to do anything. Not only to break the constitution, not only to break European treaties, but also to get Poland out of the European Union. But I have some bad news. The more you raise your hand on European values, the more Poles and Poles want to be part of this European community. In March, acceptance of Poland's presence in the European Union reached a record level, the highest since 2004, i.e. 91%. Poles on polyxit just won't let you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u597	The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u598	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen, once again, you are signing the bill that the brilliant officials of the Ministry of Justice brought and you signed. You guys are lawyers? By signing... [[You know that bill.]] ...under this bill, you should give your diplomas the next day. The professors who taught you the law are terrified of how you treat this law. I have a question. Is this the ninth amendment of the bill your ignorance, incompetence or simply stupidity? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u599	The question is asked by Krystyna Skowrońska, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u600	High Izbo! Forgive me that at first on another topic, but I was not allowed to speak, to ask questions, and, moreover, to correct the amendment to the Law on the amendment of the Law on State aid to raise children and certain other laws concerning false statements by Minister Rafalska and Mrs Raccoon representing this project. I would like to add that in 2007 the minimum wage was less than 900 PLN and in 2015 - 1750 PLN, and therefore during that period the remuneration increased by 850 PLN. And now going on with this case, I also wanted to withdraw my objection. Your marshal wouldn't let me speak. I also wanted to say... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u601	The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Jachnik, the Kukiz Club15. [[I wanted to finish my sentence.]] Mr Jerzy Jachnik is? [[I wanted to finish my sentence.]] You are not unique, Madame. There was one minute to ask a question. Please leave the podium. [[Your marshal, you wouldn't let me...]] Please leave the podium. [[I would like to say that you treat Members of the PiS and others differently as usual.]] I have a lot of patience and understanding for you, especially for blondes like you. [[Me too, for you... it was an outrage.]] [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Respectfully refer to Members.]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u602	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have such a question in relation to Mrs Dolniak's position. Does the right to court also give an employee of a company that is to promote e.g. President, right of appeal? [[You insult Members, and you have no right to do so.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u603	You're insulting me, too. [[You have no right to insult Members.]] Please don't interfere with my deliberations. [[We'll remember that gesture, too.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u604	It is here that Mr PSL said that 800 laws were passed, so I have this question: can one good law, even this 801 or 802, be established during this term of office of the Sejm? If you had elected the judges of the KRS in the general election, you wouldn't have a problem today. However, the problem remains and I do not agree with you at all. The piss looped itself by adopting such a law, the point is that it is possible to appeal to the court because it is a matter of judgment, and just as it is appointed to the President of the company, it is also possible to appoint or not to appoint a judge of the court.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u605	Thank you, sir. The question is asked by Piotr Cieślinski, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u606	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The regime of the Republic of Poland is based on the division and balance of the legislative authority, executive authority and judicial authority. That's what Art says. 10 point 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. The threefold division of power is not an invention of opposition, it is a standard of mature democracy, which Poland once belonged to. A KRS free of political influence does not exist. The Supreme Court Act is being amended with systematicity and a frequency worthy of mockery throughout the world. The judges double each other. Waiting for the judgment of the court was drastically prolonged, and today you are calling a judge of the Constitutional Court, Wojciech Sycha, who had previously been appointed to judge the Supreme Court illegally. Temida's supposed to be blind, but not lame. The Law and Justice are all that's left. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u607	Thank you, sir. The question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u608	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Game in the O.R.]] Excuse me, the debate is going in a different direction. Mrs. Marshal! You have no right to judge the appearance of Members and Members. This is a discriminatory and unworthy position that you occupy in the Polish Parliament. It's just not acceptable. [[Applause]] On the other hand, my question is very simple and is: Does Law and Justice regard breaking the Polish Constitution as a political and social standard?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u609	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. [[Voice from the room: Shame.]] I would ask the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Mark Ast, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u610	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, I did not hear any substantive question except ad personam. [[Not the same as the Court.]] I won't answer ad personam's questions. And you're asking about standards. If you read the justification... In the explanatory memorandum, we have shown what European standards are. E.g. in Sweden, the Netherlands, Denmark... [[We're in Poland.]] ...I will mention the first on the shore - the standards do not provide for any right of appeal during the procedure of the election of judges of the Supreme Court, i.e. I find here no violation, whether it be the Polish constitution or European law. On the other hand, when it comes to the decision of the TEU, you are still afraid. What are you afraid of if you claim that the TSUE will eventually pass judgment? [[This isn't our bill.]] You're trying to relate to this project that we're investigating today. There is a ruling of the Constitutional Court, there is a clear ruling and we refer to this ruling in the draft. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u611	Thank you. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, it was proposed that the Sejm proceed to the vote on the draft after the text of the rejection proposal and the amendments were served to the ladies and gentlemen. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. [[Objection.]] The objection will be dealt with in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 35 of the agenda: Request for a vote of distrust against the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Marek Grobarczyk (prints 3344 and 3365). I ask the representative of the applicants of Mr Tadeusz Azievicz to provide a justification for the proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u612	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to say Prime Minister, Minister, but there is neither. [[We're gonna call him off.]] On behalf of the Civic Platform-Citizen Coalition Club, I have the honour to present a motion to express a vote of distrust towards Mr Marek Gróbarczyk, Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation. Hello, Minister. High Seym! The fundamental reason for presenting this sad proposal to the High House is the deep conviction that Mr Marek Gróbarczyk, as Minister of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, is damaging the Polish economy. The Ministry led by Mr. Marek G grubarczyk became de facto the Ministry of Propaganda. His main activity was to create a black image of the maritime economy under the leadership of the predecessors and to make unrealistic promises referring to sentiments from the time when Poland was a member of the RWPG and our shipyards, disregarding the economic bill, produced ships for the Soviet Union. In retrospect, it can be concluded that the creation of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation was primarily based on political objectives. The quality of the management of the infrastructure key for this area is further planned. This can be seen from the example of seaports and key to their development of land roads, which, as a result, are so-called. two distinct resorts are now managed by good changes, and this is happening at a time when the world is moving towards intermodal transport, i.e. integrating its various branches. The current structure of maritime governance is directly linked to the tradition of the Polish People's Republic of Poland's Unions, and the quality of corporate ownership is extremely worrying. The companies dependent on Minister Gróbarczyk have become a post-election loot for people associated with the PiS, mostly people with low competences. [[Just like in Szczecin last time.]] It is worth recalling the law called lex Horała, which reduces the requirements necessary to sit on the boards of companies dependent on seaports. Attention is drawn to the significant increase in costs, mainly linked to the employment of new people, often from the background of the governing party. There are also expenditures that are difficult to qualify, rather unheard of in previous terms. An important sign of time is the purchase by the management of the sea port in Gdynia of monstrance. This was done in March this year - and I am surprised too, Mr Materna - although the scope of port activity has not been extended to new tasks. [[Applause]] There is also a great interest in exotic travel staff, to which a cruise around the world of the sailing boat Gift of Youth, welcomed in ports throughout the globe by numerous delegations of the Polish Ministry and its subsidiaries, the Polish Ministry of... [[Is that bad?]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, During the PO-PSL governments, a transformation of the shipbuilding industry was carried out to adapt the sector to market realities and EU state aid regulations. The piss came to power, practicing propaganda aimed at... [[Voice from the Chamber: Law and Justice.]] ...preparation of this accomplishment. This was done mainly by building a false image of the shipbuilding sector, allegedly in ruins. After the election, Minister Grybaryczyk aggressively attacked his predecessors, at the same time making a promise so-called. reconstruction of the shipbuilding industry. A key tool was the Act on Activation of the shipbuilding industry and complementary industries, commonly referred to as the Shipbuilding Act. There were specific declarations. According to Minister Gróbarczyk's Ministry, this law was to bring about an increase in turnover associated with the purchase of parts for the construction of ships by approx. 2 billion PLN. Employment in shipyards was expected to increase by around 5 000. employees. [[Voice from the hall: Secretary.]] High Seym! At the beginning of this month it was 1000 days since the shipbuilding law was passed. It is high time to ask the Minister where the billions and thousands of new jobs are promised. As we know, the law entered into force at the beginning of 2017, but it only works partially because the European Commission questioned its key provisions. High Izbo! From today's perspective, it can be held responsible that the Act on Activation of the Shipbuilding Industry has proved to be a complete failure and a complete personal responsibility for the discrepancy between the awakened hope and reality held by Minister Marek Grubiarczyk. We remember that during the work on this legal act, the Minister assured Members of the compliance of the contested regulation with EU law. We are convinced that the Minister is consciously concealing the performance of shipbuilding companies from the Sejm committees and interpreting Members. Many indicate that after 3 years the so-called. good changes are far worse. This is demonstrated not only by the twisted answers to the interpellations. This can be seen in examples, among others. Nauta repair yard in Gdynia, whose president, when selling land to the Gdynia port, publicly admitted that he needed this money to cover operating costs. The symbol of management of the Nauta shipyard, another sign of time, a symbol of management by people associated with the so-called politicians. A good change has become a knocked-down dock - overturned along with the ship. The decisions on the renationalization of Gdańsk Shipyard are, in turn, a declaration by the government to the total failure of the flagship privatisation of the PiS. After years, we're back to square one. The state is trying to save the shipyard in the real ruins. However, the biggest symbol of the divergence of government propaganda with economic reality became the solemn location of the keel under the construction of a ro-pax ferry for PZB [[Applause]] in June 2017 on the Vulcan ramp in Szczecin. This happened without the project and the sources of funding. The flat rusts and nothing happens. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] Another, already the third anniversary of this tragic event is coming. As one well-known Polish economist recently said: "Stepka is not a ship. It takes a lot to build a keel to carry goods or passengers. It's worth remembering, Minister. High Seym! Shipyards in real ruins, flawed government structure and fatal corporate ownership are not the only reasons for this request. Serious problems occur de facto in all areas of the Minister's activity. We talked about this in detail at the meeting of the industry committee and we were not jammed by the choir of many followers of the famous coach Jarzębek. May I remind you that Minister Grabierczyk is also the face of a controversial excavation through the Vistula Mill... [[What controversy?]] ...a powerful investment made against economic accounting. The cost of the excavation is estimated by the Minister at 880 million... [[But by Russia or by whom?]] ...to be covered by the state budget. [[Voice from the room: Tragedy.]] Experts have long predicted that they would be significantly higher, but recently a representative of the Gdynia Maritime Authority informed the public about the expected increase in costs of this investment by about PLN 0.5 billion. And this is just the beginning. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Terrible things.]] [[Voice from the room: What now?]] Now what? Minister Grybaryarczyk avoids public discussion about the purpose of this controversial undertaking. The Ministerial Kindersztuba, which we also experience at meetings of the Sejm, although this concerns another Deputy Minister, experienced the Management Board of the Pomeranian Voivodeship, which prepared an analysis of the excavation by measuring the inefficiencies of this investment. The result was a nasty attack by one of the deputy minister Gróbarczyk, who accused Pomeranian local governments of playing with the Kremlin. The applicable lawsuit is, of course, in court. The dynamics of investment in the Gdynia port fell. This is difficult to explain at a time when, thanks to the economic situation and as a result of previous investments in infrastructure, the port achieves record results. It is clear from the figures provided in the explanatory memorandum that only in 2018 the investment outlays of the port in Gdynia reached a level similar to those of the PO-PSL government. This resulted in the acquisition of land from neighbouring entities in economic difficulties and the addition of the amounts spent to investment expenditure. The Gdynia port as air needs to improve road access, including the construction of the Red Road, absolutely crucial for its functioning and development. [[That's it, very good.]] The government is completely failing to solve this problem. Perhaps this is the result of its faulty structure. The real investment is substituted by the Minister's lunar visions, so far presented without business justifications, and asking specific questions, in accordance with current standards in this Chamber, must face allegations of action in the interests of Moscow and Hamburg. And yet the existence of an external port in Gdynia makes no sense without the road back. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The success of Minister Grabaryczyk can be long - the success of quotes, of course - unfortunately, time constraints force me to focus on selected issues. That is why I would like to end by mentioning the Minister's cooperation with the Sejm. Members of the industry committee They have repeatedly questioned the quality of the materials prepared by the Minister. In general, they are deprived of key information, including numbers, on which the real achievements of the resort can be assessed. The Minister's replies to the interpellations made by Members, in colloquially speaking, offend the intelligence of the questioners. In order not to be literal, I will give you an example. On the question of the state-owned yard's situation with regard to the private sector, the Minister replied: "All companies in the group are currently carrying out many interesting projects. [[Okay, well, bravo!]] [[Applause]] Bravo. At one of the meetings of the said committee, the Deputy Minister commented on the proposal to adopt a dissertation on solving a problem that is important for fishermen in the following words, and I quote, because I do not use such a language: "The opposition has sniffed out an opportunity to accept a document." Of course, this document was later adopted by the Sejm body, Prime Minister, unanimously. Last week, the same Under-Secretary caused great confusion at the session of the Sejm committee when he for no reason accused the opposition Member of defending the interests of the port in Hamburg. The real intention of the government's representative became understandable when on the official profile of the Ministry there appeared a video with the statement of your undersecretary cut out of context as if he were actually defending Polish ports from a foreign agent. The video was later used as an illustration for subsequent fake news slandering the opposition. High Seym! After 3 years of government, it is difficult to identify the concrete positive effects of the activities of Minister Mark G grubarczyk and his background. It is mainly verbal, but leads to a waste of opportunities and public resources. Mistakes in strategic elections will be a long-standing burden on the Polish economy, especially on the maritime economy. I firmly believe that the circumstances described provide a strong basis for the Sejm's vote of distrust towards Marek Gróbarczyk, Minister of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation. Presenting this conclusion, I am, of course, aware of the power of seismic arithmetic. I know that the time of the fake news minister will not end at this session, but I hope that today's debate will help the public to get to the truth - the truth about the so-called. the reconstruction of the shipbuilding industry, the time of shovels and wasted opportunities. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u613	I ask Mr Krzysztof Zaremba to present the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u614	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! April 10th this year The committee gathered to examine and evaluate the motion for a vote of distrust against the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, Mark G grubarczyk, print No 3344. The reasons for the proposal were presented by Tadeusz Aziewicz. And the discussion started, ladies and gentlemen, very dynamic. I must say that, as a Member and as a member of this committee, I have not yet heard... [[Yes, sir.]] ...and I'm sitting in Parliament a little bit. Because I understand, if this were to be submitted, ladies and gentlemen, by the members of the group, which, for example, it has developed the shipbuilding industry. But it was submitted by the members of the group, who eliminated, on German order, for a job for Donald Tusk, the shipbuilding industry in Poland. [[Applause]] [[What are you talking about?]] That's what you have to say to yourself. And I'm sending you back, there's a video on Youtube showing the state of Szczecin Shipyard in 2011 - completely demolished, no fire protection, where tenants who had contracts half-faced, because they weren't signed, were afraid to run devices, e.g. Ceiling cranes, in the interest of falling on their heads. And the state-of-the-art paint shop, the zinc factory that Porta Holding built in 1998-2000, looked like the Soviet army ran over it. Even the antistatic floors were. And what did you do then? I'm talking to the Civic Platform. Then you decided to lease the estate. Who? Firemce Kraftport. Your clerk, Mr. B., is serving a prison sentence for overseeing the state estate entrusted to him in this way. And the company, let's remind you, had 5,000. zł share capital and dealt with what? Guess what. Warming buildings. [[Voice from the hall: Silesia.]] In Silesia. [[You're the committee's rapporteur.]] I say what I think is appropriate. [[Game in the O.R.]] Those arguments were on the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u615	But don't disturb me by your grace.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u616	Please don't disturb me. Mr. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u617	Mr. Meysztowicz, please don't disturb me. [[Game in the O.R.]] Don't bother me, or I'll be forced to call you into order.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u618	Ladies and gentlemen, while the Platform and PSL government was liquidating Polish shipyards... [[The committee's rapporteur is.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u619	Madam, please don't disturb me.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u620	...at that time, the German government was subsidising its shipbuilding sector... [[It hurts!]] ...in the amount of EUR 970 million. Moreover, during this time was the restructuring carried out, saving, among others. the yard in Stralsund - the president of this yard said clearly that these actions plus the decision of the Polish government to liquidate the yard in Szczecin and Gdynia are very helpful in the task entrusted to him. Nothing to add, nothing to say. The yard which had orders was liquidated and the yard was destroyed, which was obviously melted twice, because also by your coalitions today from the German coalition, I'm sorry, European - SLD. I'm talking about Porta Holding. And what your coalitionant didn't do today, you guys finished it. Because talking about the yard being scrapped when the shipyard in 1998 and 2000... Porta Holding has just invested assets in Szczecin, close to 250 million dollars. their own resources, were built new ramps and cranes. By the way, Prime Minister, Minister, you know that - when the new President came to Szczecin Shipyard, I mean, the SPP was called, among other things. he found documents such as the preparation of the design of the competition or the request of the offer to cut the ramps and overhead cranes. This is how the shipbuilding industry was taken care of. That's something to be clear about. By the way, you have also dealt with the second shipyard, on the other side of the Szczecin channel, the Gryfia repair yard, which you first cut off, introducing an investor who is today on the State Treasury pot and is bankrupt - I am talking about a company connected with the production of wind power plant equipment - and at the same time you have divided the territory, the territory in Gryfia, so that there will be damage in terms of technological processes, de facto preventing the operation of the yard. But that was not enough - you brought the Gryfia shipyard to the boat docks and cranes rental facility. And the shipyards around, these briefcases, associated with some of the Members of the Civic Platform, worked very well. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, your opus magnum - PŻM, Poland Maritime Shipping. What was going on in your reign? Selling ships after 2 years of competition, which entered the same line on the PZM ship. Receiving ships at a catalog price of $45 million, when you could have the same bunkered, that is, fueled, after sea trials, pick up the bulk ship for $10, 11 million, because that was the situation on the market at that time. And of course, after two years, this new ship had to be renovated. Where was it renovated? Friends in Szczecin. And he often walked halfway across the world empty. That was your concern for the maritime economy. I will pass up such a small fact, Prime Minister, on the occasion of PZM - 300 million euros have evaporated from the company. The company is powerful, she's doing fine. Properties abroad that have been sold for the cost of the company's legal service value. [[Voice from the hall: Business geniuses.]] And finally, ladies and gentlemen, shopping for $100,000. Dol. Diamonds, $40,000. Dol. cigars and 15 grand. A pound of lingerie from London. It was the ship owner's groceries. In the meantime, of course, the ship owner, if I recall correctly, fell from 5th place to 102th place. [[Geniuses.]] Geniuses indeed, I agree with Minister Brudziński here. That's what your government looked like. I'll go back to the yard. When the Senate was debating and proceeding on the specialty, the Treasury officials begged me not to make any amendments to the terms: shipyard, ship, sea transport, full sea transport unit. Even the ship couldn't be smuggled under that term. [[Maybe we can talk about the ferry.]] And as for the ferry, you're such experts... That's what the minister's gonna talk about, but I'll explain it to you. It's like you're... But then I... Do you remember that you applied to the Platform at the time, but I didn't accept you? Remember? [[Because I was already there.]] Where have you been? [[Voice from the gym: You've already been kicked out.]] You were already gone. Now the keel. As far as the keel is concerned, the location of the keel is equivalent to starting construction, if you don't know.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u621	Mr Meysztowicz, I warn you once again.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u622	Projects are being created. [[Yes? Where? Let me see.]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u623	Mr Meysztowicz, I am about to apply...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u624	That's what the minister will be talking about in a minute. On the other hand, you would want nothing on the ramp. With regard to the ramps and the reconstruction of what you've destroyed - it's been three years, but we've been able to reconstruct the entire infrastructure. The first thing your geniuses from Kraftport did was dismantle the hull assembly line - cut and sold. [[Materex.]] The next brilliant action was the destruction of a compressor plant built by Porta Holding for PLN 7 million. What's in the compressor room now? [[Ladybug.]] Your work, the work of the Platform in Szczecin - Ladybug. [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] Of course now... [[Voice from the O.R.: You were on the Platform at the time.]] You know, nobody is perfect, that's the first thing. I've been on the Platform for nine years, but it was from sleep. Professor Zyta Gilowska. [[In three years, you'll want to be here again.]] No, no. I voted against, and that's why I stepped out of it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u625	Don't disturb me, sir. [[You've been in Tusk's party for nine years, right?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u626	Unfortunately, nobody is perfect, but I've been at the PiS for 10 years. [[Voice from the hall: Fortunately.]] [[Voice from the room: Nobody is perfect.]] With Maciej Płażyński, yes, I was with sleep. Maciej Płażyński. Today, on the other hand...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u627	Member, please...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u628	Ladies and gentlemen, you are pathetic. You're the caricature of yourselves. You're the caricature of each other. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I'm going back to discussing the committee meeting. Of course, there was a discussion. President Aziewicz justified it more or less the way it is now. Mr President, all you have forgotten is that you and your colleagues have called me with threats so that I do not make these amendments to the special. You don't remember, you knock on the head, but I remember it perfectly. [[You should have gone to the D.A.]] Ladies and gentlemen, when I submitted to your then minister, Minister Grad, the one who was taking 100,000 thanks to you. zł per month for nothing, for not building nuclear power plants in Poland - asking why the yard property was happening as it was, it was an official on behalf of the Minister who answered me officially that the Minister did not know what was going on with the yard's assets because he was not informed about it. That was then the fulfillment of constitutional duties. Today Szczecińska Shipyard - of course, by the way there was a scream, resistance and screaming, so as not to restore its trade name, which has been operating since 1948 - carries out orders - 83 launching smaller units, e.g. Feeders for the Norwegians. The yard has been audited, including German banks, as the Minister will talk about today. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As I said at the outset, I have not yet heard a more stupid justification for the request to dismiss the Minister. I hope that this motion will fall and that Minister Grybaryczyk will continue to be Minister. [[What about the committee report?]] I'm saying what I think is appropriate. On the other hand, what you have done with the shipyards completely disqualifies you. You shouldn't talk about it at all. There was a German vote for Tusk - it was the liquidation of the yard. The French voice was a caracal. But that's another story. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u629	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. [[...one game with Mr. Tusk.]] I'm opening a discussion. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with [[Game in the O.R.]] [[You were also...]] [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: No, I wasn't. Learn, I told you.]] ...only the President of the Council of Ministers and the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Marek G grubarczyk. Questions are not acceptable as a separate element of the debate. Ms Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u630	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I will respond to the request made by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club to express a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Marek Gróbarczyk, prints no. 3344 and 3365. Unfortunately, this conclusion is sad, lame, lying, and indeed the discussion has proved that all the arguments presented by Mr Aziewicz can be undermined. During the committee meeting, Mr Aziewicz made an accusation, and I quote: the companies dependent on the State Treasury have become the spoil of the PiS. This was often done at the expense of experienced managers. Colonised entities can see a significant increase in the costs associated mainly with hiring new people, etc. No specifics, sir. In the youth language it would be: ble, ble, ble. Let me remind you, as politicians of the Civic Platform, a few facts. You talk about PiS Misiewicz very often. Do you remember Senator Tomasz Biesiak from the Civic Platform, with which another pride of PO met at dumpsters, cemeteries and about whom she spoke: the capable and competent senator who made a mistake. What was the mistake? Senator Bisiak, as head of the Senate Committee on National Economy, worked on a shipbuilding specialty. In time, it turned out that the Work Service company, which Mr. Bisiak was co-owner, received an order for the mediation of work and training for shipbuilders released from SSN. Of course, it was a pure coincidence. You have subjected to total criticism of our policy of rebuilding the Polish shipbuilding industry. Do you remember the Qatari investor who bought shipyards in Gdynia and Szczecin? You don't remember. So he arranged, organized this investor, among others. Minister Grad, Qatar Government Fund - Qatar Investment Authority. The investor was to pay 381 million for Gdynia and Szczecin shipyard. Ghost investor, about which Minister Kaminski spoke: in my opinion there was no real Katarski investor. The public opinion before the elections to the Europarlament was misled because already in the second half of May the Polish government had full information that no Qatari investor existed. Minister Kaminski spoke at the time. The cynicism of political decision-makers in this matter is appalling. They mocked people, their natural hopes for work and bread. The only thing that mattered was the immediate pre-election business, the propaganda of success clouded the interests of the state and its citizens. And what was that QIA fund? On the pages of the extremely objective TVN24 Bis we read - let's remind that it was 2009... [[Member of Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: We are talking about 2019 now.]] QInvest presents itself as an institution that represents the highest quality standards of investment and banking based on Sharia rules, i.e. Islamic law. By the way, is there another election for the European Parliament on the horizon? During the committee's work there were very often accusations on the part of the opposition, which can be characterised as follows: already and now. For eight years of your reign, you've watched the sea through binoculars, and now you want to build at the speed of light. Now that you have no control over anything, you've opened up a cage like this. The river of ideas. The average Kowalski understands and does not need to be explained to him, although some opposition politicians do, that investment processes take years and it cannot be excluded that the fruits of what we started today will consume our successors in 5, 10, 20 years. Can you guess who wrote this? As Senator of the Republic of Poland, I have used all the possibilities and means of persuasion and pressure for the government, prime ministers and responsible ministers to defend the yard effectively. The answer was silence, disregard and fear of the old lady from Brussels, European Union Commissioner for Competition Neelie Kroes. Yes, it was Senator Krzysztof Zaremba who justified his departure from the Civic Platform. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] As for the excavation of the Vistula Mieria it is actually difficult to say what the Civic Platform has in this case, because in June 2013 the Gazeta Wyborcza wrote that the then Prime Minister Donald Tusk called the concept of the digging of political measurements with the political trick of PiS. But it is your government that has allocated PLN 5 million to draw up documentation on the case. The candidate running for President Elbląg Elżbieta Gelert, as Senator of the Civic Platform, also founded a monument to the postulate. I would like to remind you that this was a copper shovel built in August 2006 as a symbol of the necessity for the excavation of the Vistula mine. The excavation is necessary, possible, necessary - you could read it on the monument. Behind the Vistula mine's excavation [[♪ The bell ♪]] 116 Members voted. Mr Azievicz did not convince Members of this investment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u631	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u632	In conclusion, I would like to say one more thing. Whatever hysteria you're going to have and what lying arguments you're going to use...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u633	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u634	...and that's how we're going to rebuild maritime Poland. And one more surprise. This work was headed, headed and headed by Minister Marek G grubarczyk. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u635	Mr Norbert Obricki, Civic Platform Club. [[Norbert, don't lie to me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u636	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition club. Our club and Members have shown exceptional patience over the last three years, asking regularly at committee meetings and in the plenary room about the tangible effects of the Minister and the newly created Ministry. Minister, your ability to do things precedes your ability to predict the consequences. The announcements, plans, less concern for the resources that Poland really has, which must be reorganized and built up in infrastructure. And unfortunately, the minister's work is miserable. In addition, the Minister, since he has declared this on several occasions publicly on behalf of the Government and the Ministry, bears full responsibility for the failure of key announced bill projects and the catastrophic state of supervised shipyards and Polish Maritime Shipping. For the last three years, you've had all the decision-making instruments to vote on every bill, financial, organisational and human resources. And what did you do with all this? A few propaganda events that you are now exposing yourself to ridicule in the eyes of public opinion and the maritime industry. Minister, which is the deadline for launching the famous ferry in Szczecin? The project hasn't even been completed, it hasn't even started. I'm sure he's standing behind it and blocking the Volcano ramp in Szczecin, an infamous rusty keel or something that was supposed to play its part. After all, this thing was created not on the basis of the ferry project, but as a demand for a media event. You also have full personal responsibility for the failure of the Act on Activation of the Marine Industry. It was supposed to activate, and I think it only generated traffic in the Official Journal. No company in Poland has ever boasted that it can be used and built on the basis of anything. It is not known whether it is compatible with EU law, including unreal to meet tax exemption thresholds. For this you certainly can boast not of your successes - the successes of companies that operated in the Szczecin Industrial Park, build, build and build ships. How do I do that? Just change the name of the park to Szczecin Shipyard and you can hook up to their work and prove to the world that it is one yard. It should be mentioned here that, in the meantime, the yard is managed - attention - by councilwoman PiS, every day a window trader. In Szczecin, like in the lens, the entire Ministry's infirmity is concentrated. This can be seen on the example of the largest shipping company, which should be a pillar of maritime management in Poland - Polish Maritime Shipping. What's your idea of this company? It is the right idea for the thinking of your political formation: the one-man administration, which has ruled there for more than two years. He's a creative shipwrecker to prove his usefulness. Not a word about the restructuring plans of this company. This is an anti-transparency and normality example in a state-owned company. In our opinion, it is pathology in the management of such a large company. You let that happen, Minister. Another example from Szczecin, the repair yard of Gryfia. Collapse, loss and balance on the edge of survival. Despite the declaration, the said PJM does not commission even renovating its ships in this shipyard, only sending them to Ukraine. Even the trade unions at the yard don't believe your announcements and say they've had enough propaganda. Finally, they want a fair concept of restructuring. ST Offshore in Szczecin - without large orders, on the verge of bankruptcy. Port in Szczecin, Bulk Cargo, dumps tenants. Maybe 400 people will have to look for a job soon. And a whole bunch of incompetent PiS activists. Voivodship councillors sitting on supervisory boards, their relatives. You are fully responsible for the state of this department of the national economy as a political family of Law and Justice. You've turned this into a family program on your own, i.e. you placed your activists and their relatives in companies and supervisory boards, where competition requirements are often in the foreground knowledge of Polish language. The only success after 3 years, which the Minister boasts, is that he finally oversees the ship's industry, because he had previously been the Minister of National Defence Antoni Macierewicz and announced the construction of submarines in Szczecin, breaking undoubtedly the propaganda vision of the ferry. The waste of public funds, unused chances of restructuring, uncoverable announcements, lack of project preparation, and the formation of harmful stereotypes instead of real concepts, adequate to resources and needs - this is a picture of the Ministry after 3 years of drift. It is enough for the High Sejm to vote on the motion for a vote of distrust for [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister Grabarczyk. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u637	Mr Andrzej Kobylarz, Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u638	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I wanted to present our position. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm not gonna use the material because a lot of cases have already been brought up here. First of all, I would like to say that I haven't been to the Platform or the PiS because there have been these allegations in such an important case, so I want to calm you down here. Ladies and gentlemen! On the way back, a lot of cases have been brought up. I would like to enter a wedge between your war, Platforms and PiS, the victim of which is to be killed today by Minister G grubarczyk. I would like to address the matter in substance. The arguments at the committee's meeting that the minister is one or the other... Let me give you an example of our ports where transhipments have increased by 17%. The State budget reached 65% compared to 2017 funds more. This is at the level of over PLN 40 billion. Overloads have exceeded 100 million tons. So I don't see the merits of these charges. Of course, if this is to be an argument for dismissing the Minister, then it is difficult, then you must vote in favour of the appeal. Another thing about the Vistula mine excavation. I really have a bit of regret for the members of the Civic Platform committee because of the fact that at the committee meeting you appeared, one of the accusations being that trees had been dug up under the Vistula mine. With all due respect, it can't be done between the trees. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Another thing about shipyards. Ladies and gentlemen! We had commissions at Szczecin Shipyard and I will tell you honestly that today it is difficult to build ships after what you did for many years in Szczecin Shipyard. I was in that yard, and I saw the tracks, the wires cut out, the pipelines. So maybe we should let the minister, give him some time. And I think we're gonna get back on track when it comes to maritime affairs. Minister, good luck. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u639	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u640	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Well, listening to the rapporteur's speech, listening to the bloody comments made by the esteemed ministers and parts of this Chamber occupied by the PiS Members, I have the impression that you have taken over the responsibility for maritime affairs and inland waterway shipping yesterday, the day before yesterday. Ladies and gentlemen! You have been in charge of this important area for over 3.5 years now, and it is impossible to work here - even if you were admitted by the marshal, Mr. Reporting Officer, half an hour - tours and stories of history. You are responsible for the last 3.5 years in this important segment of our economic life. After more than three years, 3.5 years, the time has come for a summary and do not refuse this second part of the law room to make such a summary. This summary of the activities of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Inland Navigation is taking place here today. We are talking about achievements, which are unfortunately as well known to Polish society as the Minister himself, which is practically all. So, it's about time I gave up my speech to present the Minister's achievements over the last three and a half years. Perhaps, first, the shipyards that dominated the discussion can be regretted, but they are not just shipyards. Let's go to the sea, or in other words let's look at the Polish Maritime Shipping, which swims in the Baltic Sea. It's particularly important here in the sea... [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Where? Polish Maritime Shipping does not swim in the Baltic Sea, only Gdańsk.]] And not only that, Member, the Maritime Transport Fleet. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: How do you not distinguish between these things, then how can you express yourself?]] When the Minister took the position of Minister... [[Voice from the room: Calm down.]] ...our transport fleet consisted of 102 ships, and after two years of your rule, Minister, it's down to 90 units. Its carrying capacity decreased by 93,000 at the time. t. Shipments of cargo of this fleet decreased by 1.8 billion t. It doesn't look very good. Now let's see the state of the fishing fleet. In 2015, we had 875 ships, at the end of 2017, there were 834, i.e. nearly 50 units less. Particularly worrying is the decline in the number of fishing boats, High Izbo, whose number continued to grow in 2009 and 2015 until the so-called. It's a good change. It is not very interesting to see the age of our ships, in the case of the coastal transport fleet it is well over 40 years old. It wasn't that long ago that the movie Dunkirk was filmed. It's a pity the Minister forgot to report to the producer, because there was a floating open-air museum, maybe we'd meet the conditions. When ships are old, there are more accidents. How many marine accidents have we had, High Izbo? In 2015 - 66... [[Mr Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: What ships, Mr Mielewczyk? It's not that ministry.]] ...in 2016 - 99, and in 2017 - 119. How much have we heard that Law and Justice will put the shipbuilding industry on its feet? How many ships a year do we build for Minister Grabarczyk? All 12 of them. And how many units do we renovate? In 2017, it was 540, let me remind you, in 2015 it was 70 more. Let's see what investment expenditures on maritime economy are like, fixed assets in coastal voivodships. In 2015 it was a total of PLN 2.5 billion for three northern voivodships, while in 2017 it was 830 million, i.e. 67% Less, High Izbo. Numbers don't lie. Why invest in the maritime economy in Poland when there are no elections in the Western Pomeranian, Pomeranian, Warmia and Mazury regions? If we add other expenditures, other than fixed assets, the decrease amounts to as much as PLN 1.7 billion in just the first two years. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Prime Minister's government. The Polish People's Party Club - the European Union of Democrats will support the motion for a vote of distrust. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u641	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u642	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Minister Mark Grybarczyk should be called off because he mainly deals with propaganda, not management and what is characteristic in this government, making promises without any coverage in reality. In fact, the entire Ministry should be removed, because it is absurd to separate the closely linked areas of transport: water, road, rail, which must be seen as part of a single system. We all know today that intermodal transport is a transport in which direction we should go. Probably the purpose of the chapter decision was more posts to fill, but it must be made clear that today the resort deals mainly with manual management, business management. The applicants of today's debate are right when they compare this Byzantine style of Minister to the actions of the Polish People's Republic's Unions. The symbol of this backwardness is a dramatic decline in investment, if you want numbers, please: 2015 - 170 million PLN, without purchases of real estate, from 2015 to 2018 - 50 million PLN, that is less than 30%. Of course, this will result in the loss of our coast's potential. Minister, this alone indicates that, unfortunately, you're not doing well in this position. Ownerial supervision means for you the distribution of political spoils to PiS activists. To this dramatic level of incompetence, all this leads to an increase in the cost of operating companies, and the Minister, we have heard it here, is trying to hide it all. Not only on the Coast, but throughout Poland there are stories about how you recruit, and that the only formal requirement is good knowledge of Polish language. Minister, I don't know if it's true. this is the competence best suited to the management of the company, especially in international transport. The managers appointed by Minister Gróbarczyk treat their positions as opportunities for such cheap tourism, just mention the President of the Ports Management Board, who in Panama welcomed travelers around the world the Youth Gift, a truly world achievement. Minister Grybarczyk has full personal responsibility for the fiasco of the Act on Activation of the Marine Industry and Complementary Industries. During the work on this law, everyone pointed to the danger or even the non-compliance of that act with EU law. Of course, the Minister insisted, but the European Commission did not have pity, questioned the entries, initiating further infringement proceedings for the PiS. As I said, the Minister is trying to hide this mismanagement and poor performance of subordinate companies. In order not to be literal, we will recall here the case of Nauta Shiprepair Yard. I'll skip the debt issue, but the overturned dock with the ship being repaired is such a symbol, Minister, of this incompetence. However, the company sign of ministerial policy propaganda first became really the ferry which the state... There was a keel in Szczecin, it was in June 2017, there was nothing happening for two years, and today is the next anniversary of the event, and just now one of the Members of Law and Justice said something like that, and his words indicate that it was about something to happen on the ramp. In fact, if that is the purpose of the Minister to make something happen on the ramp, then much more will not be done by the Minister, because I think all these ramps are either knocked over or there are such specimens of this inability. In the maritime segment, Minister, also some success. In the election campaign, PiS promised that PJM would be the pillar on which the maritime economy would be based. Today, this pillar is on the commissary board. It's in itself, I'd say, psychic. When it comes to fishing, fishermen are alerting about the agony of the Baltic Sea. It's not new, I'd say, information. It's not a new alarm. The Minister isn't doing so well in this matter. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Untrue, European fisheries policy.]] Dig through the Vistula Mill... Of course, in the Seym, propaganda, lies, and it was brilliant. On the other hand, when it comes to real accomplishments, we have the opposite of economic accounting, and what we do is a scandal. If we look at inland navigation, it's actually fair to ask, anyone has seen, anyone knows. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Bon moty, bon moty.]] The reasons for calling off Minister G grubarczyk are, moreover, incompetence, guyhood, manual control, no effects. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And, of course, it harms the Polish state and the economy, and if we were to ask about the most important area in which the greatest achievements are, we would have to ask the Minister whether it was fun to party for public funds during these three years, Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u643	Thank you, sir. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Circle of Members of Free and Solidarni. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u644	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Minister! On behalf of the Members' Circle of Free and Solidarni, I present my position on the request for a vote of distrust to the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, Mr. Marek Grobarczyk. This proposal is completely unfounded in my opinion, as also confirmed by the lively discussion at the committee meeting. It was filled with empty slogans and generals. Meanwhile, Minister Grybarczyk, as Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, along with his deputies, is doing everything they can to rebuild three maritime sectors. And since we're talking about rebuilding, it means that once this industry has worked well and at a good level. Unfortunately, when China and South Korea, today's power in the shipbuilding industry, introduced systems for reducing significant costs for the shipbuilding industry, e.g. By creating a cascade support system for steel producers, they introduced reliefs in customs import tariffs for offshore ship equipment or so-called. export discounts for exported ships, and above all they developed ship education, starting from higher by technical means to professional ones, it was in Poland, under the government of the PO-PSL coalition exactly the opposite. It is hard to believe that the rulers of that time did not see it, and only to please EU politicians destroyed the entire branch of functioning Polish industry. I am an inhabitant of Gdynia and, as I have already mentioned many times, I can see exactly what the negative effects of the decommissioning of the maritime economy have been. Although the government of PO-PSL reduced the Ministry of Economy only to the department today thanks to the work and expertise of Minister Stocznia Szczecińska operates and will build large units. Her power is being rebuilt. Except you can't make up for all the neglect in three years. There are many good solutions to the ministry. Rebuilding of shipbuilding industry, raising the value of Polish ports, broadly understood shipping, changes in fisheries and maritime education. They all testify to the professionalism, experience and knowledge of Minister Gróbarczyk, and that his work and projects serve the development of the industry. About Free and Solidarni will vote against the vote of distrust against Minister Marek Gróbarczyk. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u645	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Now, please take the floor of the Minister of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, Mr Mark G grubarczyk. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u646	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Law and Justice went to elections with the motto of rebuilding the shipbuilding industry, the maritime economy, the whole industry, which after many years was in a terrible situation. This is what we promised the voters and our actions are directly linked to the programme that is being implemented. This main assumption was the appointment of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping, with particular regard to the latter part of inland waterway transport, which after so many years ceased to exist in Poland. This ministry, it must be recalled, already existed in 2007, but the decision, among others. Mr Azievicz has been eliminated. Ladies and gentlemen! I will not dwell on some, first of all, some of the allegations that are quite bizarre and straightforward, can be said to be false. I would just like to quote some arguments from our work, especially those that are most important to us. This is primarily a policy related to the development of ports. 40 billion revenue to the budget represents around 10% total GDP, and that's over 50% more than the Platform and PSL governments. [[Applause]] The ports that overloaded over 100 million tonnes this year are a clear signal for the functioning of this economy and the direction in which it needs to develop. PLN 1200 million allocated to deepen the water track Szczecin - Świnoujście. Let me just remind you that during your time this track was discussed and Prime Minister Tusk asked for arguments that it was necessary. It is needed and it will just be done. More than 7 million to rebuild the northern part of the Port of Gdansk is another element associated with the expansion of the ports. Almost 900 million PLN on - as has already been mentioned - a necessary, necessary excavation of the Vistula mine, which will also be done. 200 million to build a new ferry terminal in the port of Gdynia, turntable. The reconstruction of railway tracks is part of the development of the port in Gdynia. And almost 200 million to rebuild the port in Ustka. It is a port entirely left by the State, which is an extremely important element in this fishing economy. You accuse me that there are no investments in ports, and yet the central port, the external port or container port, the container terminal in Świnoujście, which will be implemented on the basis of the same proposal in a moment, are indicated as unnecessary investments. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Scandal.]] That is, total confusion and, above all, confusion with regard to your argument. [[Hamburg is.]] On the one hand, you are accusing us of developing a port, and on the other hand, you want to inhibit that development. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: In Hamburg is also in Berlin...]] Ladies and gentlemen, the next element is, of course, personal charges. The great managers you've been talking about and the bad change. This bad change has generated four times more profits in ports and has increased these transhipments to 100 million tons. I think that's the most important argument for what people have been admitted to work. But we also need to remind you of the situation of Polish shipowners. First of all, it is about the Polish Baltic Shipping, which was intended by the state for privatisation. There were probably three attempts to privatize. The final amount for which this was valued is PLN 30 million. Today, this company is worth about 600 million PLN and has huge development prospects. [[Applause]] [[But that's the conclusion.]] PŻM, Polish Maritime Shipping Company, Polish shipping company, the most important Polish shipping company we inherited from the country with a loss of PLN 700 million. The director himself resigned and the employee council resigned. Today, the Commissioner, the Commission's Board of Directors, which operates in the company, has led to a stable situation in this company. In a moment, this year, this company will begin to make profits and regain the investment opportunities needed to build ships. Ladies and gentlemen, the question of the Vistula mine excavation is completely incomprehensible to me. On the one hand, you are voting for a specialist who is about to speed up the construction of the canal by the Vistula Mill, and on the other hand, you want to cancel me for it. It's hard to understand. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, this investment is extremely important. Everyone is aware that this is the last seawater that has no access to the full sea. We create development opportunities for Eastern Poland. But it is worth quoting here, basically two quotes, which fell on account of this investment. One: Digging through measurement is a purely political initiative. Building a channel will cause damage to the environmental system. And second quote: The construction of the excavation will never return and will have a disastrous impact on the environment of this region. One statement was made by the governor of the Kaliningrad region and the other by one of the local government of the Pomeranian Voivodeship. And here again, ladies and gentlemen, we ask you who you're playing with. With the Polish government or Moscow? You have to answer that question. [[Applause]] [[Bravo.]] Of course, the shipbuilding industry is extremely important to us. The shipbuilding industry or those shipyards that we inherited from the country were named barns by one of your specialists. He said, "They want to build ships in the barns." In the barns we begin and we will build these ships step by step so that they take up the positions they had before the time of the government. We want to restore steel production to 500,000. a. Today it's about 25,000. T, which is 20 times less. And we have a solid basis for this, because this is what the shipbuilding industry in Poland looked like. That's what this bill is for. Anyone who wants to build ships can benefit from it. This industry is and has been extremely fragmented, multimillion-dollarly indebted. The Navy Yard was in the hands of a syndicate. It's the odium that's on the Civic Platform and the PSL. It's impossible to try to shed this guilt, but it's already been rebuilt. Today the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping, Minister, I am responsible for this industry. Not some fund from Qatar or the Caymans. Today, the Minister is responsible for this, and here I declare to you that this industry will be rebuilt. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] The first element is the location of this keel, which begins to rebuild mainly Polish ferries. These shuttles need around 10 in Poland, i.e. approx. 10 and 15 years of operation of the yard in a completely new technology, on a very competitive market, which is primarily needed by Polish shipowners. Of course, you can use this solution, which you prefer - buy trams in South Korea - or build it in Polish shipyards. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] So we will build it in Polish shipyards. [[Applause]] [[...you will bring back from Russia.]] Of course, we're behind schedule. I resent that we're behind schedule. Today, the market looks like most shipyards have problems in terms of functioning. We have made a great deal of these mistakes and we will probably still make them, but one thing is most important for us: not to stop halfway and implement precisely this reconstruction programme of the yard and, above all, that these shipyards simply operate in a market way. They have every reason to function like this. Gryfia Shipyard this year for the first time achieved a positive financial result. Gdańsk Shipyard was redeemed from a foreign investor. The Navy Yard has been redeemed from the syndicate. This is a good fortune teller and, above all, a good start when it comes to the operation of these shipyards. Inland shipping. This topic is extremely difficult for me when it comes to accusations, because when I came to the ministry, to these logs, because there was no ministry, there was one department, two people were dealing with 3,000. km of waterways in Poland. There are so many roads in Poland, but only 0.7% transport is carried out by water, at up to 25 in the Netherlands. That's what it looks like today. Ladies and gentlemen, in your time, it was decided to liquidate IWT... [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Scandal!]] ...because there was no need for them to function. The first element that we set up and, above all, implemented was the adoption of the AGN Convention, an international convention which, on the one hand, allows us to enter the European inland waterway network and, on the other hand, opens up opportunities for financing and obtaining funding from EU funds. Could we have used these funds? In your proposal, you are talking about the huge achievement of Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz, who has signed an agreement with Germany, thus blocking the possibility of using EU funds. This waterway is assigned to the third class of navigability, so it excludes us completely from the possibility of operating inland waterway based on European waterways. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Scandal!]] I'm sure this situation will be resolved. We've already negotiated with the German side. Lower Odra has already been entered in the corridor of the European Baltic - North Sea. Currently, the upper Oder is also included in this corridor. The investments that have been made. For 20 years, a water level in Malczyce has been built with the assumption that it will be undressed because it does not grow. This investment has been completed. This year the power plant, which was built on this water level, is starting. [[Applause]] Others are built in Libya, in Ścinawa - it is on Oder. The construction on the Vistula River began in Sieruva. The feasibility study carried out by the port in Gdańsk at the end of this year will result in a feasibility study for the whole Oder and its connection through the Dnieper system with the Black Sea. The second element in the case of the Oder - this will also be completed in the middle of this year - is the feasibility study and the construction of the whole shape in terms of investment. Of course, I will no longer be discussing the issue of education, because mizeria or the elimination of schools, especially secondary schools, in inland waterway transport is a huge gap in education. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Crime!]] But we managed to establish the previously decommissioned Inland Navigation Technician in Wroclaw. It's been a year. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] We've already had our first year, and this yearbook is definitely gonna continue. I'm sure there'll be new recruits and a lot of interest in this school. Ladies and gentlemen, the last element that I'm being accused of is the Independence Cruise. I think that's the worst thing that could happen. Besides, you called the training ship, the fregata, the Youth Gift, a yacht. All sailors who study at sea schools, on yachts - that's the idea - are trained and qualified. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: But ships confuse ships, boats.]] But the worst part is... [[♪ The bell ♪]] The attempt to discredit this story, which began in 1934, because this year, Dar Pomerania was the first to go out, celebrating Poland, typing it on the map of the world, showing how strong Poland is. We continued this on the 100th anniversary of regaining independence.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u647	Thank you very much, Minister. Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Marek G grubarczyk: This is probably the biggest charge because you discredited nearly a thousand young people who took part in this cruise. [[Applause]] [[Exactly.]] [[Voice from the room: Shame! Disgraceful!]] [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Scandal!]] Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the President of the Council of Ministers of Mr Mateusz Morawiecki. You're welcome. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u648	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Indeed, it is hard to imagine a more accurate term for what was heard here today than those famous Polish proverbs that the devil wore an ornament and a tail for Mass. [[Applause]] Those who, in fact, are most responsible for the liquidation of the Polish maritime industry, the Polish shipbuilding industry, in the years III of the Republic of Poland, took part in the removal of Minister Gróbarczyk. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] If you really want to talk about it, think about it, ask the experts how long it takes to rebuild the tissue that's been destroyed. I saw it in Szczecin, big ramps, big cranes... [[Voice from the room: 20 years.]] ...cut into scrap metal, docks turned into parking lots. After all, you are well aware that it cannot be done in a year, 2 or 3 years, that it is a reconstruction of the industry de facto since attitudes, it is bringing in professionals who went to shipyards in Norway, the Netherlands, Germany and spread around the world. So the fact that Minister Grybaryczyk undertook this task, you identified in your request, making it a political decision, you claim that the political decision was the appointment of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Shipping. Well, what was it supposed to be? Whose decision was it supposed to be? [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: This is politics. That's right, bravo. State policy.]] Of course it was a political decision, as it was a political decision to liquidate the shipbuilding industry, to liquidate the port industry. Just now, Mr Zaremba told me something that I remember perfectly well, about the years 2008 to 2009, when it was indeed 9,000. People went to the brink because that's what your compensation bill was all about, de facto the liquidation bill. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Strzeżenie dowsze...]] And let's look at what our competitors and partners did at the same time, how the Germans, the French, were able to deal with it. The Germans, the Dutch, the French saved their shipyards by changing their profile, changing their specialization to shipyards that build highly specialised units, e.g. to place cables at the bottom of the oceans and such units. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: We were selling out.]] Not more than two years ago, France nationalized its Saint Nazaire shipyard just to save her. [[Applause]] [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Of course. Yes.]] If you have the imagination of how long it takes to rebuild the shipbuilding industry, give time to Minister Gróbaryczyk, these things are happening, big investments on which decisions were made by Minister Gróbaryczyk. [[They fell over.]] I would like to quote a few of these basic figures here to the High House, because they are important. One of them was mentioned by Minister Grabierczyk. The end of 2018 in the history of reloading in Polish ports is over 100 million tons of goods. Compared, of course, to other shipyards in the Baltic, this means that we have a chance in a moment to be one of the basic ports in this part of the world, because in 2015 it was more than 30%. less. Definite growth. I would like to say that one of the actors of economic success, success of the entire Polish economy, as well as tax sealing is also Minister Grybarczyk. [[Applause]] This is because in 2015 tax charges for the clearance of goods in Polish ports amounted to PLN 18 billion. How many years later, in 2018? 40 billion PLN. [[Applause]] Over 100% More. This is sealing, these are investments, that is belief in the possibility of rebuilding the port of the port industry. [[Member of Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Poor Hamburg.]] We are not ashamed to invest in the Polish maritime infrastructure, we are doing it just like the developed European countries, and the resources that have emerged are the means acquired by Minister Gróbarczyk. The Minister spoke of expanding the watercourse, many investments... [[Voice from the room: He was just talking.]] ...including for smaller ports, for which the Minister's medal is due, ports that would die without these investments, such as the port in Ustka. [[Applause]] [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Ustka. Exactly.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have four times longer sea borders in the Third Republic than in the Second Republic of Poland, but I have the impression that the whole Third Republic, all of this history was a story of turning back from the sea, winding up the maritime industry, winding up Gdańsk Shipyard, the cradle of Solidarity, in Gdańsk with Mr Azievicz you allowed this shipyard to be wasted... [[Voice from the room: Scandal]] ...we rebuild it, we bought Gdańsk Shipyard from foreign investors... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall: Who sold it?]] ...and this is salt in your eye, we bought in 2016 from the syndicate Navy Shipyard, which was in fact already sold to developers, i.e. port quays, excellent location in Gdynia. It would be destroyed irretrievably. Finally dig up the Vistula Mill. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know how to comment on this. After all, you all voted in favour of the Vistula mine excavation, which means today you're all in favour of not having the Vistula mine excavated? Say it out loud. I'd like to hear it here, from this podium. [[Voice from the hall: Za and even against.]] Do you want ships only through the Piławska Strait to enter the port of Elbląg? [[There are costs and costs.]] Because take into account your own vote in February 2017. All Members vote 'za'. I mean, it's schizophrenia. You can't do it that way. Today we are dealing with such a situation that many cities want to open a perspective, not only such as Szczecin, Gdynia or Ustka, but also Elbląg, 120 thousand Elbląg. [[Applause]] I once asked rhetorically if that's why we're going to create a Central Communication Port to take work away from a port in Berlin, but I didn't really think you could ask why we need a shipyard in Szczecin, a shipyard in Gdynia, because we have one in Hamburg or Rotterdam. Why do we need Elbląg? Of course the Vistula Mill and this excavation are strategically important to us. [[Tankers will be coming in.]] Likewise, our remaining great investments. I want to thank the Minister here for something that is not obvious. This is the further expansion of the LNG terminal in Świnoujście, as well as the Baltic gas pipeline. Here you sit Minister Naimski with us, of course it is his great credit, but also the great work of Minister Grybarczyk in this area has led us to be in a strategically completely different place than we were when it comes to the supply of gas. These are big strategic decisions that Minister Gróbaryczyk also participated in, and I am very grateful to him for that. Ladies and gentlemen! As multifaceted development policy as it is now has not been conducted by the Polish sea since the Second Republic, I do not hesitate to say it. [[Applause]] In the coming years we are planning to invest in the Polish maritime economy twenty few billion zlotys. These are powerful investments for which, in addition to capital measures, commercial funds, we are also guaranteed in various budgetary programmes. Finally, I will move on to the second, very important part of the work of Minister Grabaryczyk, i.e. inland waterway transport. I lived very close to the Oder in Wrocław and remember how in the 1970s the barges were swimming one after another after the Oder. These bars aren't here today. Today, the reconstruction of what is called blue economy helps green economy. Today, Minister Grabierczyk, through what he has already said, which is a feasibility study on the Oder, on the Vistula... [[A million cars.]] ...rebuilds inland navigation. [[Applause]] Today we are dealing with the situation that, compared to Western Europe, we have several dozen times less use of waterways and we have significant development opportunities in the next decade, in the next 20 years, if we start again using this to ensure, yes, intermodal transport. This was started by Minister Grabierczyk. I remember perfectly, because Malczyce is in Lower Silesia, Ścinawa, Lubiaż nad Odra, I remember perfectly how many years, how many decades were said about these thresholds, these power plants. This power plant in Malczyce starts today, that's concrete, thanks to Minister Gróbaryczyk. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! Thanks to the minister's efforts 2 years ago, my hometown of Wroclaw was recreated in the Inland Shipping Techniquem. It is a comprehensive reconstruction of inland waterway transport, which will certainly be very important for the reconstruction of river transport in Poland. But we need professionals right now. We're going to educate these professionals, they're already in labor, and there's a lot of interest. For this reason, for the opposition, who once talked more about warm water in the tap, perhaps, and forgot inland navigation, forgot, turned away from the maritime economy - you should respect these great efforts to rebuild the shipbuilding industry, the ports and the pearl of the minister's activities in recent months. Well, one of the largest ports in the Baltic, the DCT, became partly Polish. It's recolonization, yeah, we're not afraid of that word. We want as much Polish economy as possible to be in the Polish economy, [[Applause]] Polish economy in Polish hands. And we will strive to ensure that there are as many Polish producers as possible, as many Polish ships were built in Polish shipyards, not downloaded only from abroad. For us, the sea is a great opportunity. This is a process scheduled for 5, 10, 20 years. The first big milestones on this road were made by the Minister, and a medal is due, not a raccoon in the form of a recall by, you might say, pirates disguised as a royal fleet. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo! Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u649	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 36 of the agenda: Request for a vote of distrust towards the Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska (prints 3380 and 3403). I would like to ask the applicant's representative, Ms Ursula Augustyn, to state the reasons for the proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u650	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we will be debating the cancellation of Minister Zalewska herself. Although it is actually difficult to debate the cancellation of someone who has appealed himself, who has deserted. [[Applause]] Minister Zalewska is absent in recent days, does not present his laws, does not negotiate. Nobody wants to talk to her. Nobody believes her. Anyway, look at the watch. The time we're debating... [[Very good.]] ...is also testifying that you know very well that we are right. You're ashamed of your friend. What I want to say now is that this will be an indictment of what the Polish PiS has done. The first and most important charge, the fundamental charge, is an attempt to destroy the Polish school. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, I have no illusions, you have brought education to a state of total crisis. You ruined education, humiliated teachers, destroyed educational traditions and the achievements of recent decades. Why are you doing this? Because you like to manipulate people, and a poorly educated, ignorant citizen's rights would be easily manipulated. You could give him the propaganda mush from TVP forever and strengthen his own government like dictatorships. Today, Minister Dworczyk called on all of us to move forward beyond divisions. Although he also encouraged us to break the law, I would like to ask why you do not apply such actions beyond divisions to teachers. If you want an agreement over a division, you have to respect each other, and you have to apply force, in accordance with the principle: we have the majority, and what are you going to do to us? How does he have respect for the sovereign? [[Applause]] I do not see Prime Minister Szydło, but I would very much like to remind her of the words she repeated with great stubbornness at the beginning of her term of office. She kept saying you'd listen to the sovereign forever. So, did you lose your hearing? Teachers and parents screaming in the streets, you hear me? No, you can't hear me. Today, at the meeting of the Education Committee, we spoke with the Minister about the motion for a vote of distrust, and unfortunately the Minister did not notice that school was bad. I'd like to remind you of your words. Let me remind you first of the words of December Ub. When you summarized three years of your business. I quote: education reform has gone smoothly. Everything we have planned has been implemented, properly communicated and carried out in a way that provides funding. And a second statement from March this year, really a few weeks ago. Minister Zalewska: Polish education is in good condition. All the reforms were successful. None of the negative predictions came true. There's been an increase in spending on education. [[Like a TVP belt.]] Oh, dear, Minister, it's a parallel world. How did you come up with words like that when you didn't see what else you were saying and what else was going on? The school is in such good condition that teachers have been on strike for 18 days, and it was a strike on an unprecedented scale. There hasn't been a strike like this in a dozen years. The children were not provided with education. Parents and students were under a lot of stress, exams of eighth graders, middle school students were carried out by volunteers, firefighters, guardians of the place. Self-government goes with you to court because you don't give money to raise or to your senseless reform. Well done. And I can go on, and you've prepared the basics of the program that you're punishing the students, the seven of them already mentioned. - and eighth graders, but also teachers. That double yearbook you don't notice that you're ignoring will be studying in schools from morning to evening. Half the kids won't get into those schools she wanted to go to, and the others will study in classes, I don't know, 40 people. You blamed everything on the local government because, in fact, if it weren't for the local government and if it wasn't for the teachers, you wouldn't have started or managed it now. So your successes are very well drawn. [[What would we do without Mr. Broniar?]] You have withdrawn from some of the curian ideas, e.g. You have withdrawn from such an idea that you will judge the ethical and moral attitude of the teacher. Well, thank God you're out of your mind. You also withdrew from the extension of your career promotion. It's been 10 years, you've extended it to 15. Now you've cut him back to 10. [[Because we listen to people.]] But it's like when you break down first and then it gets better, it's not reform or success. It's just a mess. It's irresponsible and arrogant. [[Applause]] And that's what you have to call it, because that's what it's called in the dictionary of the Polish language: freakishness, irresponsibleness and arrogance. The Minister spoke at today's committee meeting and, in general, very often in front of the cameras, talks about how you are after many conversations with the unions. You talk and talk all the time. [[Voice from the room: 'Cause it's true.]] The problem is, I think we're having some dictionary trouble again. First of all, you learned about the teacher strike at least in January. It's really the latest date. If it's not December, it's January. A referendum was held, all schools spoke, made decisions. You knew there was going to be a strike. When you finished talking in January, the next conversation with the unionists, you had with the teachers at the end of March, exactly on March 25th. Two months didn't happen, silence. I mean, there was no relationship, the minister was debating, I don't know who you were debating with. You haven't made a dialogue in two months. Now you're doing everything you can on a cappaw, because time is on your way. Now you know very well that in a moment you will miss this time, you may miss it, but unfortunately it is too late. I also want to ask what dialogue is. Because I was very moved by the speech of the employer's representative who participated in the negotiations at the heart of the dialogue, who said that the government had come to a meeting with the unionists and kept silent. Literally, the ministers looked at each other. The unionists are preparing proposals: one step, the second step, the third step, they come down from their first postulate, they soothe it... [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] Instead of $1,000. PLN offer 30%. They split up into two instalments, spread out into three councils, and the government sits there, looks at each other and thinks it's looking for a deal. That's not where he's looking. If he looks at the wall, he won't find it, for sure. [[Applause]] Minister, this is irresponsible. You think it's wonderful, only a few hundred thousand teachers didn't realize it was so cool, so they were on strike. But it doesn't bother you. [[Applause]] You're the first teacher to be a role model. He's raised by example. What example do you set for young people? What example do you set for Poles? You give the example that you can not respect the law, because everything can be changed by law. There's one bill, there's a second bill, and you can change the state immediately. I heard you got off your knees. Your knees are free, so now you're on your knees writing laws. [[Applause]] As it turns out that there are no teachers for the examination teams, then check-ups, in 2 days you wrote a bill about how you can collect volunteers and they will carry out these exams. As it turns out, you can't classify seniors, so you wrote a new bill. Now the uncles will be able to classify seniors. That's not how you make the law. What you're doing is just one big scandal. [[Voice from the hall: Please do not practice such a publicist.]] I have a proposition for you. I suggest you write the next bill on the transfer of September until after the election, so that the teachers don't have time to hang up the strike. That's a very good bill. [[Voice from the room: Self-government speech.]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's tempting to vote on a vote of distrust for someone who's really behind it. After all, someone called Minister Zalewska, someone gave her instruments to destroy education, someone supported her instead of stopping destruction. Mr Kaczyński, who doesn't even want to come to this debate... [[Not for this debate.]] ...so you're not even behind you right now. [[Applause]] President Kaczyński hides behind his ministers, but today our accusation against the destroyers of Polish education concerns both Anna Zalewska and Jarosław Kaczyński to the same extent. But the most interesting thing about all of this is, [[Applause]] that both Mrs Zalewska and Mr Kaczyński disappeared during the crisis. They weren't in that conflict, they didn't notice 700,000. Polish teachers. They didn't mention this problem in their speeches, just like there was no problem. There are powerful plans, there's 500+, there's 500+ for cows, there's time to travel around the country, there's no time for people who complain. [[Applause]] For a decent life and nothing more, that's all. [[Some of the MPs are hitting the desktops.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'm on my way to the end. From this point on, I would like to accuse Minister Anna Zalewska and Mr Kaczyński of this... [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] ...that through their plan, their intrigue led Polish education to the edge of the abyss. I accuse them of colluding in order to destroy school, accuse them of planned action with... [[So the so-called checkmate.]] ...to destroy the trust of Poles in teachers. And finally I accuse them of harming Polish children. This is the most serious charge. This is an accusation which has no precedent in the history of Poland, unless in the times of partitions. [[Tell that to the gunman.]] Today we cannot vote on a vote of distrust towards Jarosław Kaczyński, although he deserves it very much, but in this symbolic way, by voting in favour of the appeal of Minister Zalewska, we will really show who is the real culprit and who will answer for all this. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u651	I now ask Mr Dariusz Piontkowski to present the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u652	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! Ministers! High Izbo! The Commission did not share this enthusiasm and the prosecution's tone of the applicant's representative. The majority of committee members considered that the proposal was, firstly, very poorly justified, secondly, that there were no facts in the explanatory memorandum. It's a fiction of not the highest flights, with not the best spelling and grammar. Unfortunately, what you have presented in the Parliament today confirms the impression of most of the members of the Education Committee. Therefore, the Education Committee, considering that the Minister is doing her job well, has prepared the reform well, concludes... [[We've got most of it and what you're gonna do to us.]] ...to reject the motion for a vote of distrust. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u653	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1a Questions are not acceptable as a separate element of the debate. Mr Zbigniew Dolata, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u654	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the motion to express a vote of distrust towards the Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska, print No. 3380. I will first point out that the parliamentary club will vote against this proposal. Why? Because the PO-KO application... [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] ...will go back to history as the worst-cased conclusion. [[It's a surprise.]] Competition here is huge: the previous proposal to the Minister of Maritime Affairs or the proposal to Minister Ardanowski. Turns out the Platform can. It's some kind of inflation of conclusions, maybe even hyperinflation. I wonder who advises Mr Schetyna to make so many proposals, because it gives you nothing politically, but it allows us to show how much good this government has done for Poles. [[Applause]] At the meeting of the National Education Commission, no one wanted to admit to this conclusion, even though I asked. It seems that the applicant has said that the laws are written on her knee. This request of yours was written not even on the knee, it was written in running between Mr. Schetin's office and Marshal Sejm's office. Hence the quality of this proposal. In presenting this proposal, Mrs Augustyn has reached the peak of hypocrisy. An example? Reason: teachers entering the profession were deprived of their allowances, e.g. development allowance. In 2015, Mrs Augustine, as Deputy Minister of Education, gave an interview and said: "There are many obsolete entries in the Charter that can be eliminated, for example. development request. [[Applause]] Next, Mrs Augustyn, the Minister, was in favour of raising her salary to 22 or 24 hours, of course without raising her salary, as well as the actual liquidation of the Teacher's Charter, which he was to replace with the Labour Code. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Pronaughter views try to dress up as a teacher's defender's feathers. Unfortunately, the reality of screeching, Mrs Augustine... [[Rysiek's got competition.]] ...but it doesn't deviate from the other members of the PO-KO club. How PO-KO ruled, he liquidated schools, 2,5 thousands. schools. Over 40,000. teaching posts eliminated. The limitations of teaching history. It's a 6-year-old school mob. Elimination of pedagogical supervision. Freezing wages since 2012 Increase in pension. [[Do you have anything to say to Ms. Zalewska's defense?]] Raising the retirement age. You can say that and say that. And having such sins on your conscience, you have to have a really special nerve to press charges against Minister Annie Zalewska, who has been fixing what you've ruined for the past three years. [[Applause]] Making the Minister? [[Let him defend Zalewska.]] Restoring parents' choice of whether 6 or 7-year-old children will be in the first classes. System reform: 8-class primary school, 4-year high school, 5-year technical school. Rebuilding vocational training and adapting to the requirements of the modern labour market. [[Voice from the room: Where?]] Full course in history teaching. Wideband Internet in schools. Increase in education subsidies: in 2015-40 billion PLN, in 2019-46 billion PLN, i.e. an increase of 6 billion PLN. [[Applause]] The biggest salary increase ever, 20% in a year and a half. Over 20,000. new teaching posts. Liquidation of card hours. [[Where do you live? It's not about Poland.]] Keeping the Teacher's Card. Lowering retirement age. These are the concrete achievements of the Minister. In conclusion, PO-KO politicians failed to pass the political maturity test when submitting this proposal. [[Applause]] You didn't pass either. a political maturity exam at a time when you were responsible for Polish education. I'm a teacher. If this proposal were to be judged as the teacher evaluates the essay, then you would have received an inadequate evaluation with an exclamation point, [[♪ The bell ♪]] You wouldn't have been admitted to your prom exam. That is why we will vote against this proposal. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Room voice: Bravo, Zbyszek!]] [[The wall behind Zalewska.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u655	Ms Krystyna Szumilas, PO-KO Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u656	As I recall, Mr Zalewska, who had just defended Minister Zalewska, was in favour of raising the price of petrol - he cares so much for the citizen. [[Applause]] It is midnight, and we are discussing a motion to dismiss Minister Zalewski. I have a question for you, Members of the PiS. Are you ashamed to defend Minister Zalewska? [[Voice from the room: No.]] Are you ashamed of your speeches? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Are you afraid someone's gonna hear them? [[Voice from the room: No.]] You prefer to sit at night so that the sovereign doesn't look at the stupid things you're talking about from the speaker. [[Applause]] But you will not hide the truth about the damage that Minister Zalewska did at the Polish school. You can't hide the truth about her arrogance, the lack of ability to talk to people, the lies that society has been feeding. You can't hide the truth about a double vintage... [[A voice from the hall: What about a double yearbook with six-year-olds?]] ...overloaded programs, senseless liquidation of middle school and money thrown into the mud. You can't hide the truth about the teacher strike... [[Shut up, Miss Finger. He's interfering with the deliberations.]] ...by 4 million students who, due to the inadequacies of Minister Zalewska and your government, did not go to school for almost 3 weeks. You can't hide the truth about your responsibility for the stress of middle school students, 8th graders and seniors. You can't hide the truth about your attacks on the dignity of teachers, about comparing them to idlers avoiding work or Wehrmacht soldiers. You can't hide the truth about the damage that Minister Zalewska has done to students and teachers for your permission, even if you don't vote against it today. Prime Minister! On 15 April you yourself admitted that after 3 years and 6 months of destructive activity of Minister Zalewska, here is a quote: we need to get into a deep repair of the education system. [[Applause]] I have a question for you: What has Minister Zalewska been doing for 3.5 years? Why does the education system need deep repair after its deformity? Prime Minister! You confirmed your lack of confidence in Minister Zalewski by rejecting her from talking to the teachers. Today, once again, you have shown the validity of our proposal. For the first time, the Minister of Education did not present an important educational bill in the Sejm. It was presented under your authority by Minister Dworczyk, and Minister Zalewska was forced to hide in the rear rows of government benches. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Shame.]] [[Voice from the room: Lying.]] Prime Minister! You threw into the basket the assessment prepared by Minister Zalewska of the teacher's work and her extended internship for teachers. You admitted that taking a development allowance from your teachers was a mistake. After all, it is nothing more than your vote of distrust to Minister Zalewska and admit once again that the deformity by her was wrong. And one more thing. You've allowed the teachers to use a force solution. Instead of talking to the teachers, you gave the public a dubious quality performance whose main purpose was to humiliate the teachers and break their spines. Only to blame the Minister of Education's mistakes for throwing teachers on their shoulders and tearing them apart from society. [[Go back to reality.]] But I warn you, you underestimated the determination of the teachers. You didn't manage to break the teachers, and neither did the minister. They showed their strength, and you showed your weakness. Prime Minister! In a normal country, a minister whose actions led to a strike of almost three weeks would no longer be a minister, not at the initiative of the opposition, but by the decision of the Prime Minister. But you didn't have the courage to face your teachers. For 18 days, you didn't have the courage to go to the teachers and talk to them. And you don't have the guts without a decision from Novgorodska, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Cancel such a terrible minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u657	Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u658	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I present the position of the Kukiz club15 in relation to the motion for a vote of distrust for the Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska. Mrs. Zalewska's defense is the defense of lost positions. I think it is unnecessary because, as it seems, on Monday or Tuesday, Minister Zalewska will cease to be Minister. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] MEN is one of the weakest resorts. Unfortunately, Mrs. Anna Zalewska is responsible for this. We were really expecting a revolution from you in education, a systemic and a qualitative revolution. In fact, the structure of education introduced in 1999 proved fatal and only organisational changes in this area, and perhaps industry schools, is your success. The rest is a series of constant failures. The most spectacular is fraud in raising teachers' salaries. You have certainly also managed to manipulate the public, the public, that teachers have received an increase of about 20%. But the problem is that these 20% are pennies, given the starting amount, which unfortunately was also contributed by the government of the Civic Platform and PSL. The second thing is a shoe and a conviction of infallibility, and then a tail-bricked withdrawal from good projects, at least partially good ones. The first question is the famous 10% for qualified teachers who stand out in teaching work. We said at the committee meeting that all teachers should get this 10%. Minister Zalewska said there was no money for it. And she was right because there was no money for it, but then because of the resistance she withdrew from the project. The next issue is the extension, which many experienced teachers have found to be justified, the paths of professional promotion, and now the return to the ossified system under the PO-PSL regime. Next thing you know, there is no agreement with the Ministry of Science and Higher Education on the standards of teacher education. It is because of your lack of interest in this matter that universities teaching teachers have been doing this according to the 2012 standards, standards which do not conform to the reality of the Polish school today, but also to the present. You're responsible for this. Another thing is the lack of vision of the Polish school, the lack of an axiological system on which it would resist. And yet, the school should educate not only skills but also personalities. But what to talk about the vision of the Polish school in the version of Minister Zalewska, who sees nothing wrong in the fact that there are books in the libraries of the Polish schools such as This is your embarrassment, Minister. You talk about broadband as a success, but you know, or you should know that in such a small country... In view of the Małopolska broadband networks there has been an investigation for several years and, as it has not been, there will still be broadband networks in every school. Next line. Why didn't you issue a regulation on the recognition of teachers' competence and qualifications in the new school system? I've been interlocuting on this case. The answer from Minister Kopcia was this: indeed, teachers have and retain their qualifications in the new organizational system. But somehow you couldn't issue a regulation or at least send letters to the curators so that the curators would recognize the qualifications of teachers. There's still a problem with that tonight. The next issue, ladies and gentlemen, is the supervision of the basic content of the school textbooks. I'm just going to refer to an example of a chemistry textbook that contains a record of the benefit of boosters that enhances learning outcomes. It is true that this textbook was issued before your term of office under the PO-PSL regime, but your passiveness in this matter merely testifies to the theory of common pedigree. You're still in the same direction. It's working. There's a lot to be said about things that burden you. It is a matter of restricting and obstructing the functioning of the home education system. The argument you used to limit home education is an intellectual failure. Kids who learn in this system are slipping out of the system, it's a scandal. The scandal, in order to limit it, so to argue the limitation of domestic education. Of course, applicants insist on political considerations, but the substantive reasons that I have mentioned only a part of them, [[♪ The bell ♪]] allow us to conclude that the Kukiz club15 will mostly vote in favour of the cancellation of Minister Zalewska. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u659	Mrs Urszula Pasławska, club of the Polish People's Party. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[No, Rysiek won't speak?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u660	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! For 30 years... [[Voice from the room: Easy there, gentlemen.]] [[And you're not responding to the marshal?]] ...democratic governments in Poland were many ministers of education: better, worse, more conservative, more revolutionary, but so far there has been no minister of education who hates school and reports constant unpreparedness. [[Applause]] A minister who turns his back on his students, his parents, his teachers, in an insolent way even according to the standards of the PiS. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] Ms Zalewska devastated the education system in Poland. But that's not her problem anymore. Why? Because he's mentally already in Brussels. You don't care anymore. I think you've never cared about the welfare of your children in the reform you've introduced. [[Applause]] The reform carried out took more than 1 million children from childhood - the programme of classes VIII and VII is overloaded to the limits of impossibility. Why? Because students implement a three-year programme basis within 2 years, they have to get rid of their passions, interests, they have to give up building relationships. The reform also took away the dreams of many graduates of primary and secondary schools - today they are preparing to enter secondary schools, apply to secondary schools, and they know that there are a little more than half of the places in these schools. You introduced a reform that took the disabled children 3 years of education, and then you threw the same children out of school. Why did you do that? In the last few weeks, you've shown something else, something so unusual, that you can be a minister absent. [[How can you lie like that, Member?]] About the teacher protest they spoke and met Prime Minister Szydło, even Minister Dworczyk, Minister Rafalska. And Minister Zalewska, hidden as she had never said before, had nothing to say to you. Even at the PiS convention in Wroclaw, you weren't given the floor. Perhaps President Kaczyński has already dismissed you. Speaking of which, do you remember the promise of PiS to teachers? In 2011, what did you promise? Not $1,000. PLN raise, not even 1.5 thousand. If you don't have that document, I can drop off 2.5. thousands. Two and a half thousand. in 2011, [[Applause]] That was your election promise. You tricked teachers, you betrayed teachers, and then you're surprised that teachers are protesting. I must say that not only as a politician, but also as a mother I expect teachers who will take care of my children, students, will be teachers who are passionate about their children, they will be teachers who are satisfied, satisfied. I do not want Polish children to take care of teachers who earn less than the minimum national. I've filed an interrogation with you on this matter. You texted me back that everything's okay, they can always add to the local government. You destroyed your education, humiliated your teachers. Today you enjoy victory over them. Except it's a pyrrus victory. It was the teachers who showed discretion, responsibility, and the government failed again. You broke up the social dialogue and tried to get past the protesters. The teachers are suspending the strike, but I hope you will learn from it and return to the dialogue. Teachers need to be talked to, but without Minister Zalewska. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u661	Katarzyna Lubnauer, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u662	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! I'm done, I'm sorry, I'm done. In the last eight years - what I've heard here in the performance of a representative of the PiS. Start taking responsibility for your actions. I know one thing: that in Poland's history there is to be a round table twice. The first was after 45 years of the Polish People's Republic, another - after 3.5 years of government in the education of Minister Zalewska. That's the kind of damage we've got. Now it's twelve o'clock in twenty. If Minister Zalewska has been so successful, why is the debate so late? I thought you would like to boast about all these successes, not hide, as in Wrocław, Minister Zalewska, as in the PiS Convention. We heard Minister Zalewska when a few years ago, in 2009, she said that in order to achieve a good education reform, two things are needed: 7 years of preparation and money. Note that in this reform, which was prepared by Minister Zalewska, there were not seven years nor money, there was no such thing as this. They warned experts, warned teachers, warned everyone: this reform, this deformity of education prepared by Minister Zalewska, has no basis for substance. Documents. The 1999 document numbered 124 pages of analyses, why the new system is better, compared to systems in different countries, with an analysis of why under Polish conditions a system based on 6, 3, 3 is better than a system 8 plus 4. How much did Minister Zalewska count like this? Eight pages. Eight pages at a time when experts were called upon to do so immediately. What are the consequences of education reform? The reform, which was introduced in the middle of educational cycles - I, IV and VII classes. And class - you can understand, IV - there is already a problem. It turns out that very often children who have gone to school as 6-year-olds, to reform, which is introduced in the fourth grade and not adapted to 6-year-old children, are in trouble to cope. Even worse is the case with those children who were in seventh grade at the time, because they had a jump between class VI according to the old program and class VII according to the completely different program, e.g. Biology and geography instead of nature. In general, this is the opposite direction to the direction in which the whole world is going. The whole world: interdisciplinary education, here: subject education, i.e. back to the 19th century. Teachers also warned that programs were bad. At the moment, on the eighth grade test, these tests, they were 40%... Why? Because the programs are overloaded and you're actually trying to realize 3 years in 2 years. Bilingual classes. I really don't like that term, but I told you so. We said that the bilingual classes as the VII and VIII primary school classes in a situation where this is not a class for children from a larger area will not work. We know, we know the outcome. You destroyed one, you didn't create another. Instead of 550 there are 290 branches, bilingual classes. This is a lost opportunity for language-based young people, especially the poorer one, because she often has no chance of additional lessons funded by her parents. Work for two shifts, sometimes youth work in the common room, because there are no halls at the moment when there are 7th and 8th classes in schools that were not adapted for this. Two years going to high school. Best high school, 20 best high schools according to the Perspectives. It turns out that in 11 of them are unable to run double the number of school branches. First of all, it's harder to get in, but you also give up certain profiles because there's no way to run so many classes. This means dreams taken from many children who dreamed of a specific profile in a particular school. The biggest strike since 1993 18 days of strike without teaching children, with the threat of high school. A legitimate protest by teachers. The success of Minister Zalewska. More chaotic decisions. First: Teachers probably work too long, they need to be canceled for two hours, now: We need to increase the penny by 4 and 6 hours. Definitely the promotion of teachers takes too short, from 10 years let's extend it to 15, although no, actually 10 years is a very good time. You can't do that from Sas to Las, you have to make up your mind about something. Teacher evaluation. Another project you've launched and pulled out of. Individual learning of children with disabilities at school. There is a petition on this matter in the European Parliament. This is actually taking away some of the children's chances. I feel sorry for the children who will fall into a school programmed by Minister Zalewska. Maybe in a few years, we'll call them a lost generation, a generation of lost chances to compete with children from all over Europe. This means one thing: We are for a vote of distrust towards Minister Zalewska. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u663	Mr Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, near Now!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u664	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In your history you are registered as Minister Anna Zalewska cowardly or Minister Anna Zalewska - a man of destruction. [[Applause]] Yes, yes, Minister. You're sitting here today in this bench, and you think you're about to get some flowers, some congratulations. You're guilty. You set the education system on fire. You set it on fire. [[Applause]] And now for the details. It's after midnight. Do you think that if you're doing this debate in secret from people, no one will notice? This also shows your attitude towards the citizens and citizens of our country. The fact that you do it at midnight shows that you are cowards: you, just like your friend Kaczyński and the rest of you who sit here on this side. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Quiet, quiet. But not just because you led to the strike of teachers, you should be canceled, because it is just such a moldy cherry on the stinking cake of your achievements in Polish education. [[Mr. Marshal, punishment.]] You heard me. You should be called off for chaos, for confusion, for the implementation of completely idiotic ideas, for the liquidation of junior high, for a double year, for two shifts, for the fact that Polish education has fallen in world rankings, for wandering teachers who have to grab various classes in different schools to earn bread. Of course, you're good enough. Teachers don't. You should be called off for hitting textbooks again and all for the quality of those textbooks, which is dramatic. I know what I'm saying because I have kids in primary school. Minister! I think you thought you'd turn on that gorgeous smile of yours and that you'd blind the Poles with the glow of your smile and they wouldn't know what you did. You set fire to the education system and now how a coward wants to escape to Brussels. [[Run!]] You can even run to Antarctica. [[Voice from the room: Escape?]] You don't think you're ever gonna answer for that? You're gonna answer for that. Do you know why? Because evil returns to the one who causes evil, and returns to you. [[Applause]] Dear Minister, Do you think you can tell Adieu and run off to Brussels? No, Minister. You're gonna answer for everything. For everything. And I'm saying this as the mother of the children who go to school who have to wear these heavy bags that you have to sit through all these shifts from morning to evening at school. You will answer for the fact that my son, who has now passed his eighth grade exams, is in this yearbook that you have doubled. [[Your son's exam passed?]] These kids are gonna have trouble getting into high school because of you. [[But in private school?]] And the worst thing you've done is you've excluded children with disabilities from education. [[It's a lie. It's a lie. You're lying impudently.]] You did it, and you know it. And one last thing to the Prime Minister. Prime Minister, you have no moral right to organize any round tables. First of all, the round table was one and it was a fantastic round table. Call your meetings what you want. If you really wanted to do something, you'd remember that in 2017, you made almost a million copies of citizens and citizens who wanted to talk about education reform. You didn't do it, so your meeting tomorrow just doesn't make any sense. Of course, we will vote in favour of dismissing Minister Anna Zalewska cowardly. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: How much? How many votes?]] [[Voice from the room: Two of us.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u665	We're used to a certain exoticity of your speeches, but rudeness shouldn't happen in this room. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, near Free and Solidarni. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u666	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Minister! I present the position of the Free and Solidarnia Circle on the motion for a vote of distrust towards the Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska. Minister Zalewska took responsibility for carrying out thorough reforms in education - the creation of eight-class primary schools, and thus a major change of the entire teaching system in Poland. When such huge changes are made that require the involvement of many actors, success is often not immediately visible. We will not be able to collect this change until a few years later, when we will see how much science has improved in Polish schools. The Minister does not push for changes that are not beneficial, e.g. for teaching environments. Few people like the Minister can afford to admit a mistake, e.g. Restoring a short career promotion path. It's also the right time to lie that the government didn't give the teachers any raises. Teacher salaries increased by 5% in April 2018, in January 2019 5% and a further increase of 9.6% is expected in September this year. The Minister of National Education had to struggle from the beginning with a wave of hat and hostility fueled by total opposition. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Regardless of the proposal, it has always been criticised for the ideas developed to improve the education system. [[Really?]] Today I am asking you Members of the total opposition, which is wrong to restore the rank and quality of teaching in industry schools, to involve employers in the education system of vocational school pupils, or to require that professional teachers acquire new competences in workplaces. I think we all dream of a school teaching excellent staff for the Polish economy. [[Game in the O.R.]] These are your substantive answers to me. Minister Anna Zalewska held several hundred meetings with unions and other representatives of school environments, during which many important solutions were developed. It is therefore impossible to talk about the closure of the Minister for Education and the implementation of reforms only in accordance with his plan. The Resort consulted changes very widely and the proposed reform responds to the needs of changing realities and students. Today, almost everyone is allowed to comment on the school system as an expert. Of course, some changes in Polish education raise doubts, but it is important to always put Polish students first and follow their good. What I want to emphasise at the end is that in the current term of the Sejm, education was not only not able to free itself from politics, but because of the actions of the total opposition it was involved as never before. I believe that the Minister will always fight for the good of the students and a better Polish school. About Free and Solidarni will vote against the vote of distrust towards Minister Anna Zalewska. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the O.R.: On two hands.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u667	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I now ask the Minister of National Education, Ms Anna Zalewska, to speak. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u668	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start with what is most important today: thanks to the president of the Polish Teachers' Association that he decided to suspend the strike, that the children will return to school, that teachers tired of this strike will work, that parents will finally be relieved to breathe. Teachers are entitled to words of support and reminders of what they have been able to work out over the last few years in order to make their salaries bigger. Let us recall what is already in the agreement, which is already in the case of one provision concerning the hours at the Director's disposal, so that no additional classes are unpaid, is carried out. A month ago, I signed a regulation. We're finishing the bill, he's about to go to the High House to guarantee teachers 15%. increase in 2019 In order to guarantee that the teacher will have at least PLN 300 for his education, so that the young teacher will receive PLN 1000 for the start. When he received money for development as a young teacher, it was PLN 5 million. Now it's 50 million zlotys. At the same time, the wording and commitments will appear in these records, which include: They will translate into a permanent, systematic change in the quality of school work. Let us remind: teachers in 2017 were the first and only professional group to receive valorization. An increase of three times five was announced in April 2018, January 2019 and January 2020. The talks and negotiations with trade unions first led to an acceleration and an increase scheduled for January 2020 appeared in September 2019 and followed by a further 5%. In two years, it's 21%. This will result in more than 6 billion in the 2020 budget. At the same time, please note that we should be grateful for the fact that in Poland, despite the ongoing strike and respect for the teachers who are on strike, there were exams, middle school exams, exams after the eighth grade. We are not only grateful to the directors - our parents are grateful, they asked us to give these thanks and greetings - but above all to volunteers and non-terrorous teachers. These disdainful firefighters, Commissioner, are all firefighters with appropriate qualifications. That was the regulation, and that was what it looked like on the middle school exams, on the eighth grade exams. And of some, and of others, the disciples came out with relief and satisfaction. In the eighth grade exam, we fulfilled our next commitment: we are done with the testomania. After all, in 2016 there was no exam after the sixth grade. It was the first decision. And an eighth grade exam in the middle is an open job so that children not only solve tests, but think, solve problems. That's what we're committed to, and that's what we're doing. You talk very often about the expenditure on education. In addition to raising money for teachers, I can exchange further projects that are already being carried out on one exhale. Over PLN 1200 million for broadband Internet in every educational institution. Let me remind you that we found after the projects of the Digital School 10% schools after your governments that had broadband Internet. Wideband Internet will be free at school until 2027. [[The voice from the hall: Oh, dear.]] At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, over PLN 300 million for multimedia equipment. That's why we need to implement the software base in this way. We have made sure that teachers who use multimedia equipment can simply learn this. That's why we decided a month ago, i.e. The Ministry of Digitalization, a tender for PLN 50 million for such teacher training. Multimedia equipment, which already appears in each class in the school, is also, ladies and gentlemen, the implementation of the next project, 50,000. e-Resources to be on multimedia equipment so you don't have to wear textbooks to school. I think it's a matter of the coming year when it actually happens. In addition to, please, broadband Internet, 1200 million, 1400 million PLN, 300 million PLN for multimedia equipment - over 300 million PLN for natural offices. May I remind you of your time? 25% in middle school, 18% at every elementary school. That's why we wanted to make a decision to have biological, chemical, and physical offices in every school. Besides, ladies and gentlemen, since January this year, we've been restoring the cafeteria to schools. It's huge money, first, for equipment, for renovations and construction, and second, for support for children's food at school. Let us remind you that in the 21st century the cafeteria, food is educational tools. Let's remind you of some more money - a school trip. Every child will be... This has already been paid, and there are efforts of the Ministry and it will be done so that it is guaranteed by the Act that every year this expedition will be paid. If we say to that, ladies and gentlemen, six-year-olds in kindergarten are 96%. - such decisions were made by parents - that three-year-olds are 80% , and pre-schooling, though ugly word, is 90%. A six-year-old grant for the first time in two years. Donations to every kindergarten teacher. Building a 4-year-old high school because it's going to take three years to build it right now. It's a short prep course for M.A. Now we're going to have classic general education. A new industry school, difficult to complete. I hope that this will be properly implemented. The industry school, which was invented, and the recipes were written together with the employers. In short, the professional school that will be with the employer or the young man will be with the employer and the employer will be at the school. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, we have made many decisions that result, among others. modern software bases. You're always talking about programs. Programs, ladies and gentlemen, are shaped by teachers. Teachers have absolute freedom. The basics of the program are a collection of several, several issues that will appear on the exam. Manuals, ladies and gentlemen, are prepared by publishing houses, allowed by experts and is absolutely free to choose these manuals. Let us also remind you that the software bases have been designed so that 20% of them are implemented, among others. projects. You're talking about the so-called. A double vintage. I just want to remind you of one tragic double vintage when you pushed five-year-olds and six-year-olds into school together with seven-year-olds. It was actually a drama. [[Applause]] In fact, it must be said that none of your prophecies in recent years have worked out, and this must be repeated because you are concerned with your parents. As far as yearbooks are concerned, which will meet in 2019 - the one after middle school and the one after eighth grade - are the two highest than demographics. Therefore, the decision to convert middle school had to be made at a time like this. These are, ladies and gentlemen, yearbooks that... [[Game in the O.R.]] I'll let you guys calm down. Ladies and gentlemen, the children of both years will be less in 2019 than there were children in 2010. Currently we have 35% fewer children in the education system than they were in 2000. We have really dramatic than demographics. When I signed the Education Law project, I already knew and we knew at the Ministry of Education that as far as the number of places in schools is concerned, it is sufficient and every child will be able to realize his dreams. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I feel like there's too much of me in the media. I attend a press conference every day. If you'll excuse me. [[Joy in the Chamber]] They're mobilizing, and I really need to discipline myself. Finally, something that arouses your emotions: my participation in the elections for Europarliament. I just want to remind all of you of something and ask you: Who would make the decision I made in November 2015? I was given the mandate of a MEP at the time. I made a decision, knowing that I would be responsible for a difficult reform, that I would become Minister of Education. I'm satisfied with that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u669	Thank you, Minister. I now ask the President of the Council of Ministers of Mr Mateusz Morawiecki to speak. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u670	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Minister undertook a very difficult task: repair of Polish education. [[Voice from the room: And it didn't work out.]] This is a task that has been facing problems not only in the last 10 years but even in the last 20 years. Consider the system we lived in. We lived in a communist system, which did not care about raising Polish patriots, people who would be comprehensively educated and who through this could threaten that system. It is 45 years of communism, then the Third Republic, during which history lessons were removed. [[Voice from the room: 5 million to the account was affected.]] Looking at the many changes that the Minister has made, I would first like to thank you, Minister, for rebuilding this. [[Applause]] history lessons in high schools, in which at the time of the Civic Platform they were only in the first class - then they were combined with other objects. We have restored history lessons, something extremely fundamental to building the awareness of the whole nation. This is the first very important change. Tough, but necessary education reform was very difficult to prepare. Let me remind you that in the consultation process, the Minister referred to 60,000 in various forms. persons. Sixty thousand. people participated in various kinds of surveys, questions, discussions, debates, panels. The reform that Minister Zalewska is implementing was so widely discussed. [[Uncle Błasiak wrote what it looked like, and for that you threw him out of the party.]] The Poles have spoken up and are still in favour of the main points of the reform proposed by the Minister. A few months ago in the CBOS study 67% people were in favour of changing the 6+3+3 system to the 8+4 system. We really listen to people, we do extensive consultations, and we do what people want us to do. Both in the change concerning 6-year-olds, where we gave parents freedom to send children from 6 or 7 years of age to school, as well as in the difficult reform of middle school. The reform carried out 20 years ago did not succeed. [[Voice from the room: Completely successful.]] She's been very criticized for many years. I myself had two kids who went to middle school, and I know what kind of flaws, what mistakes, what problems were involved. [[Game in the O.R.]] Minister Zalewska has made a major change with regard to teachers' salaries compared to the four-year-old before our governments. During your governments, with the exception of the effects pulled from 2012, de facto for 4 years in the budget 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016, which prepared the Civic Platform, how much was there for increases for teachers? Zero. Minister Zalewska has changed this state of affairs. As you may not notice, at the same time here criticizing those changes which Minister Zalewska guaranteed in the budgeting process. In 2017, - PLN 418 million, in 2017, in 2018. A 5% raise. In 2019, together with September, a 15% increase. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do a little more or less with all the additions, and I would stress that... [[You gave so much money that teachers are on strike.]] ...with all the extras, because we really didn't explain enough that in all the salaries you have to take into account all the extras, the thirteenth salary and divide by twelve. And that's how we look at this average, this average, which the self-governments are also admitting today. In the case of a diplomat, let's assume, the amount of PLN 5300, add 15% to it. . How much is that gonna be? PLN 795. So we have PLN 6095 gross. I stress, of course: this is gross, because different people account differently for their taxes, with their spouse, taking into account their children, without taking into account, etc. So you have to give the gross amount. PLN 6095. So much after the September raise will be earned by a diplomat. With all the extras, of course. In addition, there is a 6% reduction in PIT, i.e. one percentage point from 18% to 17%. And yet, by the age of 26, teachers will not pay tax at all. Ladies and gentlemen, these are real changes. Teachers talked about $1,000 a while ago. zł. Of course it was... In different contexts, this amount was thrown. But I would like to stress that the April raises from last year, along with this year's raises, are over 1,000. gross zloty. That's over 1,000. gross zloty. So we have made a great deal of profound changes thanks to the Minister also in the remuneration system. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been concerns about the dismissal of teachers in recent years. Yes, you have also cast such concerns from this speaker a few years ago in relation to the reform. Well, it turns out there's at least 17,000. teachers employed more. And this is possible because, and numbers do not lie, that in the years 2016 and 2019 we spend 5.5 billion PLN, at least 5.5 billion PLN. I do not count here this reduction in PIT tax, the universal reduction in PIT tax, with which this reduction will be about PLN 6 billion more for teachers. How much has the Civic Platform allocated to teachers in the previous 4 years, counting the pulled effect... [[Voice from the room: A lot.]] ... $380 million, which means more than 10 times less... [[Voice from the room: More.]] ...in the last four years. Ladies and gentlemen, I spoke about a lot of things in October when you presented your previous motion to dismiss Minister Zalewska. I do not want to repeat this, but I will highlight a few very important elements before the summary. Well, the Minister has implemented one educational information system, eliminating the need for multiple data input, thus reducing bureaucracy. Professional promotion, less papers to evaluate. rebureaucratization. Many changes in broadband IT projects are due Minister, who designed the programs to get to schools with broadband Internet as soon as possible. And it's happening at a rate... [[Yeah, in 2027, it's a bumpy pace.]] ...that we haven't seen in your reigns. Ladies and gentlemen, has everything been repaired? Did everything improve? Of course not. And that's why we offered out of respect for teachers, but also out of respect for students above all - the school is for students, I think we can all agree on that. [[Applause]] - round table... [[Does the Minister know about this?]] ...on whose agenda you accepted an invitation from the Civic Platform. You have proposed - I have with me a letter from Mr Neumann - that you will take part in this round table tomorrow. [[Voice from the room: Not in this.]] You promised to take part, you rushed us into organizing this round table. We promised we'd start it a week after Christmas. And according to our promise, we will, of course, expect you tomorrow, because we want to carry out this discussion in an open form... [[I wish you'd met with your teachers for 18 days.]] ... Indeed, in the form of dialogue, in the formula of compromise, in the formula that is needed for in-depth reflection, for the in-depth repair of the entire system of education, which was spoiled for 25 years of the Third Republic, and before that was very far from perfect. I guess I'm very sensitive about the years of the Polish People's Republic. Ladies and gentlemen! Another difference: in the years of the Civic Platform's rule, around 1 000 people were eliminated. schools. Between 2008 and 2012 - 954 schools. [[That's not true.]] All you have to do is look in the statistical yearbook. 954 schools. Let me stress this once again: The Civic Platform closed down 954 schools. We are trying to reconstruct, rebuild education, change, reform, actually change it to this system that works better: 8 + 4. This very difficult work has just been done by Minister Zalewska. At this difficult time, when a number of protests really took place and at the same time led us to open up this debate in the round table and to recognise that all the reforms that we proposed in the first phase - the secondary reform, the reform related to the programme bases, the reform relating to the restoration of history lessons, and finally so crazyly important for the recovery of the economic potential of the reform of vocational schools and, in fact, the reconstruction of vocational education - require continued and profound reflection... We'll be working on this in the round table form soon enough. Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion, I would like to say that some reforms should be drawn outside the context of a political dispute. I remember my mom's story about the primary school before World War II. At that time the teachers really cared about the welfare of the students, the welfare of the whole system, but they also had patriotism in their heart. I believe that today's teachers also have in their heart the good of Poland, the good of our homeland, want to build Polish patriotism. I thank all the teachers for having passed the exam in these difficult days of protest. [[Voice from the room: Who passed the exam?]] For the fact that the middle school exams, the primary school exams, took place without obstacles. Thank you for that. [[Applause]] I also thank you for the fact that trade unions - not all - have decided to sign an agreement with us. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] An agreement that will mean increases for teachers, the highest increases for many, many years. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: How much did it sign?]] This is a big thank-you to Minister Zalewska. [[The voice from the room: Liar!]] [[Some of the Members chant: 'Solidarity'! I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.]] Yeah, solidarity. It's good old-fashioned. It is a trade union that changed the face of Poland in 1980, 1981 and changes the face of Poland in the Third Republic. [[Applause]] During this time of tension, I would like to ask, thanking the High House for adopting this bill today, so that we can give the seniors a rest now, to prepare in the last few days to be sure that, as promised, they will be able to take their final exams, that we will eliminate this uncertainty through this law. At the same time, we want to propose in an open, compromise way a debate - a debate for the good of the education system, a debate which we are very much putting in place at the same time, based on the reforms that Minister Zalewska started. I thank the Minister for conducting the Polish school during these difficult years during these first years of reform. I hope that we will continue together in the coming months in the form of this educational round table. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u671	Thank you, Prime Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote in the voting block. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 1 min. 01 to hour 1 min 06]] I'm reopening the session. The Health Commission submitted a report on the Senate's resolution on the Law amending the Pharmaceutical Law and certain other laws, in print No 3402. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 and 5a of the Sejm's Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Commission's draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2020 by Leopold Tyrmand (Prints 2186 and 2204). I ask you to stand up and I will read the text of the draft resolution. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] The resolution of the Polish Sejm on the establishment of the year 2020 by Leopold Tyrmand. In 2020 is the centenary of Leopold Tyrmand's birth - an outstanding writer, journalist and publicist. That same year will be the 35th anniversary of His death. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland, in recognition of the great merits of the Artist, decides to pay tribute to Him. Leopold Tyrmand, author of the iconic novel 'Evil' and uncompromising 'Diary 1954', was one of the most original Polish prosaics in the second half of the 20th century. In the most difficult times, he maintained a courageous intellectual independence. 'I will not go to any service of thought, conscience and existence, I will not improve anything in my life at the cost of what I believe, what seems to me to be right and worthy of my loyalty' - these words, listed in a drawer on a black Stalin's night, can be regarded as the life's credo of the Writer. Zbigniew Herbert wrote: 'I followed his moral example, and I really don't know if I would have survived these dark times without him'. Tyrmand's writing and his attitude were a challenge to the ideologists of the new system. He was not only a ruthless critic of communism, but also an arbiter of Warsaw's elegance, an expert and passionate promoter of forbidden jazz in Stalin's times. 'No one who is willing to fight for his own dignity and wants to remain in harmony with his conscience will agree to call the day night, the darkness of culture, the crime of decency, the slavery of liberty - by decree of communist rulers' - he wrote. In the mid-'60s, he decided to emigrate. From across the ocean, he carefully and brilliantly analyzed the system that enslaved Central and Eastern Europe. In the pamphlet 'Civilization of Communism' he considered this system to be the worst plague of humanity. During the era of counterculture and youth rebellion, Tyremand was an important voice of American conservatism. 'He left freedom lovers all over the world a wonderful legacy', wrote President Ronald Reagan after his death. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland, deeply convinced of the unique importance of His creation, establishes the year 2020 as the Year of Leopold Tyrmand. I propose that the Sejm adopt a resolution on this matter by acclamation. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on the establishment of the year 2020 by the Year of Leopold Tyrmand. We are returning to the examination of item 38 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Law on the Supreme Court and certain other laws. During the second reading of the bill, proposals were made to reject the draft law in its entirety and to amend it. Following the request to join the third reading of the draft law after the text of the proposals and the amendments tabled had been served to the ladies and gentlemen. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the proposal to join the third reading of the bill after the text of the proposals and amendments tabled has been served to you and your Members, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 401 Members voted. The vote was 231 against - 170, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the proposal and therefore decided to immediately accede to the third reading of the bill after the text of the proposals and amendments tabled had been served to the ladies and gentlemen. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 3407. The Commission also presents minority proposals in the report. The summary of the proposed proposals and the amendment were sent to the ladies and gentlemen for print No 3407. We will vote first on the proposals for rejecting the draft law in its entirety, the proposals for minorities and the amendment tabled in the second reading. In the first minority proposal and the same conclusions put forward during the second reading, applicants propose that the draft law be rejected in its entirety. The adoption of these proposals will render the remaining proposals futile. There are questions. The questions are raised by Barbara Dolniak, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u672	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill has four regulations after the auto-correction. Four of the most important two are incompatible with a number of provisions of EU law, various legal acts which the State, the majority of the Sejm, treats as a stepmother, but is also incompatible with a number of provisions of the Constitution, including. in Article 2, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The 32nd Constitution, which says that everyone is equal to the law. How, then, is it possible that you divide the judge into those who will be able to appeal and those who will not be able to file this appeal? On what grounds? Please indicate to us the legal basis, the provision of the Constitution or any other provision that says that you can divide people into those who have the right to appeal and those who do not have that right. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u673	Thank you. Mr Borys Budka, Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u674	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! A very simple question for applicants. Why are you lying to the public, claiming that you are executing the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, since this judgment has not yet been published in due form, i.e. justified? Why are you lying to the public, claiming that the Constitutional Tribunal ordered the rules to be eliminated, while he was absolutely not involved in these rules? Isn't it that you are proposing de facto polyxit, de facto you are proposing to try to avoid a ruling by the Court of Justice of the European Union because you are so afraid that you will lose again? You lose 27 to 1, you lose in every field in the European Union, you lose the budget for Poland, and right now you lose this ruling. You must remember that the EUSF will not be bound by non-European and non-democratic law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u675	Thank you. Mr Waldemar Buda, Law and Justice are also asked to ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u676	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The populism of Mr Zenite's speech goes back to the zenith. Ladies and gentlemen! There is no rule, it is certainly not a European rule, and there is certainly no rule that requires the appointment of judges to give them the right to appeal as constitutional or even European law. There are countries like Sweden, Denmark, Norway where there is no such law. [[King Kaczyński.]] Moreover, we are calling constitutional ministers and there is no such right and no one is demanding it, and you expect that in any case you will be able to appeal in the procedure for the appointment of judges. That's ridiculous. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u677	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. [[Corrigendum.]] Who among you is in favour of the proposals to reject the draft law in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 408 Members voted. For - 179, against - 228, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the second minority application, the applicant shall propose to delete Article. 1 in the draft amending act. The question is raised by Barbara Dolniak, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u678	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In its judgment of March 2019, the Constitutional Tribunal did not state that the non-constitutional right to appeal against the resolution of the National Judicial Council was conferred on the Constitutional Tribunal. He merely stated that he raised the issue of unconstitutionality concerning the appeal, the recognition of that appeal by the Supreme Administrative Court. Therefore, there is no reason to believe that the right of appeal is a non-constitutional right. It is entitled to part of the judges, and since it may be entitled to part of the judges, it is impossible to leave the rest of the group. It doesn't matter if it's the judge of the district court, the district court, the appeal court or the judge who's running for judge in the Supreme Court. There's no reason for that. You do not find any argument that this group, this part of the professional group of judges, should be excluded from the right of appeal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u679	Thank you. Mr Boris Budka, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u680	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You have indeed achieved an apogee in terms of ruining the law. In the previous amendment, you proposed an absurd procedure for candidates to appeal to the Supreme Court against the resolutions of the National Judicial Council to the Supreme Administrative Court. This amendment was later challenged by the Attorney General and by the so-called Act. The Constitutional Tribunal's rules, but only those, were found to be incompatible with the Constitution. You guys really have reached the height of stupidity. You make the rules, you sue them, and then you pretend you're fixing anything. Once again, you are breaking the constitutional principles of equality against the law, the right to appeal to the court, but above all, you are breaking the fundamental European principle that everyone has the right to an impartial court. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u681	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the second minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 408 Members voted. For - 156, against - 249, three Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the third minority application, the applicant shall propose to delete Article. 3 in the draft amending act. The adoption of this proposal will render the 4th minority proposal and the amendment futile. The question is asked by Barbara Dolniak, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u682	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3 of this project you wish to introduce a waiver from the law of all pending proceedings concerning appeals of judges who wish to take a stand in the Supreme Court. The question arises as to what is the purpose of this solution. Not that the Supreme Administrative Court, in view of the fact that the proceedings will be dismissed by law, will withdraw the question for a preliminary ruling as unfounded. The withdrawal of this question does not have to be effective at all, because the Court of Justice of the European Union does not have to take account of the withdrawal of the question referred for a preliminary ruling. And yet a very important thing you're forgetting. The Court of Justice of the European Union will examine the legal situation not in force today, but on 14 August 2018. For the moment. [[♪ The bell ♪]] He's gonna study it. Please consider the reasonableness of introducing these solutions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u683	Thank you. Mr Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u684	High Izbo! It is the middle of the night, but what you are proposing is legal barbarism, it is an attempt to legally interfere in the fate of ongoing judicial proceedings at both national and European level, it is an attempt to bring about the redemption of proceedings from appeals of candidates to the Supreme Court, it is the removal of the right to the court. You want, High Izbo, I am speaking here to the Members of the PiS, to vanquish the question for a preliminary ruling that has been asked by the NSA to the Court of Justice in Luxembourg. But it won't work, it's doomed, Mr President, to failure, because on 23 May the opinion of the Court's spokesperson will be known. And the last thing you can't move on to. And that is the question for the Prime Minister, Prime Minister. Do you have the honour to come? here and apologize to the Polish judges for this comparison to collaborators [[♪ The bell ♪]] France Vichy? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u685	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. I am merely pointing out to you that questions must be asked concerning a specific proposal to be voted on, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] the proposal or amendments voted on. [[Will the answer be or won't it?]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the third minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. For - 155, against - 251, holding down 5. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the amendment to the article. The draft law amending the applicant proposes that the proceedings in the cases referred to in that provision be waived by law. The adoption of the amendment will render the 4th minority proposal irrelevant. The question is asked by Mr Borys Budka, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u686	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Very simple question: Are you afraid that you are setting an extremely dangerous precedent... [[Voice from the room: No.]] ... Because maybe you don't understand... [[Voice from the room: No.]] ...what brings with it the introduction of this kind of solution? No one in your government will be able to be sure that his case will be dealt with objectively. For whenever you are in danger of failure, you are retreating, fearing it, and changing the law. You are afraid of independent, objective assessment of what you have done with the Polish justice system.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u687	Mr President, please ask questions about the amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u688	And that is why, ladies and gentlemen, you commit as shameful an act as the remission of ongoing proceedings. But be aware that the Court of Justice will not be bound by these rules, he will rule on the basis of [[♪ The bell ♪]] European law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u689	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. For - 234 against - 151, 27. The Sejm accepted the amendment. 4. The minority's proposal becomes unobtrusive. In the 5th minority proposal to Article. 4 of the draft amending act propose that the law should enter into force 3 months after the date of publication. The questions are asked by Mr Borys Budka, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u690	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I understand that rational arguments do not reach you and not because of the time later, but probably because no rational argument can be understood by those who again violate both European law and the Polish constitution. The proposed amendment concerns the extension of the vacathio legis so that there is no doubt that in your later propaganda you will accuse the TSUE of ruling on the basis of rules that are no longer in place. Even if it's an amendment... Even if you pretend nothing happened, you don't really fix anything with this bill. Once again, you are proving that you absolutely do not understand what control mechanisms are in the European Union. [[Where's the question?]] That is why I have a question, Madame: aren't you just ashamed? Thank you. [[To this amendment? This is your amendment.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u691	That's the question... [[I know, rhetorical.]] It's not even a rhetorical question. What it is, it is. [[What's that? What's that?]] We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the 5th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. For - 168, against - 240, with 4. The Sejm's motion is denied. Before voting on the whole question, Mrs Barbara Dolniak asks.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u692	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, four laws, including the two most important, unconstitutional ones. First, you divide the judges into those who will be entitled to appeal and those who will not be entitled to appeal. It's kind of like dividing the room. The opposition shall be subject to appeal against the Marshal's decision and the majority shall not. Are we talking about equality? I don't think so. [[I think it's the other way around.]] I said it on purpose. [[Voice from the room: Inverse.]] It's not the other way around. I said it on purpose to show you what it's gonna look like. You are asking for the waiver of the proceedings brought by the judges that are pending. You want to force the Supreme Administrative Court to withdraw the question for a preliminary ruling. I would remind you that withdrawal does not mean that this withdrawal will be taken into account by the Court of Justice of the European Union. In addition, this tribunal will examine the legal situation from a different time than now. Show me one provision that gives you such powers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u693	Thank you, Member. Mr Budek has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u694	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! This bill is good for basketball. This law is another legal framework, another amendment which shows that in fact your slogan: Poland is the heart of Europe, but only in one dimension. In fact, you mentally belong to this Eastern Europe, to this Europe of Putin, to this Europe of Lukashenka, to what it thinks... [[Kaczynski.]] ... Erdogan. You, ladies and gentlemen, simply do not understand what the European community is. [[Some of the MPs are hitting the desktops.]] You cannot understand that Europe... [[Marshal, don't you hear?]] ...it's based on values. You cannot understand that the independence of the judiciary is the foundation of every democratic state. You can decide another 100 laws on the Supreme Court. You can change 100 more laws, but there's no one in Europe who treats... [[Voice from the hall: Targowica.]] ...you are serious, because you mentally belong absolutely to the circle of civilization [[♪ The bell ♪]] Eastern Europe. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u695	Thank you, sir. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u696	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mr PiS, You may not respect European values. You may not respect the judges. You may not respect... [[And what are these values?]] ...the constitutional values and legal order in Poland, but 3.5 years ago you promised to change the justice system. You promised the Poles that you would make him more friendly. I would like to ask today: What has changed for the better? This is the ninth amendment of the Supreme Court Act. I would like to ask that perhaps Mr Bud, who defended this project, maybe Prime Minister Morawiecki, maybe Minister Ziobro stood on this speaker today, said whether the cases in the courts have accelerated or are cheaper, whether the courts are more accessible to Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u697	Thank you. [[The question was.]] We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law in its entirety in print No 3407, along with the amendment adopted, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. For - 230, against - 180, holding down 3. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on the National Council of Courts and the Law on the System of Administrative Courts. We return to the examination of item 34 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the International Criminal Police Organisation - Interpol concerning privileges and immunities during 47. The European Regional Conference, signed in Lyon on 9 April 2019. Third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 3400. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the draft print law 3400 in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 408 Members voted. For - 405, against - no one, stopped 3. The Sejm passed a law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the International Criminal Police Organisation - Interpol concerning privileges and immunities during 47. The European Regional Conference, signed in Lyon on 9 April 2019. We would like to return to the discussion of item 35 of the agenda: Request for a vote of distrust towards the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Marek G grubarczyk. Let me remind you that according to the article. Point (c) of paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland Sejm expresses the vote of distrust by a majority of the statutory number of Members. The Commission has taken a negative view of the proposal. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the motion to express a vote of distrust towards the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Mark Grywarczyk, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. The statutory majority is 231. 155 voted against - 244, with 12 abstentions. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] I state that, in the absence of the required majority of votes, the Sejm rejected the request to express a vote of distrust to the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, Mr Mark Gróbarczyk. [[Prime Minister, give him a keel!]] [[Sit down.]] I draw Mr. Sławomir Nitras' attention not to shout. [[But give him a keel.]] Again, I draw Mr. Nitras' attention not to shouting. We return to the examination of item 36 of the agenda: Request for a vote of distrust towards the Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska. Let me remind you that according to the article. Point (c) of paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland Sejm expresses the vote of distrust by a majority of the statutory number of Members. The Commission has taken a negative view of the proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of your Members is in favour of the motion to express a vote of distrust towards the Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. The statutory majority is 231. The vote was 180, against 228, with two abstentions. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] [[Some Members are chanting: PCK! PCK!]] [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] In the absence of the required majority of votes, the Sejm rejected the motion to express a vote of distrust to the Minister of National Education, Ms Annie Zalewska. [[Container plus.]] We are returning to the examination of item 24 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government draft law amending the Law on State aid to raise children and certain other laws. Amendments were tabled during the second reading of the bill. In view of the proposal to refer this proposal to the committee again, an objection was raised in order to submit an additional report. I will put to the vote the proposal to refer this proposal back to the committee. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm will proceed without delay to the third reading of the bill without referring to the committee. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of referring this project back to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy in order to present an additional report, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. For - 155, against - 252, holding down 5. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed to the third reading. A summary of the amendments tabled was attached to print No 3389. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 3389. Amendments 1 and 2 have been tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the State aid law for raising children. In the first amendment to Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants propose a different amount of education. Amendment 3 to the Law amending the article is combined with this amendment. 6a. We will vote on them together. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 1 and 3, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 409 Members voted. For -6 against -374, the 29. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the second amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 5a. Amendment 4 to the Law amending the article is combined with this amendment. 9a. We will vote on them together. The question is asked by Mr Richard Petru, near Now! [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u698	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! No money for teachers, no residents, no disability... [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] ...but they are for relatively wealthy Poles who would have managed without 500+ easily. For these 5 billion savings, teachers' increases of PLN 600 per month could be boldly financed. If, according to the concordat, the state budget had stopped paying for religious lessons in schools, the church would have paid them, a total of PLN 850 increase for teachers would have been sufficient. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] The money in Poland is, just enough not to be wasteful. There are fewer and fewer children born during your reigns. 500+ is not a social program. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Mr. Marshal, are you deaf?]] So it's a social program and it shouldn't go to the wealthy. The wasteful state is a petty state, insensitive, ruthless and cynical... [[Mr. Marshal!]] ...gives it to those who do not expect it, and forgets those who need it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u699	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of Amendments 2 and 4, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: Hands out of your pocket!]] 410 Members voted. For - 16, against - 366, with 28 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. [[At least smile.]] Before the vote on the whole, there are questions. Mr Richard Petru, near Now!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u700	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] It is not true that what is promised will not be received. In order to develop, Poland will have to correct your electoral wastefulness. No developed country can afford such queues in health care as they are in Poland. And there'll still be queues like that if we spend all our money on 500+. No responsible country can afford as low the salaries of teachers as they are in Poland, and such low wages will be because you will spend all your money on 500+. No country that thinks about development would allow itself to be robbed by entrepreneurs that are taking place in Poland. And the entrepreneurs will still be looted because they'll still be short on 500+. For if we spend all our money on 500+ and 13, we will run out of money for the basic needs of the state. Poland can develop through work, not through benefits. I warn against the excessiveness of the High House. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u701	Thank you. Mr Paweł Pudłowski, the Modern Club, has the floor. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u702	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Congratulations on your good humor. But the case is very serious. The State as a result of this law spends 10 this year, and in the next 20 billion PLN. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] All five of Mr Kaczyński's president will cost 43 billion PLN. I would like to ask you to come out here, Minister of Finance, Minister Czerwińska and honestly, with your hand on your heart, to say that we can afford it, and to say honestly, where will this money come from, that it will be from increased taxes, that it will be from increased charges... [[Like what?]] ...that they'll be from an extra debt to say that a lie is what a person who doesn't want to give his name from inside the Ministry of Finance... [[Voice from the room: Took away the thieves.]] ...which says that for this year alone, through creative accounting, you are able to make ends meet, and next year, given that there may be an economic downturn, we cannot afford it. [[Voice from the room: Don't make it up.]] [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Don't insinuate.]] Really consider whether you can vote responsibly for this. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u703	Thank you. Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u704	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! During the debate, Minister, I tried to ask the question as last to get an answer to this question. As I said before, economists say that these problems, why young people don't want to, are not determined to create, means to have new children, among others. high cost of living children, families. [[Game in the O.R.]] We have therefore submitted this project, which talks about reducing taxation, among others. clothes for children from 23% to 5%. This is a good project that might contribute to this, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] I thought the costs would go down a little bit. Can we therefore count on this, Minister, that we will continue this project during this term of office? I'd really like an answer. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Answer.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u705	Thank you very much. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print no. 3389, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 407 Members voted. For - 379, against - 20, with a hold of 8. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on State aid to raise children and certain other laws. [[Applause]] We return to the examination of item 31 of the agenda: the report of the Extraordinary Commission on the draft law submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the Labour Code Act and some other laws. Third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 3372. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no 3372, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 405 Members voted. For -401, against -2, holding off on 2. The Sejm passed a law amending the Labour Code Act and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 32 of the agenda: Report of the Health Committee on the draft Act on National Oncology Strategy presented by the President of the Republic of Poland. Third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 3383. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 3383, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 408 Members voted. For - 387 against - no one, holding off on 21. The Sejm passed the Act on National Oncology Strategy. We are returning to the examination of item 21 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the Government's draft law on the amendment of the Employment Promotion Act and the institutions of the labour market. Third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 3370. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 3370, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 409 Members voted. For - 406, against -3, no one stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Employment Promotion Act and the institutions of the labour market. We are returning to the review of item 22 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies and the Committee on Infrastructure on the Government draft law amending the Road Transport Act and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 3395-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Bogdan Rzońca to present an additional report to the committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u706	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the joint committees: the Committee on Digitalisation, Innovation and Modern Technology and the Committee on Infrastructure, I present an additional print report No 3395. Two very important committees have gathered on a very important law, a very good law that solves a huge problem that has so far been faced by various governments, different types of entrepreneurs. On the other hand, in this draft law we are talking about the fact that Poland will finally have a sustainable market for competing taxi service providers, saying the best. The very well described criteria make it a balance in this market. I therefore recommend, on behalf of the two joint committees, the adoption of Amendments 1, 3 and 5 as very good amendments and the rejection of Amendments 2, 4 and 5. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u707	Thank you. Let me remind you, it's print number 3395. The committees are asking for the bill to be passed. The amendments set out in the additional report will be voted first. Amendments 1 to 3 were submitted to the Road Transport Act. In Amendment 1. to Article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 applicants propose to add a new wording to point 4. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 407 Members voted. For - 242, against - 138, with 27. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 2. to Article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 applicants propose to add a new point 7. The committees are asking for the amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendment 2, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 407 Members voted. For - 156, against - 232, holding 19. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment, applicants propose amendments to the inserted article. 13b. The committees are asking for her party. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 3rd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. For - 264, against - 2, 144 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th Amendment to the Road Traffic Law, applicants propose to add an article. 76a. The committees are asking for the amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 4th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 407 Members voted. For - 174, against - 230, holding down 3. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In Amendment 5, the applicants propose the addition of Article. 4a. The adoption of this amendment will render amendment 6 irrelevant. The committees are asking for her party. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendment 5, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. For - 247, against - 143, 20 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. The 6th amendment is without object. Before voting on the whole question is asked by Mirosław Suchoń, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u708	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The question has to be asked because there has been a modern project in the Seym freezer for 2 years that has regulated the market. It was a project discussed, consulted. And I don't understand, maybe the Minister will explain to the High House why he tolerated the sick situation on the market for two years, tolerating the fact that taxes were not actually paid, as they should have been paid. And suddenly there's a project that goes through the High House in 24 hours. And Minister, the first question is, why did you wait two years? And the second question is, what are you trying to hide by doing this project at such an express rate? Is it true that the longer the committee's deliberations lasted, the more doubts and questions were raised about the real consequences of these rules. [[♪ The bell ♪]] One of these effects will be to include these new regulations for those businesses that are free to operate taxis today. This is ridiculous. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u709	Thank you, sir. The issue of lying in the so-called 2-year-old. The freezer needs to be explained, because here we don't recall this happening. [[It's a choice amnesia.]] [[2 years.]] [[Voice from the hall: We will remind you of everything.]] We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print no. 3395, along with the amendments adopted, will be willing to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. For -231, against -9, with a hold of 171. The Sejm passed a law amending the Road Transport Act and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 30 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the government draft law amending the law on the shaping of the agricultural system and certain other laws. The additional report shall be in print No 3384-A. Third reading. I ask Robert Telus to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u710	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Seym! During the second reading, the opposition tabled 19 amendments. The Commission suggests that you reject all 19 amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u711	Thank you, sir. Let me remind you, it's print number 3384. The amendments set out in the additional report will be voted first. Amendments 1 to 9 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Act on the shaping of the agricultural system. In the first amendment to Article. 1 point 2 of the draft proposal, applicants shall propose a different wording of point (a). a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, the Civic Platform Club. [[Room voice: Bravo, Zbyszek.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u712	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! I do not hide that I like how Prime Minister Morawiecki drives around the country and says the following things: Panacea to solve many problems of fragmented Polish agriculture is cooperative cooperatives of farmers. I want to be clear: Yes, Prime Minister, you are right. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: Where is the Prime Minister?]] But that's the sentence of the Civic Platform for three years. [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] We're very happy about that. We've tabled 15 amendments. The vote on these amendments will be a test, Prime Minister, your credibility in the countryside. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u713	We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 400 Members voted. For - 172, against - 220, with a hold of 8. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 1 the draft applicants propose amendments to point 5. Amendments 8, 9 are combined with this amendment. 11, 14 and 17. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Their adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 3. We're voting. Who is in favour of Amendments 2, 8, 9, 11, 14 and 17, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 408 Members voted. For-- 145, against-- 238, holding off on 25. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the third amendment to the article. Article 2a (2) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 3 The applicant's laws propose a different wording of point 1a. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Jarosław Sachajko, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u714	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The amendment aims to clarify the intention of the legislator and clearly points out that the buyer of 1 ha is to be a natural person. Poles want to live in the country, they want to buy Polish land. But as it turned out, in the course of the opinion of this amendment. Media speculation has been confirmed: this is the law of the lex developer, [[Applause]] a law that will help developers buy land cheaply, not Poles who want to live in the country. Why do you care so much about capital companies and not about Poles who want to live in the country? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u715	Minister Romanowski is ready to respond, isn't he? Deputy Minister of Agriculture Rafał Romanowski will answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u716	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! He himself knows that as regards land up to 1 ha, i.e. the range between 0.3 and zero and four decimal places, the National Agricultural Support Centre retains the right to buy and this is an important element in this law on shaping the agricultural system, including agricultural land located within the administrative borders of cities, so there will be no possibility of any speculation here. [[Applause]] [[Let's see how many times it's used.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u717	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of Amendment 3, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 409 Members voted. For - 161, against - 225, halted 23. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. Article 2a (2) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 3 The applicant's laws propose that point 9 be deleted. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Jarosław Sachajko, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u718	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! The aim of the amendment is to protect farmers from being indebted by financial institutions, which should be a partner for farmers rather than a trap. However, in the course of the opinion of the amendment, I was enlightened and understood what was going on with the ministry. It's not about protecting farmers. It's about getting the land to go to the hands of people who live in cities. It's a new social engineering in the country. The current farmers need to be indebted, bided and transferred to the bachelorettes in the cities, while at the same time moving the farmers from Marszałkowska to the village, or actually probably from the village. So we should say out loud today: contrary to what you preach in the countryside, the land will be able to buy everyone. And now all that's left is waiting for the farmers to fail and to be bid on and taken over. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why do you deprive farmers of their land? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u719	Thank you. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendment 4, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 401 Members voted. For - 159, against - 238, with a hold of 4. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. Point 8 of the draft proposal proposes to add point 1. Uh-huh. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 5th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. Za - 176, against - 230, with 4. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 point 4 of the Act, the applicant shall propose a different wording of point (a) of the Act. b. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 6th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 406 Members voted. For - 147, against - 246, the 13. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete the addition of Article in the Act. 4b. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 7th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 409 Members voted. For - 158, against - 228, holding off on 23. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Amendments 10 to 16 were tabled in Article. 3 draft amending law containing amendments to the Law on the Management of Agricultural Real Estate of the State Treasury. In the 10th amendment to the article. 22 The applicant's laws propose a different wording. 2. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Jarosław Sachajko, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u720	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! The aim of the amendment is to protect Poles from the backstage debt of the state land. The amendment serves to safeguard our common ownership against the imprudentness of unpunished officials and the possibility of debting Poles outside the official mechanism and the need to disclose this fact in an increased deficit. Why is Law and Justice creating a new mechanism to continue, this time masked from Poles by the debt of our children? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u721	Thank you. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendment 10, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 398 Members voted. It was 42, against 244, holding 112. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 12th amendment to the article. 24b The applicant's laws propose a different wording of paragraph 24b. 1 and to add paragraph. 2a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Accepting it will result in the unobtrusiveness of Amendment 13. The question is asked by Mr Dorota Niedziela, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u722	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I just want to ask you, is it true that now KOWR officials will be able to raise a debt on the state land of PLN 1 billion. [[Voice from the room: It is not true.]] This debt will be able to charge the agricultural land, which should be used in the Constitution for the expansion of farms, family farms, and not for mortgage debts to KOWR officials. It's a really dangerous record. This is really a scandal and a payoff. [[Grand scandals...]] Consider whether you will leave in the act a record according to which the KOWR official will be able to decide whether or not to take 1 billion zlotys of loans for agricultural land. These are thousands of acres of land... [[Mothers of the earth.]] ...which will be pawned and which can be taken over by the bank. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u723	The Minister wants to answer? There you go. Deputy Minister of Agriculture Rafał Romanowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u724	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The answer is very simple. As if the Member had returned to the article. 22 of the proposed law is in the article. 22 is clearly written: with the agreement of the Minister responsible for rural development, this is a very simple answer. We are very sorry that this Agricultural Property Resource of the State Treasury has lost nearly 900 thousand in the last eight years. ha. [[What about in four years?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u725	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of Amendment 12, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 402 Members voted. For - 140, against - 242, stopped 20. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 13th amendment to the article. 24b The applicant's laws propose a different wording of paragraph 24b. 1. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Jarosław Sachajko, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u726	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! The amendment aims to respect the law described both in the Constitution and in the Article. 23, where it is written directly that the basis of the agricultural system is the family farm and the law on the formation of the agricultural system, where the farm is considered to be a family farm which has up to 300 hectares, but most importantly, is linked to the call of farmers who ask for this land. Why, or should I ask: for whom do you want to create these new giant agricultural production centres? Why you do not want to respond to farmers' calls, among others. The farmers of the "Solidarity" RI to hand over this land to farmers, but do you want to create years on the public land? Are these supposed to be the new PGR bis now called agricultural production centres? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u727	We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of Amendment 13, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 408 Members voted. For - 167, against - 238, holding down 3. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 15th amendment to the article. 39 (1) (a) 2 The applicant's laws propose to add point 8. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 15th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 409 Members voted. For-- 154, against-- 250, holding off on five. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 16th amendment to the article. 3 the draft applicants propose to delete point 14. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 16th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 408 Members voted. For - 154, against - 231, halted 23. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 18th amendment, applicants propose to add an article in the draft law. 4b including an amendment to the law on the consolidation and exchange of land. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 18th amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 405 Members voted. For - 143, against - 235, with 27. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Before the vote on the whole, there are questions. Mr Kazimierz Plocke, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u728	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The provisions contained in the draft agricultural system law are primarily an attempt to repair the PiS errors of 2016. The rules are of an ad hoc nature and strengthen the power of officials over the process of agricultural land trading in Poland. In the end, tenants' holdings are also to be removed, and I will remind you that these are the most efficient farms in Poland, and we will really lead to another plotation of these land, which is the opposite process than it is applied throughout Europe. We also point out that thanks to this area, we will lead to a reduction in competitiveness, efficiency of agricultural production in Poland. These regulations that are being discussed today in the High Izbo are a kind of leap on agricultural land and money, which is why my club will not support this draft law. Thank you. [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u729	Thank you. Mr Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u730	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, If you had accepted the amendments of the Modern Club 3 years ago, today this amendment would have been practically unnecessary. This amendment is three years late and insufficient in many areas, but unfortunately also dangerous in many areas. As a club, we will not accept this proposal, because there are such records that further agree, and very much so, to the private property of Polish farmers. I have a question to the Minister: Is it true that in 2017 foreigners acquired more than 1 000 in Poland. ha agricultural land and forest land? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u731	Thank you. Member Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u732	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! This law belongs to laws in which there are many good solutions. There is no doubt that we are helping farmers, including farmers. We shorten the period when they have to hold the land, they can't sell it, and we allow easier handing it over to children. We could list a few of these things here. At the same time, there are articles that simply contradict common sense, just like the ones I was talking about: lex developer [[Applause]] whether this amendment concerning the construction of agricultural and land production centres, which should be passed on to farmers. That's why there's no discipline in our club, and everyone in their heart will have to judge, [[♪ The bell ♪]] whether he is more in favour of commercialization or protection of the Polish land. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u733	Thank you, sir. The Minister of Agriculture, Krzysztof Ardanowski, asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u734	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First, I'm gonna answer Mrs. Hennig-Voice. In Poland in 2017, foreigners bought 70.64 ha. [[Voice from the room: What about the rest?]] [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: That is not true!]] I'm telling you exactly what I'm saying. [[What about European farmers outside Poland?]] On the other hand, there is a more serious problem here, but confirming the purpose or meaning of this law. Do we really want to limit large land ownership in Poland and this land for the expansion of family farms? Yeah, that's what we want to do. This is a fundamental dispute. Mr Plocke claims that this is a mistake, that it is necessary to maintain large land ownership, and we are just trying to transfer as much land as possible to farmers. [[Applause]] But we need to see the fact that in Poland there are several thousand large farms, which have several hundred hectares or several thousand hectares, which have real estate in the form of buildings, the necessary infrastructure. It's also a huge value. A country that takes care of its assets cannot lead to the removal of these infrastructure parts - these habitats, these pigsty houses, these barns, these warehouses, these silos, these squares - the land that is the basis for production. Therefore, the creation of these organized units is that the land that will return to the stock will be analysed by the National Agricultural Support Centre. It will examine how much land is needed for these buildings to continue to function as a production farm. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Then we also save the substance. If these are buildings that are devastated, not of great value, then the property will be finished. On the other hand, if these are buildings of considerable value, they must not be deprived of their land, because no one will buy these buildings. [[Applause]] It also seems to be logical. Therefore, the analysis of KOWR, the cold economic analysis, will determine how much land should remain in these buildings. This farm will also be leased to farmers, the stronger, the stronger, to those who would like to run it, while all the remaining land will be divided into smaller areas, into smaller plots, into smaller parcels, to power all the surrounding farms that they will. This seems to be a very necessary and very expected solution for farmers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u735	Thank you very much. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Sorry, corrigendum.]] [[Mr. Marshal, can't you see?]] Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print no. 3384, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 404 Members voted. For - 239, against - 144, holding 21. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on the formation of agricultural systems and certain other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 37 of the agenda: the report of the Health Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Pharmaceutical Law and certain other laws (Prints Nos 3385 and 3402). I ask Mrs Bernadet Krynicka to submit a report to the committee. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u736	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Health, I have the honour to present a report on the Senate's resolution on the Law amending the Pharmaceutical Law and certain other laws, print No 3385. On 17 April 2019 the Marshal of the Sejm sent the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Committee on Health for consideration. The Health Commission, having considered this resolution at its meeting on 25 April 2019, asks the High Sejm to accept the Senate amendments set out in paragraphs 1 and 2. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u737	Thank you, Member. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. We will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate's amendments. Both amendments were tabled by the Senate to the Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Pharmaceutical Law Act. In the 1st Amendment, the Senate proposes among others. add a new sentence in Article. Article 37ata (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply from the date of entry into force of this Regulation. 8. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the first amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 403 Members voted. No one voted for them against - 402, abstained from 1. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 86a paragraph. Point 1 (4) of the Senate proposes that the medicinal products referred to in that provision be authorised in public stores and in specialised medical supplies stores. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you is against the 2nd amendment, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 406 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the examination of item 28 of the agenda: Election of the Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal (Prints No 3382 and 3390). [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] On the basis of the article. Paragraph 194. 1 Constitution of the Republic of Poland and Art. 2 (2) 2 Act on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, as well as Article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and paragraph 1. Point 3 (2) in conjunction with Article. Article 26 (2) (b) 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, a group of Members has nominated Mr Wojciech Sycha as Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. Please take the floor of Mr Mark Ast to present Mr Wojciech Sycha's candidacy.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u738	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of Members of the Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present Mr Wojciech Sycha's candidacy as judge of the Constitutional Court. Mr. Wojciech Sych was born on 12 October 1963 in Gniezno. In his hometown, he graduated from general school and graduated from the Faculty of Law and Administration at the University. Adam Mickiewicz in Poznań, who graduated in 1987. After taking the application and taking the prosecutor's exam on 11 October 1990, he worked in the District Attorney's Office in September first as an assistant and since 30 November 1991 as a prosecutor. By order of the President of the Republic of Poland, he was appointed Judge of the Regional Court on 3 August 1995. He worked in the District Court in Poznań and in the District Court in Gniezno, and after the appointment of the District Court judge on 8 May 2001 until October 2018 he worked in the District Court in Poznań. Within the delegation from November 2013 to February 2016, he ruled in the Appeal Court in Poznań and between September and November 2017 in the Supreme Court. By order of the President of the Republic of Poland of 10 October 2018, he was appointed Judge of the Supreme Court. Under the direction of Prof. Stanisław Stachowiak, he wrote his doctoral thesis at the Department of Criminal Procedure at the University of Warsaw. Adam Mickiewicz in Poznań and in 2005 received a degree in doctor of law. He is the author or co-author of monographs, textbooks, articles and voice in the field of criminal, procedural and material law and implementing criminal law. Since 2012, he has been a permanent lecturer at the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. Between December 2013 and January 2016, he was a member of the Criminal Law Codification Commission. Both education and extensive professional experience indicate that Mr Wojciech Sych is a good candidate for a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u739	Thank you. I ask Mr Waldemar Buda to present the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u740	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Justice and Human Rights, after considering the proposal for the election of a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal on 24 April 2019, decided to give a positive opinion following the discussion. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u741	Thank you, sir. Would any of you like to take the floor on your candidacy? [[Voice from the room: No.]] Member Robert Winnicki from the Posel Confederation Circle came forward. I propose that the Sejm listen to two minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in this matter. I'm opening a discussion. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u742	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask what Mr. Wojciech Sycha's views on eugenic abortion were about, because I'll remind you that for a year and a half... [[Room voice: One-and-a-half.]] ...the Constitutional Court is requested by 107 Members, mostly by Members of the PiS, to consider this subject. [[Voice from the hall: There is a Polish language.]] The motion has been laid for one and a half years in this court that you have recovered, which you have been fetching, is being blocked by Mrs. Przyłębska. The truth is... [[Voice from the room: Independent...]] Who's independent? You must be mocking me, my fellow Member. Mrs Przyłębska is blocking this application three times longer than it was considered in the 1990s. [[Voice from the room: Ooh.]] It means that you are not creating any new quality, but you are creating the III RP encore, but that these matters are dealt with three more times. The truth is that politicized by you even more than he was for the Civic Platform, the Constitutional Tribunal is blocking the stopping of eugenic abortion today. $20,000. The signatures of Kaja Godek, the confederation candidate in this case, you also throw them in the trash. You're deaf and blind to over 800,000. the signatures of the right Poles who want to ban eugenic abortion, and you politicized Constitutional Tribunal is blocking this case. That is the truth about your PiS hypocrisy in the subject of protecting the conceived life. You've always voted for how you knew it wouldn't happen if you were in opposition, and you're blocking all projects by ruling. That's hypocrisy, that's wiping your mouth with the highest values. Unfortunately, that's the truth.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u743	Mr Budek, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u744	Good morning. Mr. Marshal, it's time to address your marshal in this way, because we'll be here in a day. Once again, we are voting on the nomination to the Constitutional Tribunal under the cover of the night. If my previous speaker had used the Internet a little better, he would know very well that this candidacy is being applied for, among others. so as to try and tighten up abortion laws through the Constitutional Tribunal after the elections. We know very well that the President has chickened out against the black protest, and very well. Once again, great respect for Polish women. However, they will try to do so through the Constitutional Tribunal. In fact, you choose another person who does not enjoy any estimate in the scientific or judicial environment. Moreover, the candidate compromised himself during the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, not knowing the fundamental constitutional principles and trying to convince us that the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal should be sworn in and only then his term of office begins. During the hearing of the candidate before the committee, there was an extraordinary situation, because he really played politics rather than a candidate for the tribunal. In fact, once again you send a person according to the bmw principle, just to make the so-called. The Constitutional Tribunal held judgments or pseudo-ordinaries similar to the judgment of 25 March this year. Once again, you're proving that you don't understand the division of power, you don't understand the separation of judicial authority by sending this kind of candidate to the tribunal. My club will vote against this candidacy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u745	Mr Waldemar Buda, the Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u746	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! 4 years as a prosecutor, 23 years as a judge, starting with the district court, district court, appeal court, delegation to the Supreme Court and Supreme Court judge, many publications, a doctorate in law, is not enough education and competence to serve as a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal? [[Voice from the room: It is not.]] Shame, ladies and gentlemen, you don't have to attack such a person. But why be surprised, ladies and gentlemen, today the Civic Platform in Krakow was able to block Agnieszka Radwanska's candidacy as an honorary citizen. Well, what are you hoping for? Thank you. [[Shame!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u747	The discussion is closed. Let's move on to the vote. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights has given a positive opinion on Mr Wojciech Sycha's candidacy as judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. According to Art. Article 26 (2) (b) 1 in conjunction with Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, the Sejm shall elect the Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal by an absolute majority. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of choosing Mr Wojciech Sycha as judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 365 Members voted. The absolute majority is 183. It was 228 against 118, with 19. [[Applause]] I state that the Sejm has chosen Mr Wojciech Sycha as Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal by an absolute majority. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 25 April this year, with a few extra hours. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. There are five Members. If anybody wants to turn themselves in, you're welcome. I'm declaring a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 2 minutes 25 hours 2 min 27]] I'm reopening the session. We're continuing with the Members' statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's reporting. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. Please take the floor of Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u748	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank the on strike teachers for teaching the rulers today a lesson, a lesson of humility and responsibility, which is lacking in the current government. The fact that ZNP suspended the strike until September is not a capitulation, as they wrote on the stripes on PiS TV. You won because the Polish school became the topic number one in the whole country. The government now shows that they don't need teachers. The current government has had a lot of time since January this year, when the Polish Teachers' Union submitted requests and suggestions for discussions on this issue. Only in the face of the strike and the threat of high school exams in express, day-to-day mode, has he passed a law by the Sejm, a law that no one needs anymore. It's just ruining the law. What else can be ruined? Couldn't it have been prevented before? Would it be such a big dishonor for the current government if it had been talking to teachers from the position of partner rather than just from the position of authority? I support teachers and their demands. I call on the government to implement the right demands of teachers. For several weeks on television so-called. public sips of venom on teachers and trade unions. You try to convince Poles that the Polish Teachers' Union is responsible for the chaos in education. The truth is different. The only thing that's to blame is the government and the lack of agreement on your part. Teachers protest because the government did not want to talk about the future of the Polish school, i.e. the future of the entire generation, whether it would be educated or not. Despite the great responsibility of the Polish Teachers Association and the suspension of the strike, the PiS continues to push this law, which is incompatible with the Constitution, in express mode and without consultation. The government doesn't want an agreement with the teachers and doesn't want to talk anymore. Power behaves like communions, but the education of a whole generation of our children is too important. Let us not forget who is responsible for the chaos at the Polish school. Just the government. The deformity of the education system, the liquidation of the middle school, two years in September, means much more work for teachers and money as small. At the same time for public television there were 1,26 billion PLN or 20 million PLN for Rydzyk's father's school. We're all behind seniors, but we're all behind teachers. We support your demands and will not forget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u749	Mr Kurzepa, the Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u750	Dear Marshal! Dear High Izbo! Great Honorable Environment of Polish Children of War! With a kind of anxiety typical of the state connected with the fact that we care about something, I expect the inauguration of the Third National Congress of the Environment of Polish Children of War, which will take place on 8 May 2019 in the column room of the Polish Sejm. For 3 years, thanks to the Parliamentary Group for Environmental Support of Polish Children of War, which I am running, we meet in the Polish Parliament at national conventions to remind them of ourselves in order to give them a clear signal that we are this troubled generation whose biography is marked by the experience of World War II. It was then that our lives were permanently branded with fear-free images of the cruel death of our loved ones, or with bullock blows or gunshot wounds that were supposedly scarred, although only physically, while in consciousness they were bleeding, pulsating with a constant sense of danger. How long does it take for barbed wire to keep a man from being free to forget? Is it possible to blur the image of the German and Soviet soldiers raped by their mother, sister or themselves? How can you cope with the amazement that haunted you when you collected the remains of the bodies of your loved ones or your neighbors who were torn apart by a cannon bullet, or to forget the sweet and biting smell of the burning bodies of your villagers who were driven to church or barn and burned down there? Today, when you are 70 and 80 years old, many years after the start of World War II, it neither pales nor hurts less. Paradoxically, this memory becomes more tangible, because the body is weakening, all suffered in the youth of suffering and often speak with painful echoes and dysfunctions. And the eyes are tearing because more of the nearest ones are already there on the other side. So I am remembering, recalling them from memory, and then I don't feel the loneliness and fear like when I saw the firing squad and the last glimpse of my mother or father, which, like the endless destruction, illuminates or deepens my sorrow. So we will come to the Polish Parliament on 8 May to ask you again, Poland, if you remember properly the sacrifice of our sufferings, our lost childhood, and you appreciate what we did for Poland after the war, rebuilding it and loving it after all. So to meet, Poland, with your children of war. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u751	Thank you. Mr Krystyna Skowrońska, PO-KO, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u752	The first citizens' initiative in Poland was launched in Rzeszów on 24 April. What do the residents of Rzeszow want? Amendments to the resolution of the Sejmik Voivodship Podkarpackie on the revision of the waste management plan for the Podkarpackie Voivodship, introduced by the resolution of 25 March this year, setting out, among others. location of the waste storage site in Rzeszów on ul. It's a Twelve. In this place, vehicles that import hazardous waste will be directed to this place by the National Tax Administration or the Road Transport Inspection. The minimum distance of such a parking lot from houses or blocks is 300 m according to applicable regulations. The buildings are closer here. The location is contrary to applicable law. In this regard, the Rzeszów City Council objected in its resolution of 23 April. In preparing a resolution initiative, this citizens' initiative, a committee was set up and signatures were collected. This is an important initiative for the residents of Rzeszow. My appeal to the Marshal of the voivodship from Law and Justice: Your actions are against the law. They expose residents and residents of Rzeszow to threats, to health loss, and in extreme cases of life. Citizens in this initiative will not allow this. Why isn't the Marshal of the Podkarpackie Voivodship from Law and Justice talking to protesters about clean air in Mielec? On April 12, 14th, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] laying down detailed rules for the application of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union It was in front of one of Mielec's workplaces. Me and the inhabitants of Mielec demand information from the Marshal of Podkarpackie Voivodeship, whether the standards of the issued integrated permit and air quality standards are met, and whether measures are being taken to support entrepreneurs to undertake the modernisation of factories in order to make the air clean. I intervene in the matter of clean air. Unfortunately, I have not heard of a law and justice MEP living in Mielec taking any action on this matter, nor have I heard of the intervention of the Marshal of the voivodship from Law and Justice in this matter either. The truth about electricity prices. Entrepreneurs and local governments pay higher electricity bills despite the announcement by Prime Minister Morawiecki in December 2018 that electricity prices will not increase. So what's the PiS-owska truth about electricity prices? There is no relevant regulation, because this is something that needs to be agreed with the European Union. They pay more for electricity from the entrepreneur, which is why we pay more for shopping in shops. All local governments and their companies pay more for electricity, so there is less money for investments and there is more money for trash and water bills that people pay. The Prime Minister lied to the Poles that the electricity wouldn't go too far. PiS lied to Poles and Poles will remember it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u753	Mr Jan Mosiński, Mr Law and Justice has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u754	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The teachers' strike is over. I think it's a great opportunity to thank a large number of volunteers working in the examination boards, in the middle school exams and in the 8th grade, to thank school heads, parents of children and young people, but also young people themselves, who at this difficult time undoubtedly passed the test of maturity. I think that this strike should not take place, and if it does, it should end on the same day that it was proclaimed, because the final effects of this strike do not exist and the teachers who participated in it may feel a little bruised, because of the fault of the leaders of this protest, of course. Therefore, High Izbo, in the light of recent events, is particularly positive in terms of the agreement signed by the National Section of Education and Education Workers of the NSZZ.Solidarity with the Government. Let us remind you of some important parts of this agreement: among others. 15% increase this year, shortening the path of promotion, fixing the amount of the allowance for education at the level of PLN 300, changes in the system of evaluation of teachers and reduction of bureaucracy, additional paid hours at the disposal of school heads, so no more so-called. In late June and July, a new system of remuneration is likely to enter into force or a new system of remuneration will be developed. These are concrete benefits, High Izbo, and once again thank you to both the head of the educational solidarity of Mr Proks, my colleague, and the government of the Republic of Poland. No organization has been able to negotiate such a large one-off increase in education. As Mr Proks said: It is fortunate that Mr Solidarity signed this agreement because teachers would be left with nothing. That is why it is so important to want to talk so that we want to have a dialogue on the basis of which dialogue should be conducted. I am quite sure that the Solidarity Party will be the side of the Round Table tomorrow. I also hope that this round table will bring further good solutions for the teaching community, so that they do not have to protest again in autumn this year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u755	Thank you. Mr Jan Szyszko, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u756	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On 25 March of this year, members of the International Institute of Humanities and Natural Sciences addressed the public opinion of the world represented also by the largest scientific and political authorities with an appeal to participate in a substantive dialogue on the future of the Białowieża Forest. This dialogue must be conducted on the basis of truth, that is, sound scientific research, ethics and law. This appeal is supported by the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 17 April 2018 in the case of the Białowieża Forest. It points out that the most important thing for the operation of the Natura 2000 network is to preserve the integrity of the different areas of the network, and in the present case, the integrity of the PLC 200004 Białowieża Forest. This integrity has been drastically violated by the disappearance of habitats and species in a significant area of the Białowieża Forest. This was due to wrong political and economic decisions, which was confirmed by research in 2016. Thousands of hectares of habitats and species that exist there were lost, important for the Natura 2000 species. They rot millions of cubic meters of wood worth more than PLN 1 billion, from which even the local population cannot benefit from fuel and buy high-carbon, expensive coal from across the eastern border. After finding this fact regarding the loss of the integrity of the area, Poland legally started the repair process in 2017 and was immediately subjected to a baseless criticism, both in Poland and beyond its borders. The Polish authorities and Poles were accused, and especially Polish foresters, of the fact that, following only profit, they cut out the last original, almost untouched hand of man, the original forest. In 2018, despite the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union on 17 April, the recovery process was stopped. The destruction of the forest continues and only in 2018 several hundred thousand more trees with a mass of 320 thousand have died. m3 and the value of over PLN 60 million. You have to be a very rich country to afford such waste. It is high time that this artificially induced, extremely expensive conflict was explained with respect for the truth and respect for ethics, based on reliable scientific data. Poland has such data and such data must be used in this dialogue. The wilderness can be spoken of in the wilderness in the company of people living in the wilderness, on the basis of specific materials. Persons interested in the dialogue are asked to contact the following addresses: ecodevelopment@ekorozwoj.pl or biuro@ecologicalforummłodziezy.pl. On behalf of the International Institute of Humanities and Natural Sciences, they invited: Prof. Dr. Hab. Paweł Bortkiewicz - moral theologian, prof. dr hab. Tadeusz Guz - a philosopher and my humble person, so Jan Szyszko - an environmentalist. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u757	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Paul Rychlik, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u758	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In 2014 the S8 expressway connecting Wrocław with Warsaw was established, passing through Sieradz. This generated an additional traffic burden in Wieluń on the national roads 45 and 43. These routes run through the city centre with numerous intersections, light signals. In addition, the layout of these intersections makes it difficult to move especially heavy goods vehicles. Transit passing through Wieluń, moving from Opole, Czestochowa, Silesia towards Łódź, Poznań, Warsaw and Wrocław often causes paralysis of the city and often poses a threat to the safety of the inhabitants of Wieluń and the municipality of Wieluń. In addition, local traffic associated with the movement of both the inhabitants of Wieluń and the entire district of Wieluń is imposed on transit traffic. The city authorities have taken action to build an internal midway, but the construction of this road will have little effect on the solution to the communication problems of Wielenia. There are also opinions that say that this solution will cut off half of the city, which is the two largest housing estates. The only appropriate and necessary solution is the construction of an external bypass for these roads, which will allow the removal of truck traffic outside the city. As a Member of the Republic of Poland, and at the same time a citizen of Wieluń, I took steps to bring the communication problem closer to the representatives of the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways and the Ministry of Infrastructure. As a result of the actions undertaken, a 10-km route plan was developed linking national road No 45 with national road No 43 and national road No 74. I hope, indeed, that during the revision of the investment plan for national roads, the need to build the bypass of Wielenia will be welcomed by decision-makers and will be built without undue delay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-25-sejm-80-3.u759	Thank you. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I hereby order the meeting to be adjourned until 3 p.m. 9. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 2 min 50]]
