ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u1	I open the 70th eighth session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I hereby appoint Senator Waldemar Sługocki and Senator Jerzy Wcisła to the secretary of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Waldemar Sługocki. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, on 28 April 2019 Karol Modzelewski, senator of the first term of office, member of the Committee on Initiatives and Legislative Work, the Committee on Immigration and Poles Abroad and the Constitutional Commission, died. He was awarded the Order of the White Eagle and the Bachelor's Cross of the Order of the Rebirth of Poland. Please rise and celebrate with a minute of silence the memory of Senator Prof. Karol Modzelewski. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord.]] [[The gathered answer, "Let eternal light shine upon him."]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] [[It will remain in our memory.]] Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that at its 80th meeting on 26 April 2019 the Sejm adopted all the amendments tabled by the Senate to the Act amending the pharmaceutical law and certain other laws. In the absence of any objections to the minutes of the 70th meeting, I state that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. Dear Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senator benches. The draft agenda, which was sent to the State by electronic means, contained a law amending the Labour Code and certain other laws contained in the third paragraph. The Commission has not prepared a report on this matter and this item has therefore not been included in the draft agenda for approval by the Senate. I propose that items 1 to 18 and item 21 of the draft agenda be considered, although the committee's reports on these matters have been submitted by a later date than specified in the Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I propose a change in the order of consideration: point 20, i.e. Second reading of the draft law on amending the law. Family and caring code and consider this point as the first point; the 19th point, i.e. second reading of the draft law amending the Social Labour Inspection Act and consider it as point four, after a point concerning the Law amending the Labour Code. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Mr. and Mrs. Senators, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point: the second reading of the draft resolution commemorating Prof. Karol Modzelewski and consider this item as item of the last agenda. If I don't hear any objection, I think the High House has accepted the proposal... We're supposed to be looking at this point tomorrow as the first... [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] So I suggest we consider this point the first one tomorrow at 9:00. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the 70th eighth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term. Today, from 12.00 to 12.45 p.m., a break in the session will be announced, during which the exhibition will be opened.About mathematics and mathematics in the 100th anniversary of the Polish Mathematical Society. We will resume tomorrow at 9 a.m. We will start them, as I have already mentioned, but I will remind you, from the examination of the point concerning the draft resolution commemorating Prof. Karol Modzelewski. In the absence of proposals of a legislative nature to this point, we will proceed to the vote immediately after considering it. If there are amendments, there will be a break, and then we will vote. I would like to inform you that the remaining votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. [[The voice from the room: But this...]] It's tomorrow... Is this, ma'am, Friday? [[Voice from the room: No, Thursday.]] There's an exhibition about math and from 12.00 to 14.00... And the exhibition is so far away, and so close: Latvia and Poland is when? [[Voice from the room: Thursday.]] What about this? When will it be? Today or tomorrow? [[Voice from the room: Today.]] Today, okay. Good. Tonight's gonna be this... I read it and I didn't understand it. I'm sorry, I know. [[Tomorrow's math...]] Good. Everything's okay. I'll say it again. Today there will be an open exhibition on mathematics and mathematics, and tomorrow from 12 a.m. to 13.30 p.m. there will be a break in the session, during which the opening of the exhibition will take place, so far and so close: Latvia and Poland. More than 100 years of common history. Good. The word "tomorrow" was missing, and I would understand it from the beginning. I inform the senators that, for the examination of the twelfth point: the law amending the Road Transport Act and certain other laws, the thirteenth point: the law amending the Law, the Postal Law, and the fourteenth point: the law amending the Law, the Law amending the Law on proceedings before administrative courts and certain other laws, we will proceed on the second day of the sitting. In addition, I inform you senators that the agenda may be supplemented by points concerning the appeal of the chairman of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the election of the chairman of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. These points will most likely be considered tomorrow after 9 a.m., after the vote on the resolution commemorating Prof. Modzelewski. We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on the amendment of the law of the family and caring code. I would remind you that this is a draft law implementing the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. It is included in print No. 1059 and the committee's report In print No 1059 S. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Alexander Swed, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u2	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, a report on the amendment of the Law, the Family and Care Code. This amendment is the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. The Constitutional Tribunal stated in its judgment of 16 May 2018 that the signature of Act SK18/17 was incompatible with Article. 70 §1 of the Act of 25 February 1964. Family and caring code with the Constitution. The Court held that this provision, in so far as it sets a time limit for an action to be brought against the fatherhood of the mother's husband, irrespective of the date on which an adult child becomes aware of the fact that it does not originate from his mother's husband, is incompatible with the Constitution. The problem is that this term is completely disconnected from the moment the person concerned learned that it was not from his mother's husband. The legal solution provided for in the contested Article. 71 §1 which closes the investigation of the denial of fatherhood after the expiry of the 3-year deadline constitutes a restriction on the constitutional right to know its own roots. The proposed amendment proposes that... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me, Mr. Senator. I'm asking you to keep your conversations quiet. That's what's bothering the senator. Anyone who wants to talk, please leave the room.]] The amendment proposes that a child should be able to bring an action after age to deny his mother's father's father, but no later than three years after his or her age. However, if the child learns that it does not come from his mother's husband after he is of age, the time limit will begin to run from the day the child learns about the circumstances. The three-year period for a child to bring an action for denial of motherhood or the determination of the ineffectiveness of the recognition of fatherhood shall be determined in the same way as in the case of denial of fatherhood. It is therefore proposed that the following amendments should be made to the Law of 25 February 1964: "Family and caring codes." In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 6114 §1 is replaced by the following: "The child may bring an action for denial of motherhood within three years of the attainment of adulthood. If the child has heard of the circumstances referred to in Article. 6112 §1, when the child is of age, that period begins to run from the date on which the child becomes aware of the circumstances. Art. 70 §1 is replaced by the following: "A child may, after reaching adulthood, bring an action for denial of the fatherhood of his mother's husband, but no later than three years after the attainment of adult age. If the child has heard of the circumstances referred to in Article. 67, when the child is of age, that period starts to run from the day the child learns about the circumstances. Art. 81 §2 is replaced by the following: "With such a request, the child may appear after he or she is of age, but no later than three years after his or her attainment. If the child becomes aware of the circumstances referred to in paragraph 1, the period shall begin to run from the date on which the child becomes aware of the circumstances when he or she is of age. The Act shall enter into force 14 days after the date of publication. The joint committees worked on the proposed amendment on 13 February and 10 April 2019. We have a number of opinions for the proposed amendment. What I'm trying to say is that, among other things, The Supreme Court, the Social Insurance Institution, the spokesperson for the rights of the child, the National Courts of Justice, the Association of Attorneys, the National Court of Justice and the General Bar Council have not submitted any comments. The Prosecutor-General and the Ombudsman submitted comments on the article. 60, taking into account the reference to Article. 67. These comments were included in the amendment. The Ministry of Justice also expressed its opinion, which indicated that a similar project had been submitted to the Council of Ministers and that work on a similar project is also taking place in the Sejm, to a much wider extent. I think the Minister will also tell you about this project. Thus, on behalf of the joint committees, the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, I request that the Senate adopt a uniform bill annexed to the bill and a draft resolution on the introduction to the Sejm of this draft law, i.e. the amendment of the law - Family and caring code. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would like to remind you that the Legislative Committee has also authorised Senator Alexander Swede to represent it. Are any of your senators... There are no volunteers. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] Welcome to the meeting of the Minister, Undersecretary of State, Mr. Łukasz Piebiak. Hello, Minister. Would the Minister like to speak? Yes? You're welcome to go to the pep talker.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u4	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As the rapporteur Alexander Swed mentioned, it is clear that this ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal must be carried out. There is, you can say, a good situation that everyone wants to do this duty, and the Senate as the chamber responsible for it, and the Ministry of Justice, in which the domain remains the family law. Indeed, without denying the need to execute the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, the position of the Ministry of Justice with regard to this project is negative, but only for the reason that we have a project which is already at the stage of the final public consultation. By 10 May, the attention of different actors is to be paid. He's wider in scope. It also seems to be without some of the legislative shortcomings that we have pointed out in our opinion. The question therefore arises as to whether it is really advisable for Parliament to proceed with two projects which concern the same thing, and ours, as I have mentioned, is a little broader, and it also seems a little more legislatively perfect, even if it does not use the reference that this reference is in the draft submitted by the rapporteur. It seems, in view of the calendar of parliamentary work, that this project, the Ministry of Justice project, should be adopted by the Council of Ministers and, as all will go well, go to the Sejm in June. Therefore, if the High Chamber considers that this project is to be continued, they will probably meet in the Sejm. Of course, it's up to the High House. I just wanted to present the state of play on the Ministry of Justice project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u5	Thank you very much, Minister. Please stay a while longer. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Aleksander Pociej. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u6	Minister, I would like to ask you to present to the House... We had a discussion during the committee meeting about how this regulation could affect the possible claims of those who raised the child, those fathers who had raised the child for many years, laying down on them, believing that they were parents in a physical sense. How can such denial of fatherhood, so late, affect their maintenance claims against those children who deny fatherhood?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u7	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u8	Indeed, as the senator pointed out, the discussion on this subject took place at a committee meeting. In our assessment of the grounds for a possible claim for reimbursement, because we're talking about such claims... So in the case of a person who was considered to be a parent and it turned out that the parent is not, in fact, grounds for reimbursement, for claims for damages, for reimbursement of funds paid, it would not be, but the final decision in this regard would be for the courts if such actions were formulated. In our view, they would not find a legitimate basis. But regardless of the formula in which the two chambers of parliament will ultimately decide to execute this ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, such a threat, in our view rather theoretical, will arise, whether it is a government project, whether it is a Senate project or any other project which is to carry out the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u9	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u10	Thank you. Minister, I'm sitting right in front of you. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: Sorry.]] I'm here. I have this question: in the case of siblings, which are twins, if one were to take the initiative that the law allows, can it happen that the legal status will be different from that of biologically-healthy people?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u11	Minister, wait a minute. Senator Comfort. Here you go, second question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u12	Thank you. Minister, you answered one of my questions, but I also formulated the other. What will be the situation of this parent, who, as it turns out, is not a parent and, as a result, denied his fatherhood, what will be his maintenance situation? Because we know that there are laws that allow parents who, out of infirmity, fall into poverty in old age to claim alimony from their children. Will it affect the possibility of these people investigating such alimony to old age?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u13	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? No, not yet. You're welcome, Mr. Minister. 2 questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u14	As far as I know. I answer Senator Włosowicz's question. Everything depends on the complaint of the entitled person. If one of the two twins wishes to conduct a proper course of action, and in this proceeding a decision will be taken, which will result in a change in parenting relationship... Yes, theoretically you can imagine such a situation, although biologically we are dealing with twins. If only one of them takes the right trial action and ends it successfully, then these people will have different parents. At least that's how hot I'd answer. Of course I'm not a specialist, I'm not a family judge, but I think that, as far as I know the legal system and the rules governing the civil process, such a danger may exist. As for maintenance relations, what was asked by Senator Pociej, then after such conduct and change of condition as regards the parent, the child's relationship A parent... We're talking about those alimony payments that can be demanded from a parent in the event of a shortage. Of course, you will be able to demand these child support from the parent, who is the person who is indicated in the court order, so if, as a result of denying the fatherhood, carrying out this procedure, the person we are talking about changes, then this person will be the person who is liable for maintenance. The person determined by a judicial decision, not the one originally considered to be a parent, and in fact the parent is not. Like the senator said, she's such a non-parent. Or did I misunderstand the question?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u15	More? [[Yes.]] You're welcome. Senator Aleksander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u16	The way you led the minister... I mean, that answer you formulated is pretty clear to me. However, I am referring to the opposite situation. There's a man who's been recognized for many years, for 20 and 30 years, as a father, laid on a child and helped this child like a biological parent. And there is a denial of fatherhood, because from now on it will be possible to do so at age, e.g. 30 years. Right? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: Yes.]] And now the same parent who, as it turns out, is not a parent Because of the denial of the fatherhood, the family ties are broken down, and poverty falls on them. Normally, he could request maintenance from his son or daughter. And from now on, what will his situation be like? Is this denial of fatherhood going to be automatically, so to speak, breaking that possibility? And don't you think that, in such a situation, you should maintain, despite the denial of paternity, the possibility of seeking such alimony? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: I understand.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u17	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u18	Indeed, as the senator pointed out, at a time when the person of this parent is changing, even after decades, successful management of maintenance claims towards that person, who is already from the formal point of view of being a stranger to a potential claimant in such maintenance process, cannot succeed, despite the fact that earlier through some, for example. For twenty or twenty years, she's put money on the support of this person when she was a minor. Then things change, i.e. This person is mature and has financial resources, but the person who was a parent before, and now formally is not a parent, is underprivileged. This is, as I understand it, a request to consider in the course of our work at the Ministry of Justice. We can think about it. I can answer that. Because this is not yet a project that would have been adopted by the Council of Ministers at this stage, ours, the Ministry of Justice, and I promise to do so. Would that not in any way correspond to the considerations of human justice? Well, for today's sake, the effect of denying the fatherhood is exactly what the senator said, and I confirmed it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u19	Thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: Thank you.]] Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion... [[One more question was...]] [[Senator Aleksander Pociej: No question...)]] [[Is that for discussion?]] [[It's for discussion.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would remind you that legislative proposals can only include changes aimed at implementing the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal and their necessary consequences. Please take the floor of Senator Alexander Swede and then Senator Alexander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, I would like to address two points. The first point concerns a committee meeting. The joint committees, the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy have dealt with the amendment on 13 February and 10 April of this year. And here, indeed, the opinion of the Ministry of Justice at the beginning was negative, and the Minister also said that work on the project is underway. But the committees, with the amendment being prepared, decided that they would also bring their draft, a project in general very positive, relating to the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. These two projects will probably just meet in the Seym. That's one thing. The second point is the question that Senator Pociej formulated here in plenary and which he also formulated at the committee meeting. I also asked the Minister, the Ministry's side, about maintenance issues. And in that other opinion... At the second meeting of the committee of 10 April, there was an opinion of the Ministry, which explained these issues perfectly. Allow me to complete what the Minister has already said here and quote a passage from this opinion. Because the proposed changes do not affect the issue of property relations between a child and a person whose fatherhood or motherhood was denied. Currently, in accordance with Article. 144 §2 of the family and care code, a mother's husband of a child who is not his father may require maintenance benefits from the child if he has contributed to the child's upbringing and maintenance and his request corresponds to the principles of social life. The same entitlement shall be granted to the wife of the father of a child who is not the mother of the child. In turn, in the event of a denial of paternity, a man who is not married to a mother of a child may claim the reimbursement of maintenance payments under the rules laid down in Article. 405, in conjunction with Article. 410 §1 and 2 of the Civil Code, because the legislator also considers as an undue benefit one whose basis has fallen off, unless the fulfilment of the service satisfies the principles of social co-existence. In its resolution of 11 October 1982, the Supreme Court stated that the debtor could not claim the reimbursement of the benefits which had been granted before the application for the denial of the fatherhood, but could claim that his maintenance obligation had ceased as regards maintenance benefits which had not been fulfilled until now. As it seems, from the circumstances of a particular case, it is impossible to rule out a decision based on the established provisions of the Civil Code. So that the Civil Code has so far resolved this issue and the proposed amendment so de facto did not directly address these maintenance issues. I myself will present this amendment as a very beneficial one. I think we need to execute this judgment of the Constitutional Court. There cannot be a situation where adults find out that their father is not a biological father, they have no possibility of denying their fatherhood. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u21	Thank you very much, Senator. And Senator Alexander Comfort. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I agree with what Senator Swed just said, that we should absolutely proceed with this project. I'm also grateful... Otherwise, I'm going to ask the High House not to give in to this suggestion from the Ministry that there's a project somewhere... On many occasions, we were retreating from certain actions because something was going to go to the Sejm. Very often it has happened. Not only in this term of office That it didn't go to the Sejm after all. It turns out that having this empire, having this opportunity, the Senate retreats and gives the fields where they should be. I'm afraid that's the way it's been lately. I hope, however, that we will return to this project. "We have given in to the Ministry's suggestions and we have withdrawn from this, I think, very good initiative, supported by political divisions concerning the situation of fathers. I very much regret that we have withdrawn from this because it was a very good solution, very desirable by a very large social group. In answer to Senator Swede, I'm going to say that I know that the mother's husband can claim this maintenance allowance, only that we're talking about a different situation here. After all, these people can be divorced after many years... This example, which the Ministry gave, and which you quoted, most often refers to a slightly different matter in my view. This is a situation where a mother already has a child, gets married again or first time for someone, and they're raising this child together, together. That's how I read it. If I'm wrong, I'm gonna take it back, but I'm gonna insist that this case should be solved so that the person Not just the husband of the mother A child who is not a husband of a mother and who, for some time or throughout the childhood of that child, had put on his upbringing, on his being, could also claim such maintenance benefits to old age if he were to become the poverty to which he would have been entitled if there had not been this denial of fatherhood. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u23	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Zbigniew Silence.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u24	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal not only obliges us to execute it, but is absolutely right. After all, for many years it has been pointed out that the previous regulations are not, in fact, fair, because they make the claim for denial of fatherhood conditional on completely random circumstances, i.e. on the course of time, because there is a limit of 3 years since the attainment of age, which has nothing to do with the fact that such a child intends to bring an action, the fact that the formally existing father is not his father. Therefore, there is a clear and necessary legislative intervention. And we're making it. Of course, I'm glad it's kind of like saying, in competition. But in such a positive sense of the word With the actions of the Ministry of Justice. The aim is to achieve the goal, i.e. to put in place a reasonable and fair solution. Therefore, the time limit for the claim is subject to the essential circumstances of the fact that the formal father is not the real father of the child. So it would be counted, as the lawyers call it, and temporal science, that is, from the moment of the news. And I'm signing this project. I would like to say that this is also part of those cases which have been examined by the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, which, in particular in cases against Turkey, such as the Tavli case against Turkey, has stated that legal solutions cannot be adopted in a country that would put first the interests of purely formal law order and would place the issue of the real truth, namely the real origin of the child, in the second place. Similarly, similar decisions were made in Polish cases. And in order to avoid such cases before the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg and the risk of losing them... I believe that this bill is as timely as possible. And I therefore support him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u25	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only involve voting. It shall be held together with other votes. We proceed with item three of the agenda... the third? [[Voice from the Chamber: Now there should be a second point: the Law on amending the Law on State Aid in Raising Children and some other laws.]] Yeah, okay. I've got it. We proceed with the second agenda: the Law amending the Law on State aid in the raising of children and certain other laws. The text of the act is contained in print 1163, and the report of the committee In print No 1163 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Andrzej Kaminski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u26	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Senate! I have the honour to present a report on the work of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, which was held yesterday. It concerned a law amending the Law on State aid in the upbringing of children and certain other laws. The purpose and subject of the bill was presented by the Deputy Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Mr Stanisław Swed. This amendment to the Law on State Aid in Child Education includes the provision of education to all children up to the age of eighteen, including those who are staying in a social assistance home. That law repeals the income criterion for entitlement to this benefit. The catalogue of authorised persons is extended by amending the Act of 9 June 2011 on support for family and foster care, which concerns children placed in care institutions. They are granted an allowance in the amount of their education allowance for the age of eighteen. In addition, the Act amends or adds provisions concerning the conduct of educational services. Thus, it introduces a three-month period for the application for the right to benefit calculated from the date of birth of the child, which is intended to grant a parental benefit with compensation from the date of birth of the child; it regulates the granting of a parental benefit to the second parent in the event of the death of the parent to whom the benefit was granted for a given period or who died prior to the examination of the application, thereby allowing continuity of the collection of the benefit; it amends the period for which the right to provide the education allowance will be fixed from 1 June to 31 May of the following year; it introduces procedural rules governing the procedure for the procedure of changing the place of residence of the applicant or receiving such benefit; it removes the obligation to decide on the granting of the benefit by an administrative decision to issue information on the award of the benefit. The Act will enter into force on 1 July 2019. Today, the number of children using the program is 3 million 600 thousand, and covering all children with 500+... It's gonna be okay. Six million 800,000 children. Such a group of children will be included in the programme after the amendment. This will mean an increase in expenditure from the state budget by about PLN 9 billion 600 000 this year and about PLN 19 billion 500 000 in 2020. In total, expenditure on the implementation of the programme in the full year will be at the level of about 41 billion PLN. High Izbo, during the discussion conducted during the committee's work, Senator Jan Rulewski had tabled amendments to the bill concerning, among others, an increase in the amount of the education allowance up to PLN 1 000 per month for a child who is under the age of 16 if he/she has a disability certificate and for a child who is under the age of 18 if he/she has a certificate of significant disability. Another amendment was a proposal for a change which would consist in not granting an educational benefit if the annual income of each person in the calendar year preceding the period for which the right to provide an education is fixed would exceed PLN 85 000 528. The next amendment proposal included the addition of an article. 15a, so that the Act expires on 1 July 2021. Mr Senator Antoni Szymański expressed his doubts in the further part of the discussion. as regards the extension of the catalogue entitled to provide education to children in foster care and to families with significant annual income. In response, Minister Swed stated that the state budget situation and significantly greater budget revenues allow for the inclusion of all children up to the age of 18 in the 500+ family programme, and the proposed solution complements a comprehensive state policy for Polish families. In the course of the discussion, a request was also made for the adoption of a law without amendments. As far as he goes, he was voted first. There were four votes in favour, one vote against. Your Senate, the committee requests that the bill be passed without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u27	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The project was brought in by the government. Does the Minister want to speak, or is everything... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Yes.]] You're welcome. You have very little time, Minister, because we're about to announce a recess. How long will the performance take? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: How long until the break?]] One minute. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: I think it will take a little longer.]] Good. Five minutes? Ten minutes? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: 5.]] Five, okay. We'll give you five minutes. I'll announce a recess at 12:05.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Today we are considering a very important law on amending the Law on State aid in the upbringing of children and certain other laws. It's about the 500+ family programme. Today we can say that this is another good step towards supporting Polish families. For the Government of Law and Justice, the Government of the United Right, the pro-family policy of the state was always the most important issue that we spoke about and implemented when we started our term of office. Today, this change, which we are introducing, i.e. the inclusion of the programme, the family of 500+.All children up to the age of eighteen, meet the expectations of the society, the expectations of Polish families. But it is still worth recalling at this point, because in this public discussion we often forget what the main objectives of this programme were. The objectives of the 500+ family programme are: firstly, demography, i.e. improving fertility rates; secondly, the fight against poverty, especially among children; thirdly, investment in the family. And I think that today we can say with all responsibility that these points are being implemented, and that they are being implemented in a very satisfactory manner. A few lines, so expanding these three points... The issue of demography and fertility. Often there are doubts about the fertility rate in the messages, so it is worth mentioning here. In 2015, the fertility rate was 1.25, in 2017 1.45. We hope that this indicator will be even higher in 2018. So in the short term, the fertility rate went up. We were practically at the gray end of the world when it comes to the fertility rate, among others. This program made this fertility rate higher. Also important is the question of the number of birthdays. In 2017, more than 400,000 children were born for the first time since time immemorial. And what is also important in this discussion: in 2018 the number of birthdays fell, but it dropped for a simple reason? in 2018 more than 100,000 women in the so-called. of childbearing potential We weren't able to give birth. That's why the number of children has dropped. But, what is also important, in the plans that were presented earlier, even for the previous coalition, the number of children in 2018 was estimated to be 340 thousand, i.e. almost 40,000 children less. We estimated 360 thousand in our program, and in 2018 388 thousand children were born. So as far as the issue of fertility is concerned, this is a decisive improvement. But we are all aware that the fertility rate, which is such an indicator of generation substitution, is at a very high level, because it's 2.2, which is 220 giving birth to women... So then it would be generation replacement, and we have an indicator of 1.45. The second issue of poverty. There's very good information here, too. We have practically eradicated child poverty The indicators were 12%. , now they're at 0.7% Especially when it comes to poverty in the countryside. This is clear when it comes to improving the situation of families. And then there's the third thing about investing in the family. We also see what we can see today, how the material situation of families has improved and how the money is invested. They are not wasted, they are invested directly, among others. in improving the educational situation, in trips, in needs that many families could never meet. It was the program that made it possible for her to fulfill it. These changes that we have proposed, i.e. the inclusion of all children up to the age of eighteen, including those who are in different institutions, in foster families, Senator Andrzej Kaminski has already talked about this. They will cover over 6 million 800 000 children, i.e. the entire programme will cover this number of children. It is also important that, within the framework of this change, It's worth emphasising, I think. Of course, there will no longer be an income criterion, which is what was now in this program, that the first child was a income criterion. At the moment, there will be no income criterion, i.e. any child up to the age of eighteen will be covered by this programme. By the way, we're also making changes. I think that a very important change is the procedure for granting the benefit itself. We have applied here the mechanism that is used in the "Good start" program, i.e. in the so-called "good start." A school expeditioner, so we're trading the administrative decision for information. This means that at the municipality office which is implementing the programme, the family of 500+, the time to wait for the decision will now be much shorter, because it will no longer be necessary to make an administrative decision, it will only be information. Information will be sent to the family concerned by electronic means or in paper version If anybody wants to get one of these, they'll go to the office and get that information. This procedure will be very narrowed down and this will also facilitate the process. Another important change we're making is a change in our allowance period. Now the benefit period ends in September. We're changing the rule. The programme will enter into force on 1 July, i.e. on 1 July it will be possible to submit applications by electronic means and on 1 August by paper. However, this first, as a new period, will last until the end of May 2021. The new period will be 23 months. So we will have the opportunity to change the procession system that occurs today during the summer periods, because today this period is July, August, September, the allowance period from 1 October. We're gonna change that. It was also a frequent demand of employees who deal with the payment of benefits so that they did not accumulate all benefits in one period. So that in 2021 the allowance period will start on 1 June and will last for a year until the end of May 2022. Applications can be submitted from February 2021, i.e. this new period will be 23 months. Of course, those persons who today have the right to benefit are as valid as possible until the end of September. And the issues that are very important, because they have an impact on the ability to make very bold decisions about a programme that covers all children, are financial issues. The extra funds that will be allocated to the program this year, that's almost... [[Mr. Minister, well, unfortunately, we have to...]] That's the last sentence. [[Yes?]] Last sentence. [['Cause I'm gonna take a break... here you go.]] It will amount to PLN 9 billion 600 million. In 2020 this will be an additional 20 billion PLN. The total cost in 2020 is PLN 41 billion. In this year's budget, appropriations are provided for this, as well as in the next year's budget. The budget plan will be so prepared by our government that it will certainly be provided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u29	Thank you very much, Minister. Before I announce a break, I'll just say, Minister, that after the break, we'll get back to the questions. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Okay, good.]] I already know that there are questions for the Minister, so that I invite the Minister to answer the questions at 12.45 p.m., because by this hour I am declaring a recess. Thank you very much. Dismissed until 12.45 p.m. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 08 to 12 minutes 48]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u30	High Izbo, resume. I propose to supplement the agenda with a point: the Law amending the Labour Code and some other laws and consider this item as the fourth item of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. [[I don't think we're at that point yet.]] [[We were in second and there were questions...]] [[It's about enlargement...]] Yes. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Thank you very much. We are returning to the second agenda: the law amending the Law on State aid in raising children and certain other laws. I would like to remind you that a report of the committee was presented before the session was interrupted and Minister Stanisław Szwed presented the position of the government. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Alexander Swed, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz also... Question, right? Mr. Marshal, 'cause I'm already at 1:00... Let's keep it that way. [[Okay, okay.]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Hello, Mrs. Marshal.]] Good morning, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u31	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The 500+ program is a very good program, and I don't think anybody's discussing it. In the report presented, the Minister spoke about the three main objectives of the 500+ programme, namely improving the demographic situation, eliminating poverty, supporting the raising of children, i.e. de facto supporting the family. But I'd like to ask. 'Cause I'm currently having meetings with the people of my region and there are different questions at these meetings. How does the Minister feel: isn't this current amendment of the 500+ programme a de facto solution to the working people? We had, and I had reported situations in my office that mothers raising children alone... I.e. if such a mother worked, she was usually not eligible for the benefit and in the case of the first child she did not receive this benefit 500+. Also families who had a high income did not receive benefits for the first child. So isn't this amendment de facto also coming out to those who work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u32	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u33	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Answering the senator's question directly... By extending the programme, of course, we are also responding to the expectations of those families who spoke in the debate on the income criterion for the first child still in force today. Let me remind you that today, according to the state in force until the end of September, 52% Children are covered by the 500+ family programme, including, of course, the children of single parents who raise them, even though the criterion is accepted at the level of 800 PLN, and in the case of a disabled child 1 thousand 200 PLN. Yes, it is. Of course, there will now be no income criterion, which means that this programme will cover all children and this issue will be clearly addressed. As I said before, in my first speech, this programme is highly appreciated in society. Studies conducted by CBOS or other research centres show that the extension of this program is also very well received by Polish families. On the one hand, it will continue to improve strongly the material situation of families, including those families that had not previously been included in the programme, but there is also a second factor that we are talking about, i.e. improving the fertility rate. In this respect, we hope that the programme will also work positively in the coming years.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u34	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Antoni Szymanski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u35	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask you about cooperation with local authorities in terms of payment of the benefit. What does this cooperation look like right now? Sometimes opinions are formulated that the amount allocated by local authorities to the operation of this programme is too small. Are such opinions justified? How does the online application system work? I would like to point out and remind you that this is actually the first major programme that has been organised in such a way that applications can be submitted online and indeed they are so submitted massly. Does this system check out whether it is already so shaped that there are no problems to use it? And whether other programmes can also be organised according to this formula ..that is to make applications online. In connection with this experience, which, in my opinion, is a good experience? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u36	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u37	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Of course, the possibility to submit a proposal electronically was also our priority when it comes to operating the programme. Therefore, the change that we have introduced, i.e. the change in the administrative decision that was issued by the authorities implementing this programme, for information. We modeled here on a good start, which was so-called. A school expedition. In that case, more than 50% was placed on-line In conclusion, there were even voivodships where this level reached 60%. So the question of this road is very positive. We hope that this will also be the case. As far as the measures are concerned, we believe that these funds that we spend on the operation of the scheme, in this case, now, are 1.5% , and in absolute amounts it is more than PLN 330 million in 2019 and is sufficient to implement it. We do not have any problems with the mere payment of benefits or receipt of applications. Next year, this amount for the operation of the scheme will be reduced to 0.85% despite the fact that the level of funding will be reduced to 0.85%. It will be more than PLN 400 million, but the time will definitely be reduced, work will be easier, the proposal will be simplified, because the decision will no longer be taken, only information will be available. It will not be necessary to notify those who apply, because this will take place automatically, those who submit the application electronically will receive it by electronic means, and if anyone wants to have any further information, they will receive such information at the office. So that, according to our assessment, the resources that we spend on this programme are good resources - 1.5% now, 1.2% from July to the end of the year and 0.85% in the years to come. In absolute amounts, these funds are higher, but, as I say, much less work, much less paperwork, so to speak, to be worked, will significantly improve the possibility of implementation. All the more so, as we can see in local governments, this period is increasing when it comes to the collection period... The new allowance period will be extended as it will be from 1 July to the end of May 2021, i.e. 23 months for new applications. But those who have a fixed right by the end of September of this year can apply from 1 July. So that this financing issue is adequately addressed. I think it is also worth mentioning here that there is virtually no increase in the conversion of the witness to a material witness, for which the local government is authorized. Such situations, when the family does not receive a benefit, but receives a benefit in material form, are about 7 and that is, such people are very, very little on the scale of the entire program, so this program is very well implemented in this respect. Families have full possibilities to spend at their discretion the funds of the 500+ programme.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u38	Thank you very much. Now, Mr. Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u39	Thank you. Minister, aside from the optimistic tone you have put forward here. In fact, I'm the only one. There are no charges. or criticism of the government and the idea that there is a considerable share of state waste, budget, in addition to the electoral campaign. Because how do you understand that this program, especially in this solution, increases the resources available to highly-remunerated, relatively high-income families, because it gives from a vending machine to every child? Secondly, however, the programme will continue to deprave in terms of professional activity, as the number of these benefits precedes labour income, notabene very small income from work. Thirdly, even if it is accepted that this money will pay out, that it is generous and that it is possible, especially the Minister, your Ministry, Mrs Rafalska, forget about the disabled, whose needs are met below certain limits necessary and possible by the Polish State. And finally, this program is in a unique contrast to other child benefit schemes, I'm talking about family benefits and family benefits laws, I'm talking about tax reliefs. How many more systems are there gonna be?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u40	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u41	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! We talked about this quite extensively at the committee meeting. I do not agree with the argument that, in this respect, we are not helping people with disabilities, because under this programme, the first part, i.e. the higher income criterion for children with disabilities, at the level of PLN 1 000 200, resulted in the majority of children with disabilities being covered by the programme. Now this problem disappears because we don't have an income criterion. Also those benefits, which are, i.e. raising the care provision or care allowance, which are addressed to carers of disabled persons or children with disabilities, and raising the social pension to the minimum amount of PLN 1 thousand 100... These are all actions that improve this situation. To this, of course, we can talk here, going a little beyond the programme, about the Life Programme, which is implemented through our Ministry and the Ministry of Health, as well as about a special fund to support people with disabilities, a solidarity fund, which this year will be funded by nearly PLN 700 million, and next year it will be PLN 2 billion. These are actions that we take in the area of people with disabilities, including children. That's the first point. Second note. The programme we have adopted is a common programme, and that is why we include all children. The discussion about this upper limit is ongoing and is the question at which level it is possible to set, whether to introduce a profit criterion. It is also a matter of service, because if we introduce a profit criterion, we will need an entire army of people who will examine this criterion. Therefore, this simplified formula, which we are implementing, is probably the best solution.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u42	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u43	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! 2 specific questions on the content of the amendment. The first is, I would say, the definition of a child. It's about your own child, a foster child, etc. The definition of a spouse's child is out of the bill. What is the reason that this wording has changed? Perhaps it is unnecessary, but, as I say, in the old text it is, and it is not in the new text. The second point is, I would call it, with the general absorption of this law, and it is about the coordination of social security, about what we once transferred from the Marshal's office or his units to the voivodeship. Did this improve the issues involved, I would call it, with the examination of applications, over time, of these applications? There were very big time slips, the marshals couldn't handle it, and it went to the voivodeship. What is the situation at the moment when it comes to coordinating social security, making proposals, taking into account what is happening abroad?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u44	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u45	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! As far as definitions are concerned, I don't see that we're making any changes... We include all children who are entitled to receive parental education, as well as foster care, in social care homes, in educational centres. All children are covered by this program. As for the second question, concerning the coordination of the system, this is a significant improvement, but not sufficiently satisfactory yet so that we can say today that this problem has been resolved to the end. It is due to many reasons, among others. is related to the fact that the right to benefit on our side requires coordination with other countries, and this process is often delayed there. We have carried out these activities on our side on improving the functioning of this, the number of posts in voivodship offices for people who deal with this issue, etc. As I say, the situation has definitely improved, these deadlines have been shortened, but not yet enough so that we can say today that this problem has been completely resolved. The waiting periods were definitely reduced, but also the number of people... We remember that as from the Marshal's office to the voivodeship... There were voivodships in which there were tens of thousands of pending applications. This number has decreased, but not yet enough so that we can say today that all the issues have been resolved.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u46	Thank you very much. Senator Andrzej Spider.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u47	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have a question. You gave me the number of children covered by this paycheck, and that was probably 8 million... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: 6 million 800 thousand.]] Sorry, $6 million 800,000. I have a question about how many children are only children, how many comes from families with two children, how many families with three children, and how many families with four children and more. Do you have that data now? If you don't, I'd ask you, if it's payday on July 1st and it's known, to give such...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u48	That's the data we have, but I don't have it in front of me right now. If the senator wishes... [[In writing.]] [[By the way.]] ...we'll answer in writing, in detail. [[Thank you very much.]] I don't know if there's a reason...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u49	Good. Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. There you go. [[I'm fighting. I think I need to...]] [[Voice from the room: It was good.]] There's nothing to fight with, but you have to put your ID, your card in the reader, and it's gonna be okay. [[Voice from the room: Correct.]] [[Voice from the room: It worked.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u50	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I'm asking a little question here on behalf of these... here's a bench of fathers of many families: Mr. Senator Dobkowski Four children, Mr. Senator Spider Eight children, Mr. Senator Radziwił Eight children, I modestly six. We have a question. In all these family policies in Europe, there is usually such a scheme that there is an over-normative number of children, which is mainly linked to solving the demographic crisis. Isn't the government considering such a situation that in the future, I'm not saying that right now, but in the future, I'm going to introduce some kind of system to reward the over-normative number of children in the family? Well, it is no secret that this human capital, which is created in the family, is a sine qua non condition for further development of the country and economic and social, and is also a certain depreciation of this demographic collapse. So I'm asking if the government, like countries like this. France, Germany, which have solutions in this regard, does not think about any solution in the future, and if so, in what direction it would be going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u51	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u52	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I'm sure we need to have this discussion because this is, I think, an important voice that you senators, as I understand it, are presenting here. What we're introducing, which is the benefit of 500+, is the universal program. The next step should be a step towards strengthening families with more children. What level would that be, or would it be a three, or would it be a four? It's kind of a different question. But it is likely that a discussion must be made in this direction. Is it in the form of solutions that we have designed here, namely direct payment of the amount of 500 PLN, or in the form of other solutions? I think it's... The experience of other countries varies. It could be, for example. in the tax system. Even though we have a relief for children, families benefit from it, more than 4 million families benefit from the children's tax relief program, and more than 6 million children benefit from this relief. Anyway, I think this is the direction we should be discussing, too. As I say, this stage is a universal programme, and I think that another one should be on the issue of support for multi-child families, the more so that if we are talking about investing in a family, of course this investment in a larger number of children is... Let's just say that there is more need for support here.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u53	Thank you very much. Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I'd like to ask you a total of two things. As the Minister said, one of the main benefits of the 500+ programme is the decline in poverty. Do we know, in an estimate, how many people have fallen out of social assistance for over three years when the 500+ programme operates? And then there's the second question. This is a somewhat similar question to what Senator Czerwinski asked. Indeed, I am referring to the issue of coordination when one of the parents is working abroad. There were many families reporting to my senator's office, pointing to the problem of coordination. And it is very good that it was transferred from marshal offices to voivodeship offices. That really improved the operation. I'm from Lower Silesia. There we had several tens of thousands of applications which were addressed to the voivodship office, and now I am in constant contact with the director of Anyway, I'm sure we still have to work on improving this system. So that here I join Senator Czerwinski's voice, that we will definitely have to... I know that this is a long-term process and not entirely dependent on us, because it is also a matter of coordination in other countries, when answers come from other countries. Anyway, I'm sure we'll still have to work on that coordination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u55	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u56	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! When it comes to improving the material situation, the fight against poverty, I'm going to put it in numbers or percentages, because that's what I have. Between 2015 and 2017, extreme child poverty decreased by half, from 9% up to 4.7% , and among the families of many children decreased from 12.2% to 6.4%. So that's practically a 100% reduction in poverty. That's what it would look like. Among single parents By more than half, of 6,5% up to 2.5%. And what I have also said: the extreme poverty of single parents has decreased from 12%. up to 0.7%. Especially when it comes to the poverty of children in the countryside, this percentage is virtually negligible. So here we clearly see great progress in the fight against poverty, in the fight against poverty, in the fight against poverty. All this data confirms it. As far as coordination is concerned, I answer that there is improvement, but there is still quite a lot to solve. As we have already said, these are not just a direct result of our actions, but also from the activities of other offices, offices in other countries. Well, it's enough that the answer doesn't come to us and it's happening again. Here's the problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u57	Would any of you like to ask the Minister another question? [[Senator Czerwinski.]] There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u58	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, I'm stubborn, so I'm gonna dig. Unfortunately, this expression of a child's spouse fell out of the definition of a child, it certainly fell out of the definition of a child. In the old text it is, it is not in the new text. Maybe it doesn't matter if you consider the next part of the bill, but if it matters, then I'm paying attention to it, because maybe we're releasing some group of children who will not be able to do so by leaving... I mean, these people will not be able to receive benefits. And when it comes to coordination, I don't know exactly what the procedure is right now. But do you, for example? Couldn't it have been such a path that we believe the person who's trying to get the benefit, we give it kind of in advance, and then eventually, if she was lying, we pick it up? Well, because this process sometimes takes so long that it practically goes beyond the annual period. That was the case with marshals' offices, that's for sure. So the question is, isn't it possible to just... maybe not so much simplify it, because it won't be easier, but make life easier for those who are trying, especially mothers who stay here when fathers work abroad. In this district where I am a senator, this is a common problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u59	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u60	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Well, here the definition of a spouse is not needed. All the children are taken care of, so that there's no reason for us to eliminate any child from the program through these changes that the senator mentioned. So that it doesn't matter to the functioning of the bill. As far as the question of system coordination is concerned, here is a quite bold statement from the senator, saying that we should give it on the basis of a statement. Well, it must be subject to verification and verification that the person is not receiving a benefit in another country. It also works the other way, because we are also affected by questions from other countries, whether this benefit is granted to us. In this universal system, which will come into force on 1 July, this process will, I think, be shortened. These things we're running right now are fast, but it's not exactly what we've been talking about here. So, let me tell you, we're taking this remark from you about whether this process can be improved in some way, although probably in such a way. The senator here made a proposal to pay in advance, and then to account for it would, in my opinion, be a big problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u61	Minister, if you don't mind... The problem is for officials, and the smaller problem is for those who receive this benefit. Well, if we believe our parents are really putting this help into the baby's needs, and it works in practice... Please note that these cases of taking a benefit in monetary form, and the granting in kind is very little. Then why do we not believe that they are simply right and right to this benefit to those who remain in Poland? All the more so that sometimes it is also so that it is difficult to determine in the case of a spouse who is already outside the country... I'm sorry, let's just say the simplest thing. Therefore, Minister, think about whether you could give advance payments and see how it works. And then of course. I'd call it a certificate.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u62	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u63	Well, I don't want to go into such direct polemics here anymore. Like I said, we're taking this vote. But I'd be careful here. All the more so because, as we know, in the case of unauthorised collection of the benefit there are major problems if someone is to pay some higher amount for the benefits he received, and as it turns out, he was not entitled to do so. I'm not saying that my parents aren't telling the truth. But sometimes for various reasons it was so that the benefit did not belong and then there was a big problem with the reimbursement of the wrongly received benefit, the amount of which, for example, was incurred. to a few thousand zlotys. And then there was a big problem for a family like this. Therefore, the simple arrangements that we apply in this respect are better, i.e. to check whether the benefit is entitled to, to what extent, whether this is an additional payment of the difference between the service that was received in another country and our service or vice versa. But every voice in the discussion is also in order for us to reflect on these issues.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u64	Senator Alexander Swed. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u65	Thank you. I will also ask the question, of course, but a little in the form of polemics in relation to what Senator Czerwiński proposed. Because to me, my senator's office was also referred to conclusions. And it can be said that some people do not even know that they are taking certain benefits abroad. They have the idea that if they're getting some family benefit, which is an addition to their salary, so at this point they're already qualifying for the 500+ program, that it's not exactly that they're downloading it there, that it's somehow otherwise accounted for. So that, well, sometimes the beneficiaries just don't know... I do not know if the Minister met with such a situation, that the beneficiaries, for example, by downloading. abroad, they were convinced that this was not a benefit that prevented the use of the 500+ program. But I do know that situations like this happen, too. This would imply that, if an application had been made and a statement had been made, a benefit would have been granted here, someone would have taken such funds, e.g. for a year or for two years, for two or three children, then the amount to be refunded would be, for example. PLN 30.40 thousand. And that would involve a heavy burden on the family budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u66	There you go. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Well, I think I've already...]] Actually, there's no comment on that, is there? Anyone else want to ask the Minister a question? No. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Thank you, Mrs Marshal.]] I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to provide written answers to the questions asked by Senator Andrzej Pajak. I'm opening a discussion. And I'll ask Senator Jan Rulewski to speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u67	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, it is important to thank the Union of Solidarity and almost all opposition for forcing the government to introduce 500+ changes in its character as presented here by the rapporteur senator and the minister. This is a great success of the opposition, albeit with the slip related to the elections. However, next to the opposition and the government, there is a small part of the public opinion which, especially in this revised version, accuses such qualities as overestimation, depravity of distinguishing social benefits from work... So the benefits are before work, which used to be successful in Poland. There are also gaps in this law, and these are gaps, which are, so to speak, on the constitutional boundary, in terms of paying children with disabilities, of course with significant disabilities, and also a demanding guardian. The problem isn't invented here, on this stage, or even more invented by me. It was on the mezzanine that he had been moved twice over the last few years. And it will be moved, as announced by these organizations organizing demonstrations in front of the President's Chancellery. So it follows that this programme is not universal, as you say, because it consciously avoids solving other social problems. I don't think it's just a budget result. It's some kind of problem that people with disabilities, their carers and their children don't deserve... Contrary to what the constitution says and the usual principles of decency applied around the world, that you have to lean down with the care of people who have been affected by fate. I therefore consider that this is the continuation of the programme as you called it, Minister, that the deposit will be paid. I can assure you, sir, because I worked at the workplace, that the most popular person at the workplace was a cashier. She was the one who was paying off the money, even before the clock, turning a blind eye to office hours to pay off the money. This is not a program, and even more a policy, because, I repeat, the bill does not answer these allegations. As far as wastefulness is concerned, it is necessary to ask the Minister where you see this educational role of strengthening families economically in families, where on average there are 5 000 people per person. Does she really need... [[$5,000.]] [[Gold.]] The gold ones, I'm sorry. Does she really need social assistance, education? Yeah, except for college in London. Indeed, this is the only thing that can be done by other forms. Does she need one? Finally: will she improve her demography? Because the data I think you're deliberately avoiding indicates that it's in these families that there's the slightest natural growth, and yet, as I understand it, you want to recharge it. In fact, this law enriches even more rich people, because those who fulfilled the current conditions in terms of income levels received it on the basis of current solutions, and those who exceeded the threshold will now receive it. So the cash will pay off, enthusiasm in the great nation, support for politicians also big. It is only necessary to remember that the history of Poland proves that we have been running the economy with no care. And this is by no means an attempt to overthrow this system, and I am not radical or fundamental in this matter, and is motivated by concern. The concern stems from the fact that we here, High Izbo, make a commitment not for tomorrow or for a year, or even, as originally written, for 10 years, do not make an obligation, as you write in this Act, for 18 years, only we make this commitment for at least 25 years for all those whom you claim to have listened to the appeal of the government and quickly improved the demographic curve, although you later denied it, saying that it cannot be improved, because there are no women who could have given birth. And that's true, too. So you can assume that this program goes partially into the vacuum. The data you point to is at the limit of error, due to the wavering of natural growth in earlier years, so this programme certainly cannot be effective after 2 years. Well, since Elizabeth Rafalska is the most popular in our country and the call for a cashier will pay, of course something needs to be done to minimise the consequences of irresponsibleness. Therefore, I am proposing an amendment to grant a double benefit to disabled children who require care, i.e. PLN 1 000. This is, of course, an expression of the pursuit of the implementation of the Article contained in the Constitution. 68 and Article 68 69, the Convention on Human Rights. It is the answer to the real problems of these children. Another amendment is controversial, I admit. I am in favour of equality between children, so that all children have equal family benefits. This was the case in the Gdańsk agreements, although the situation was different then, i.e. The income chimneys or Gini's curve were much more flattened than it is today. I am therefore prepared to revise this, especially in relation to those family environments that exceed income at the level of the second tax threshold on a daily basis, i.e. 85 thousand 500 PLN, in total, in the case of both spouses. The idea is to temporarily suspend benefits for those family environments in which children are present and whose monthly income is at least 17 thousand PLN. I apologize to these families for treating their children as stepmothers, but I don't think they'll be against it when they find out that these resources are also meant for children, but those whose parents don't earn so much, and yet they have to devote their professional time to taking care of their children. I think that's the understanding in society. This is demonstrated by various kinds of foundations, although they do not fully safeguard these needs. So the amendment shows the way from where they have... not only that there should be generational solidarity, interhuman solidarity, but also that there should be protection of the good that is budgetary balance. Of course, it would be best, as the amendment states in the first option, if these funds were from the budget. The problem is, we don't really know how much money there is in this budget. I'm not gonna carry out budget vetting. The fact is, two or three months ago, that money wasn't there, it wasn't for the budget, it wasn't for the teachers, now it turns out, all of a sudden, that money is in excess. So, Minister and Dear Ladies and Gentlemen, In particular, some senators, famous for their exceptional sensitivity to the problems of people with disabilities, call for this gesture to be made towards a solidarity society. The amendment I propose is ad hoc, for 2 years, because I believe not entirely In line with what the Minister told me at the committee meeting, there will be programmes on solidarity and support for people with disabilities. So the "Availability" programme, operating in hundreds of billions... today, has not been issued in the course of its implementation. Please check, Minister, how many diapers have been given to these children, and maybe this will be the right answer to... [[Time.]] ...program... [[Time.]] I'm almost done. Of course, there are other programs, other claims. And at the end... the last sentence. After this election, they'll be next. You can type in your notebook to raise benefits to the age of 19, because children were forced to study at the age of 19, by the educational laws of the PiS, and here, in this law, there is no mention of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u68	Thank you, Senator. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u69	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Way of Youth, which you are listening to our deliberations! I think we're at a turning point because we started this term with the 500+ program, and we sort of end up extending this program to every child. This notabene has been reported since the start of this programme, and then government representatives were clear and clear that, where possible, the budget programme would be extended. I would like to convey my thanks to the Minister from this place. Also for the government, Prime Minister Beata Szydło and Prime Minister Morawiecki For the fact that thanks to the sealing of the VAT collection system and other measures, due to good economic policy, which brings economic growth at a relatively high level compared to other European Union countries, many other activities have managed to develop these measures and are now expanding this programme. It was at one time that notabene advocated opposition or part of opposition, which was first against this program, and then made amendments to make it for every child. Well, right now we have an extension of this program. I think this is a very good decision and I can say it as a senator from the northern Mazowsze subregion of Ciechanów. Because it is no secret that, especially in the environments of smaller cities, rural environments, this money is particularly expected and the measure of this money is different. And we have often dealt with the situation that many educational, caring, educational, promotional, family leavers could not be implemented precisely because of the lack of funding. This program is certainly conducive to improving the work of raising children and young people. However, in my words, I would like to focus on this element I was talking about by asking a question to the Minister. Well, in 2007, I wrote a book "Family Time," where I reviewed family policies in Europe, especially with a close look at France, because France is so customary to be a country that started promoting family policy at the earliest, not as a social policy, but as a family policy, which was supposed to have a certain social and economic impact. And France is a very advanced country, a country that has a lot of experience here. But there are other countries that are developing this policy. Well, in 2007. Poland was a country which, when it comes to the transfer of funds to family policy, was situated at the end of the table of the Member States of the European Union. Currently, thanks to the programmes that have been implemented in the last 3 years, we are in the third, fourth position in the European Union as regards the ratio of quotas allocated to family policy to gross domestic product. So this shows how huge the scale of growth is in this area. In most countries with developed family policies, this system is promoted to encourage parents to have more children. Various incentives apply. Recently, Hungary has been introduced e.g. interesting, in my opinion, family policy binding programme, housing policy, pronatistic policy. Well, that's where the state is giving, and I'm not going to go into the details of this program anymore. Special credit for families that arise. And depending on how many children these families have, the share to be paid in a given apartment or place of residence is reduced. What does that mean? This means, above all, that it works pro-developmentally on the economy. It is known that one unit Whether it's 1 forint or 1 zloty, which is used in the construction sector, brings the economy about 6 units, 6 forints or 6 zlotys. And it is well known that construction is driving the economic economy, i.e. not only does it meet social needs, but it also turns economic development on. Many countries have benefited from this Spain In the 1980s, it achieved its economic development, precisely through the development of construction, Germany in due time, in the 1950s, and many other countries that went this way. So this Hungarian model is, I think, worth considering, as well as other options, which in a special way... Please understand me well, it's not about creating privileges for some category of families, it's about an approach that is consistent with Professor Gary Becker's theory. As you know, the Nobel Prize winner of the Chicago School, notabene liberal economic school, who won the 1992 Nobel Prize and developed the theory of human capital. Because by developing the thesis of the various predecessors who created this direction of thinking, he stated in his work in a clear and clear way, he even proved that in fact 80% of the capital in the world is human capital, i.e. It is capital accumulated in a man, in his ingenuity, in his diligence, in his abilities, in his talents. So every investment in human capital is a de facto investment in economic development. And according to this theory, Professor Becker has made many countries. They started to give rise to this human capital in this way that there is a clear progression in the state's actions, especially in the case of families who have so many children that there is more than a simple substitution. And we know that this is a simple substitution, which is kind of a re-enactment of the demographic structure, that's 2.1 of the child. So it is customary in Poland that a family with three children is a large family. It used to be a family with four kids, earlier with six... These criteria are changing, and at the moment it is generally assumed that since the third child there is a multi-children's family Or a lot of it because there's more than a simple substitution. And that's why there's the money that's meant to be here. It is known that such a family has a greater burden of caring, upbringing, education of these children, and it is known that it has greater needs. And here in various wise ways you can not only support those families, those spouses who wish to have more children, but also encourage them to do so, and the state would guarantee them a friendly socio-economic space for such family development. I would like to encourage the government very warmly from this point of view to work on family policy, I believe, in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u70	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Konstanta Radziwiłł.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u71	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! I am glad that this bill is ahead of us and that we will be able to contribute to its adoption. I am also pleased that it will probably be adopted unanimously or almost unanimously. But with all the congratulations we've heard for the opposition, which is supposed to be the author of this solution, I wouldn't exaggerate. Those opposition representatives who are likely to vote in favour of this law at the same time raise a number of different kinds of objections And the fact that it's a distribution, and the fact that we enrich the rich... That's what you said. [[Yes.]] And the fact that we're dissuading those moms who take care of the kids at home instead of going to work, and the fact that it's probably not possible at all... Well, that's the chorus we hear all the time. [[I didn't say that.]] No, not you, but the others said it. That you can't. That it's just... Well, this is the chorus we've been hearing since the beginning of the 500+ program. After all, it supposedly was no longer possible when he was created. Then it was not heard that these warnings were withdrawn, that the budget was not able to withstand these expenses. Well, 'cause it turns out it's enough not to just steal, right? Or don't let them steal. So I'm glad we're gonna take this program together. But at the same time, I do. It's a little bit of a feeling that if the government of law and justice continues its task, we'll have a guarantee that it'll all go on, and if it doesn't, then... For me personally, if I were a beneficiary of this scheme, this list of different types of reservations would no longer be such a full guarantee. I'd be worried that somebody's gonna start messing with this show if the power changes. This is my reflection in connection with what I heard during the discussion, and also earlier, in questions and in general in the statements of representatives of the opposition, including in the Seym or in the media. In general, in the context of this law, there is again a discussion as to whether such a universal allocation is appropriate to families. Because it's said that some people may not need it so much. In my opinion, the sin of the first-borns who are discussing this issue, that it might be better to make the allocation of funds dependent on this or that, is misunderstanding of what my previous speaker mentioned: that there is a fundamental difference between family policy and social or social policy. There's a fundamental difference. And this program has a character... Of course, as a result, he is also social. But in principle it is primarily a programme of justice towards families, as well as an incentive to have more children. And we're watching both of these effects. Of course, we can discuss whether we would like them to be even stronger. I'm sure it is. But the fact is, when it comes to the justice effect, the Minister spoke about it. It can be said that we really have a great success. First of all, I am referring to the elimination of poverty in families, especially in those families that have more children. And at the same time, well, the indicators were moving. And here you can't agree that this indicator is going to be unknown because you don't know how many ladies are going to be willing to give birth. The rate of children per woman has increased very clearly. That has to be emphasized. It grew from 1.29 to 1.45. Well, there's a clear difference. Of course, it would be good if there were more potential moms, because then this indicator would multiply. But the fact is, this rate has increased. So, you could say, the tendency of individual families to have more children was very clear. And this is something extremely positive. I think, considering whether it is worth paying for the first child too, we need to face a certain truth that we are observing. The fact is that many families simply do not choose to have children at all. And the encouragement to have even one child is important to us too. Then I would avoid underappreciating this pronatistic element even when we give money for the first child. In Questions Also in the statements of my previous speaker, Senator Jackowski The issue has already been raised as to whether it would be worth considering developing this programme or the family programme at all to support those who choose to have more children. In my opinion, this is actually very important. I think there are two such areas. One is the larger families, and the other is the families with a child of special concern. And this certainly is not a challenge for some distant future, but one that needs to be considered as soon as possible. Shouldn't parents who have more children or parents who have a child who is vulnerable, disabled simply pay more? Of course, here there may be various kinds of solutions: it can be simple progression, it can be progressive tax relief, it can be some special supplement for a disabled child. Here it should be noted that the assessment of this disability is also worth leaning over. Right? But also... Senator Jackowski mentioned it, and I'd like to do it again, even though it's already here. In my opinion, the Hungarian housing programme is really a model that is worth leaning over. In short, this principle is that loans are paid out to children. You can say that in a nutshell. Maybe that doesn't sound good, but once we realize what it's like... Someone is starting a family, taking a loan, a normal commercial loan in the bank, and then the state guarantees payment of this loan in the increasing part if in the meantime children appear in this family. This is, in my opinion, an experience that is really worth taking advantage of. If it is possible in Hungary, it can also be done in Poland. And he, this program, has another, Minister, advantage. That's the fact that you don't have to spend that money right now. This is also very important. And there are other solutions for big families, like... now I'm looking at you. It's not the resort, but there's an idea. In various European countries, it is now emerging So that parents who already have a really large number of children do not force them to have a D-category driver's license for a bus when they have a big car. Unfortunately, if the family has more than 9 people, that is the responsibility of parents, which is completely irrational. And I think it's a simple thing to bring in. I'm asking the Minister to pass this on to the appropriate department because it's cost-effective. I think that the safety of these families will not suffer from this, and this is an idea that would come up against those who have a really big problem, often solved not quite so, that I would say, in accordance with the law. Ladies and gentlemen, and finally the last question. I think it's worth thinking about... I look above all at the Minister. I'd like us all to realize, when we talk about the 500+ program, that it's actually a 108,000+ program, because the baby gets so much money in his life. It's really something worth seeing. And if this transfer is based on the fact that the next children, the next parents of these children will get this kind of financial injection for their entire lives, then they should see real support in that. But it also seems that there is a chance that... especially if all political forces really unreservedly start to talk about the fact that this is something permanent and unchangeable, it would... In addition, of course, because it will never be a basic or only reason to have children, so that Poles have more children, providing us all a better future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u72	Thank you very much. Senator Andrzej Spider.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u73	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Since there were two previous speakers in front of me who have the highest number of children in the Senate, then I must join these two and also take the floor. In my experience, having eight children, I know how much it costs, how much it costs, how much health and time it takes to spend. I know that very well. And like some Or Members, or even, say, politicians in the rank of Minister They talk about family things or other things, so a man listens and thinks: what are they talking about? And what is the best way to gain experience, knowledge? When you pay your price, you sacrifice your health, your time, your money, then you're a little bit smarter, so to speak. Ladies and gentlemen, of all the objectives that this law is about to achieve, and of which the Minister spoke... I agree, but the primary goal, the basic problem that was first exposed and then increasingly reduced, reduced to poverty or, say, family funding, was demography. The first thing they said when the government was forming: demography, demography, because it's pain. We as Poland are on the twelfth or two hundred thirteenth place in the world, because 1,31 or 1,32 children are per person. Well, now it may have increased a little bit, but, ladies and gentlemen, it's not like that. This will change, but eventually within a few decades, if the 2+1 family model, which is today, will be replaced by the 2+3 model. And the 2+3 family model should be the purpose and purpose of the government, because only then will be the replacement of generations. Let me repeat what I said in the Senate: the basic issue is demography. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a ticking bomb. This situation can even lead us to the fact that society will not only grow old, but will even enter the phase of extinction. There are even data provided by the United Nations that say that in 2100 we will be ok. Eighteen and twenty million. It's already, let's say, based on some research, some sort of fact or other. Minister, I'm going to give you a few of these interesting things. In 1960, Turkey had 27 million 120 thousand people, Iran was 22 million, Iraq was 7 million 380 thousand and Poland was 29 million 480 thousand. So in 1960 Poland had 2 million 360 thousand more inhabitants than Turkey, 7 million 480 thousand more than Iran and 22 million 100 thousand more than Iraq. At the end of 2018, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No Turkey had 81 million people, Iran • 82, Iraq • 39 and Poland • 37 million 860 thousand. What a powerful imbalance these are! So in 2018, Iran had 43 million more than Poland, Turkey almost 44, even Iraq jumped us. These 3 countries had 56 million 500 000 in 1960 and 202 million in 2018. There has been a population increase of 258% in these countries and 28% in Poland. I'm asking you not to go back 300 years, even though we might have Sobieski and the others... But if such a number of people come here, what are we going to make this army of salvation out of? Retired, 65+? It's a little far away, but it could be real. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that pro-family policy should be based on 2 pillars. One is what we do, what we support, and the other is that we remodel our heads. Because so what if, ladies and gentlemen, the one who has one child and doesn't want to have any more... Why bother, what's all this, what's all this, what's all this? Even if we gave him $10,000 for the baby, he's the other one, I suppose, he won't. He'll be happy and laughing at us for giving him the money. Once, as I mentioned here, I spoke with one of the old men from Südwestpfalz, Germany. We met when I was an old-timer of Susie's. What is the problem with you, in Germany, that you have so few children and this problem you raise? You've got a lot of money, you've got everything. And he showed on his head Kopf. The problem's in my head. And that's what I remembered, as Cyprian Kamil Norwid wrote: For verily I will say unto thee: that the nations of fate, And the railroads of mankind, and the world, and the heavens, And the sun, and the stars of the choir, and the core of the mineral, And a ghost...! ...and everything takes life from Ideal. Here's the first basic value. It's perfect. If we have the right heads, it'll be okay, and it'll be okay financially. But if we have empty heads and full wallets, then I don't think prodemographic policy moves on so much. On the other hand, there's a problem today, and it could be... Ladies and gentlemen, there must be respect for life, respect for motherhood. It's a basic issue. In recent years, since 1956, we have killed over 30 million unborn children. That's what I'm saying. That's the number of lifeless. Wouldn't we be in a different place today, and wouldn't we be stronger and stronger, like Turkey... We need to answer that question. There are many other interesting solutions. It's supposed to go further. I personally am not in favour of the first... It's better to strengthen it in the case of the second, third child, so that the demographic problem can be solved. I've already told you that the essence is that there are 2+3 families because then everything will move forward. At 2+1, we can't change much. I also told you... Your marshal was here in the previous term when I was talking about how you could do that if your mother raised four, five children... A child could be admitted, say, three or four years old. Times 5, 6... you could sign her employment contract. After all, mother's work is a hundred or a thousand times more important than the work of entire hosts of ladies who work in offices. And recently, over the last few years, the administration has increased by almost 150,000. People are being paid a lot of money, and they sometimes transfer papers, reports from place to place. I've been an old man, I've been a groom, I know how many bullshit, no-one else's paperwork goes day in and day out. And what's in it for you? What's the effect? And the fundamental work for the nation, because on the mother's knees the nation grows and develops, is so underestimated. There are many, many topics, ideas that can be spent on something that can be realized. Money can be spent very meaningfully. The money can almost be thrown in, on a very please basis, it receives, but it can also be expanded many times. Even on the Gospel pages, they said that one had some talents and could remake them and the other couldn't. I'm afraid with this kind of handing out, it could be good for 10 years. But will it ever be missing? Will not the words that are written in the Old Testament be fulfilled: our fathers ate berries, and our grandchildren suffered teeth? May this never happen in the case of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u74	Thank you very much. Senator Zbigniew Silence. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u75	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to express my satisfaction that we are introducing another family-friendly solution to facilitate and make life more worthwhile for children and whole families. After a long time, when in previous times we called At that time, Law and Justice did not rule. In order to introduce pro-family solutions, for example, to increase the profitability threshold that decided this... [[Excuse me, Mr. Senator, something's going on with the sound system...]] [[Voice from the room: Cell phone.]] [[Mr. Senator, please, your cell phone...]] Pardon. [[Exactly. You're the one who messed up.]] Excuse me. We sought at least a change in the income threshold on which the amount of the benefit or the acquisition of the right to the family allowance depended. For years, you can say that for 10 years, it hasn't been changed. Finally, the time has come when we are introducing family-friendly solutions, starting with those related to specific benefits for children. At the moment, we are expanding these solutions by introducing the benefit of 500+ to the first child. It's not the only thing that helps the family. I remember, in our previous term of office, from 2007 to 2011, trying to introduce pro-family tax legislation. I remember then, even surprisingly, in a way consistent with the Civic Platform Club, I took the initiative to introduce a provision in the Income Tax Act that would allow family companies to run. This was to be based on the fact that the employment of the closest person, e.g. The spouse would allow the salary paid to be included in the cost of economic activity. At that time, of course, it was with the opposition of Minister Rostowski, who always said, "I quote here his statement." There's no money and there won't be. That's when the whole initiative fell. I am pleased to note that this principle has now been introduced during the next amendment of the Income Tax Act in the time of the PiS Government. So what? The world's collapsing? There's no money? It is similar to the other benefits that we introduce and will introduce. That is why I am pleased that what was a dream even during the rule of AWS, when it was Minister Kapera, I remind you of this, as the person responsible for pro-government policy, has produced a report on the state of the family and called for the introduction of these family-friendly solutions, i.e. taxes, which I mentioned, i.e. the increase in family allowances, the introduction of various other family benefits... We dreamed of this at the time, but unfortunately it was not introduced, because at that time the guru of economic policy, Professor Balcerowicz, thought that it was not possible that it was necessary to operate on the principle of some leseferism, that yes, it is possible to allow people to conduct business, but to survive those who manage and all the rest of the country does not have to do business. Therefore, relatively recently, even if we reached 4 years back, until before PiS won the election, there was a situation that there were about 2 million malnourished children in Poland. In the middle of Europe, in the country, you could say milk and honey flowing, in terms of food resources, were malnourished children. Well, it was a complete curiazum and a total scandal that cried out for revenge to heaven. After the introduction of this supplement, 500+, this situation practically disappeared, well, perhaps some very small percentage of such children, certainly less than 10% It still exists. Introduction of further benefits, among others this amount of 500 PLN per child is, I believe, the next step towards appreciating the family. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to emphasise an international aspect. It is not that only we in Poland invent these pro-family solutions. After all, we are thus fulfilling the beautiful commitments we have made within the Council of Europe. I will remind you of the European Social Charter, signed in Turin in 1961 and signed in 1997 by Poland, which in art. 16 obliges states to provide benefits related to maintaining the economic situation of the family, various types of benefits, including tax arrangements, pro-family arrangements. It's all written down, as I say, in international documents. We've actually been going away so far, we've been negative about the solutions that were in other countries. It should also be said that social benefits, especially for the family, have a beautiful card in history. They contribute to the fact that, firstly, the standard of living of society is being increased, secondly, that inequalities in the standard of living are being overcome. Because when there are no benefits, we are very often faced with huge disparities, that is, there is a narrow group of very rich people, a very small percentage of people who live as such, on an average level, and a huge crowd of people who are barely able to survive from month to month. We've set up a dam for it now. Moreover, the observation shows that Poles are living much better than they were four years ago. Spa towns at a time when it is some weekend or vacation are filled. We see that improvement is significant. And that's what you need to get satisfaction from. I have also learned that among the countries of the European Union at the moment we are a country which has basically taken the lead in terms of gross domestic product growth. The feature of this government is that economic success translates into improving the situation of the whole society, not just a small group of chosen people. That is why this initiative must be applauded with all joy and satisfaction, with satisfaction that this has happened. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u76	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that you have tabled proposals of a legislative nature in writing by Senator Rulewski. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? Come, Minister, to the bleacher.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u77	Mr. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! As regards the proposal itself This proposal was also presented at the committee meeting, which discussed the proposal of Senator Rulewski. The government's position was negative and I stand by it. As for the votes in the debate, of course, I thank you for this discussion because it is important. There is no single model for family policy in Europe. There are countries that spend very large amounts of money on pro-family policies, and these effects, even in terms of demography, are not there either. I think that our program, the program that we're doing, the family of 500+, has, as I said before, 2 features. One feature is the improvement of the demographic situation. This, of course, is visible and will, I hope, still be visible in all the indicators we are talking about, and the indicator that is most meaningful here is the fertility rate. The second feature is the issue of improving the material situation. The improvement of the material situation of families is also very important here. It is difficult to disagree with the words of Senator Radziwiłł, Minister, regarding, for example, how this will work. about the first child. Today we do not have an answer to this question yet, but we can assume that in this case too, if there is this prospect of material support, some mothers or families will decide to have their first child. The example of France often falls here. France has been implementing a very large financial expenditure policy for 30 years. Yeah, 30 years in France, there's this policy. And it must also be made clear that the very high fertility rate in France is that of immigrant children, it was such a high yield when it comes to childhood. In the case of our neighbours, Germans, who also spend large amounts of money on family policy, the fertility rate is not too high, is at 1.7. So the fact that we're getting this indicator going up... It's also important to grow. If in 2015 we were talking about 1.25 and today, for 2018 we are talking about 1.45 or 1.47 Because that's how we predict it, this increase is significant. Of course, if there are fewer people, fewer women who give birth to children, then direct growth is lower, but the process we have started is beneficial and there is agreement on that. This program is universal, targeted at everyone and it is positive. Further changes that we are going to propose, or on which we are going to discuss, must go in those directions that you have also talked about here. We, after all these changes and the introduction of the 500+ family programme, will spend more than 4% in 2020 on the country's family policy. GDP. This will be one of the highest indicators of GDP in terms of resources allocated to family policy in the European Union. And this is what will go directly to Polish families. We hope that on the one hand this will improve our demographic situation, and on the other hand it will significantly improve the material situation of families, about which you are also here. Yeah, you did. So thank you again for this discussion. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u78	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Employment Promotion Act and the institutions of the labour market. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1166 and the report of the committee In print No 1166 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Antoni Szymański, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u79	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy an opinion on the amendment of the Employment Promotion Act and the institutions of the labour market. The Act of 26 April 2019 amending the Employment Promotion Act and the Labour Market Institutions adapts the Act amended to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 6 June 2018. The Constitutional Tribunal ruled in that Law that Article. paragraph 34a. 3c of the Employment Promotion Act is incompatible with Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 and 5 in conjunction with Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 and Article 3 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control This provision authorised the issue of a regulation on how to establish the aid profile and how to deal with it. The Constitutional Tribunal found this incompatible with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, which guarantees that only a law can oblige disclosure of information concerning its person and determine the rules and modalities for collecting and making such information available. In turn restrictions on the exercise of constitutional freedoms and rights can only be laid down in the law and only if they are necessary in a democratic state for its security or public order or for the protection of the environment, health and public morality or the freedom and rights of others. Such restrictions shall not affect the essence of freedom and rights. The opinion proposed repealing the entire regulation on profiling unemployment aid. The aid profile shall mean the appropriate range of forms of aid set out in the Act due to the need for a specific unemployed person. The aid profile shall be established on the basis of the provisions of the Employment Promotion Act and the Regulation of the Minister for Labour and Social Policy of 14 May 2014 on profiling aid to the unemployed. The arguments in favour of deciding to withdraw profiling assistance to the unemployed were negative in relation to this institution's position as ombudsman, the General Data Protection Officer, the Supreme Audit Chamber and non-governmental organisations. The results of the evaluation of the aid profiling system have also shown that it is not flexible, inefficient and does not allow them to manage unemployment aid more effectively. During the meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Minister Stanisław Szwed, who presented such arguments for amending the law, also answered questions. One amendment was tabled at the committee meeting. In the vote, the committee voted in favour of adopting a law without amendments, one person opposed this proposal. The Act was passed by the Sejm at its 80th meeting on 26 April this year. It was voted in favour of 406 Members, 3 against, no abstentions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u80	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. The project was brought in by the government. The Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: At the moment not.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of you like to raise a question like that? No one's checking in. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. [[Secretary Waldemar Sługocki: No one signed up.)]] I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the bill... [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr. Marshal, the Senator rapporteur will be with you shortly. Why don't we take a break?]] One minute break... [[And who's the rapporteur?]] Senator Shark is needed. [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 21 to 14 minutes 23]] We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Law amending the Labour Code and some other laws. [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo...]] The text of the act is contained in print 1164, and the report of the committee In print No 1164 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Legislative Committee, Senator Grażyna Sztark, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! Today, a meeting was held between the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, where we adopted a law amending the Labour Code and some other laws. These are changes that were long-awaited and are very important, and have been prepared by the Office of the President of the Republic. The changes were mostly... As it had already been agreed, these were changes in the labour code. They concerned mainly the issue of work certificates or work problems that have often occurred. Today, a single amendment was introduced in the bill which was prepared by the Sejm, which was accepted by all the members of both committees, with the approval of the President's representative. This amendment concerned Article. 1, where in point 7, after the words "Article." A colon is added, the remainder is marked as lithium. b and point (b) is added. and the following: (a) §1 is replaced by the following:.§1: Due to termination or termination of employment, the employer is required to issue a work certificate to the worker on the day on which the employment relationship is terminated if he does not intend to establish another employment relationship within 7 days of the date of termination or termination of the previous employment relationship. If, for objective reasons, it is not possible for a worker or a person authorised by him or her to issue a work certificate within that period, the employer shall, within 7 days of the expiry of that period, forward the work certificate to the worker or to that person via a postal operator within the meaning of the Law of 23 November 2012 (Journal of Laws No. U. z 2018 r., poz. 2188) or otherwise serves them. The work certificate shall cover the period or periods of employment for which a work certificate has not yet been issued. Please accept this bill. This is an innovative proposal, and probably everyone, including the designer, will be watching if there will be any change yet, but this concrete proposal is very good. She regulates a very important issue, because a large number of workers had to wait long for a work certificate, but she often had a huge problem here. This law imposes a certain obligation on an entrepreneur or an employer and introduces a different way of regulating the absence of such a certificate. Thank you very much... As I say, I would like us to accept this as it was during the meeting of both committees, and there this bill, which was long awaited, was accepted with the approval of all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u82	At present, the senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you so much and I'm sorry again.]] The bill was filed by the president. Mr Andrzej Dera, Secretary of State at the President's Registry, was authorised to present the President's position during parliamentary work. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Dera: No.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute's query to the President's representative related to the item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. [[There's one who's willing.]] Excuse me, Senator Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u83	Mr. Marshal! Minister! This law adds an article. 971, which tells what happens if the employer fails to issue a work certificate to an employee. And there, of course, is the possibility of appealing to the court. Only that this possibility exists for 3 years, according to limitation periods. And that would be... That is to say, these substantive provisions are very right and desirable, only that most of such phenomena related to the non-certification of work took place earlier than 3 years before the entry into force of the law, and especially when the pension reform was introduced and the initial capital was fixed, etc. It was that period, about 15 years ago. The question is whether it would not be appropriate to supplement the transitional provisions of the Act by amending, of course, the law which would give them In fact, I think they were complaining to the president. The possibility of obtaining a work certificate through a judicial route Or ersatz, a substitute for this work certificate. It was for the purposes of those processes that occurred at that time. I know that there's a possibility that it's so interchangeable when it comes to establishing initial capital, granting the default period of the fact of the job... There is another issue, namely the possibility of proving before the court, e.g. by testimony of witnesses or other evidence But not the documents, the amount of remuneration that were received at the time. Suppose the employer disappears from the labour market, and for some reason, often uninvolved by the employee, there is no documentation regarding the salary. We can prove the very existence of a job, we can prove the existence of a job, but we can't prove the amount of remuneration we received. Shouldn't this possibility be included in this law?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u84	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u85	Dear Marshal, Dear Senate! The problem is complex, but first I want to tell you who wrote to the President about it. They're more like people who are currently having trouble finding their ex-employer. I know that this process has been going on for years, as the senator said before, that such cases have happened, but the severity of this phenomenon is particularly recent in recent years. Because of the dynamics of our business development. Small companies are being created, and a rapidly changing business environment causes these companies to disappear for various reasons and some of these employers simply do not fulfil the obligations that arise, for example, from the Labour Code. This involves the issue of work certificates. There were situations where the company was just disappearing overnight, employees were coming there the next day, but they didn't work anymore because the owner, as they say, disappeared. They stayed with a big problem, what to do with it. And there was a gap in the law, it worked for many years. Why wasn't it changed before? Because maybe those cases were sporadic. It's getting so intense right now... After all the correspondence to the President, it was obvious that this was a serious social problem. When we started looking at this phenomenon... After these first signals we began to analyze what the problem is, why these people can't get work certificates. It turned out that in such situations so far these people were simply helpless. They were helpless because there was no institution that could... there was no document that... As the employer disappeared and did not issue a work certificate, the employees had a serious problem documenting their work. And in order to prevent that from happening, we have created this bill that will solve such problems. What you said about the past... There are a number of issues in the Social Security Office regarding the establishment of initial capital and, consequently, future retirement. These disputes take place in a different procedure, in a different mode, on the ZUS line of the ZUS client. These provisions do not cover these situations and such disputes. Let me put it this way: these proposals concern all those who have in recent years... And this is where I want to calm down, because there was a three-year limitation period, so that if someone hasn't taken any action within three years of leaving the job, didn't pursue their rights, that claim actually expired, but in a situation where... They wrote to the president that they wanted, they needed such a document, but they can't get it. In my opinion, And I don't think it's just me. At this point, they show activity, desire to obtain the relevant document. Yes? Therefore, this limitation period does not cover them, because at the time when they take action, the limitation period shall be suspended. Therefore, this will not be a problem. They will be able to demonstrate before each organ, and here we are talking specifically about the court... So that if anyone made such an accusation that it had already expired, such a person would be able to say, sorry very much, but I went to the ZUS, to the president, to the voivodeship; I wanted to, I just couldn't get this certificate because there were no regulations. From this point of view, it is so safe that for those who could not receive this document, and who made efforts to do so... Therefore, there is no need for transitional provisions. This solution, which is proposed in this law, is enough. When it comes to events 20, 30 or 40 years ago, because even such cases are in the ZUS, this project simply does not apply to them. We talked to the judges about this. If we were to make such a record, what could we lead to? To the next collapse in the judiciary, because suddenly, it would turn out that all those people who are in disputes today... This is being done in civil courts, because this is a procedure for determining the amount of this remuneration. The defendant is over there... Otherwise, the pages are employees, former employees, and ZUS. So that there would be such a fear that a huge amount would be thrown into this procedure, and this procedure would not serve that purpose. She's just supposed to serve to get people who have recently lost their jobs not because of their own fault, but because of their employer's fault. The employer's gone, he's gone. They were not able to obtain the documents they needed, they could obtain a judicial decision by judicial procedure, which they would then submit to the various authorities of the State and which would be treated by those authorities as a work certificate. This is something that has not been in Poland in the current legal system, but, as you can see, it is very necessary. That's how I can answer that question to the senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u86	Do you have any further questions? No. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Dera: Is that all the questions?]] Yes. Thank you very much. [[Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Dera: Thank you very much.]] No further questions. The Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Thank you very much. The Minister said everything.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. I'm opening a discussion. [[No one signed up.]] I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item five of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Social Labour Inspection Act. I would remind you that this is a draft law implementing the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. The draft is included in print No 1071, and the committee's report In print No 1071 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Wojciech Piecha, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law. I invite the senator to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u87	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Report from the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions on the draft law amending the Act on Social Labour Inspection. The Commissions at their joint meeting on 20 March 2019 examined the draft law submitted by the applicants at first reading and request the adoption without amendment of the annexed draft law and the draft resolution on the submission of that draft law to the Sejm. Act amending the Social Labour Inspection Act in Art. 1 states that in the Law of 24 June 1983 on Social Labour Inspection in Article. 8 after paragraph. 2. the following paragraph shall be added. The following subparagraph shall be added: 2, as far as personal data are concerned, may be met with the consent of the data subjects. The Act shall enter into force 14 days after the date of publication. Reason. The aim of the project is to make the social inspector dependent on the work of information and to provide him with documents where it would involve the provision of personal data to the employee, on obtaining the employee's consent. The draft adapts the system of law to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 26 April 2018. His operative part was announced on 2 May 2018. The Constitutional Tribunal ruled that the Article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 The Social Labour Inspection Act, in so far as it does not make the obligation to provide the social inspector with information and to provide him with a document subject to the consent of the employee in cases where the fulfilment of that obligation would involve the provision of personal data of that worker is incompatible with Article. 47 constitutions. A social labour inspection is a social service performed by workers to ensure safe and hygienic working conditions by the workplace and to protect workers' rights under labour law. Social labour inspectors shall select and dismiss workers of the establishment from among the employees of the establishment concerned. In accordance with the contested provision, the social labour inspector shall have the right to require the head of the work establishment and the branch, department and staff of information and to provide him with documents on matters falling within his scope. The Constitution of the Republic of Poland states that everyone has the right to legal protection of private, family life, honor and good name and to decide on his or her personal life; it is art. 47. The protection of private life includes, among others, information autonomy, which means the right to decide for themselves to disclose information relating to themselves, as well as the right to control such information if they are at the disposal of other entities. The scope of information autonomy is not limited to the protection of data of a strict nature personal, personal, but also includes property data. In this context, the problem arises as to whether the right of the inspector to have access to employee documents does not undermine the constitutional right of other workers to protect private life. The element of the protection of private life is the information autonomy of each person, which means the ability to decide on the extent to which access to data relating to him is possible. The consent of the person concerned to make the information available to another entity is essential. In the view of the TK, the views put forward by the Supreme Court should also address the problem of protecting employee information autonomy in the context of the performance of control functions by social labour inspectors. It's about art. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2, which obliges the employer and the employee to provide information and to present documents on all matters falling within the scope of the inspector's action. According to art. Section 4 (2) of the Social Labour Inspector has the right to monitor compliance with legislation, including on parental, youth and disabled workers' rights, leave or benefits in respect of accidents at work and occupational diseases. Authorisation provided for in Article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 means that in certain situations there is also the possibility for the Social Labour Inspector to request information and documents containing the employee's personal data. As the Court has already explained, the basic requirement of the content of the principle of information autonomy for each person is a prerequisite for obtaining the consent of the person concerned to make available the information relating to him or her. This is not the case for an article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2, therefore it is incompatible with the Constitution, with Article. 47 constitutions. The proposed enforcement of the judgment consists in supplementing the contested regulation on the provision that the request by the social work inspector to supply information and to produce documents relating to personal data may be met with the consent of the data subjects. The opinions and comments submitted in the framework of the consultation are provided... The draft law is in line with European Union law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u88	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit questions to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would like to remind you that the Legislative Commission has also authorised it to represent Senator Wojciech Piecha. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. [[Thank you.]] Would a government representative, Minister Swed, like to speak? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u89	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to thank the Senate Legislative Commission for taking this initiative. A change that introduces regulations on the functioning of social labour inspection, data sharing... It is important that the social labour inspectors have the opportunity to carry out their tasks in checking or checking the health and safety conditions of the workplace. The position of our ministry and government is positive about this change. So thank you for this initiative.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u90	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit a request to the government representative present at the meeting. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up for this discussion. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1148 and the report of the Commission In print 1148 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u91	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It has been my honour to present a report to the Committee on Budget and Public Finance on the Law on the amendment of the Act on VAT on goods and services and of certain other laws adopted by the Sejm on 12 April 2019. The Seym Law was examined at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance on 7 May. As regards the subject-matter of the Act, the Act aims to further seal the system of taxes on goods and services and to minimise the risk of unwittingly involving honest taxpayers in the carousels of Vatov. The amendment introduces a list of VAT taxable persons containing information on taxable persons and facilitating the rapid identification of their counterparties. This list will be made available in the Public Information Bulletin on the website of the Minister for Finance. As far as the details of the bill are concerned, there are actually four areas of the bill. The first part is the amendments to the VAT Act which aim to replace the existing 2 lists kept pursuant to Article. 96b of the Act. List of entities in respect of which the head of the tax office has not registered or which have been deleted from the register as VAT taxable persons and the list of entities whose registration as VAT taxable persons has been restored 1 list of VAT taxable persons, which will be extended to include all entities registered as VAT taxable persons. This list will be kept up-to-date, updated once a day each working day. With regard to tax ordination, the amendment introduces If the payment of the claim is transferred to an account other than the account included in the VAT taxable person's list, the joint and several liability of the taxable person to whom the supply of the goods or services was made, together with the supplier of the supply or service concerned, for the tax arrears of that entity, in part the tax and services in proportion to that supply or service. The joint and several liability will concern transactions between entrepreneurs whose value exceeds PLN 15 000. This is the amount above which, so to speak, this mechanism will work. Joint and several liability will be excluded if the taxable person pays under the split payment mechanism. The exemption from liability will also be possible if the taxable person informs the payment to an account other than that included in the list of the head of the tax office responsible for the issuer of the invoice within 3 days from the date of the transfer order. As a result of the introduction of new solutions, the law extends the article. 33b (3) of the tax administration, enabling the liability arising from the decision to rule on its joint and several liability not only in the case of the supply of goods from Annex 13 of the VAT Act, but also in the case of the supply of goods and services in the regime of newly introduced joint and several liability, to be secured on the taxable person's property. With regard to changes to the PIT and CIT Act, it is foreseen that the cost of obtaining revenues from economic activities will not include expenditure in the part in which the payment made with another trader concerning transactions exceeding 15 thousand PLN will be carried out by transfer to an account other than that included in the VAT taxable person list. Another element will be the specific regulation of cases where a third party, in connection with a factoring contract, transfer of claims, transfer or other contract, pays the supplier or service provider to an account which is not included in the VAT taxable person's list. The new provisions of the Act require a taxable person, a third party, on the day of the transfer order, to be identified with income to the extent that the payment has been made on account other than that contained in the VAT list. This solution will not apply to transactions other than those carried out between traders and with a value exceeding PLN 15 000 and to transactions notified under the said law to the competent head of the tax office. With regard to the Act on the Principles of Registering and Identification of Taxpayers and payers, changes have been made to adapt to new regulations, clarification, codification and ordering of rules and substantive changes, including extending data not covered by tax confidentiality to the bank account numbers of the taxpayer or to registered accounts in the cooperative credit and savings bank, of which he is a member, as indicated in the identification declaration or update notification. According to the amendment of the Act on cooperative savings and credit banks, executions will be subject to the cash collected on the taxable person's registered account in the SKOK listed on the VAT taxpayer list. Thus, only registered accounts that do not serve the business will be free of classes. The basic date of entry into force of the Act is 1 September 2019. With effect from 1 January 2020, the amendments to the PIT and CIT and tax legislation are to enter into force. On the day following the date of publication of the Act, the adaptation provisions are to enter into force, the purpose of which is to draw up a list of entities registered as taxable persons. The committee held a discussion on the comments of the Senate Legislative Office. The Legislative Office has prepared 5 comments. In fact, out of these 5 comments, only one, the fourth point, contained that, so to speak, the proposed amendment. However, at the committee meeting, the Minister and the staff of the Ministry explained that, in principle, these amendments were not necessary. These comments were actually related to technical legislative issues and to certain technical requirements that the Ministry knows about. It's just that the law isn't exactly technical, but it's due to the situation. I think the Minister will answer that question if there are any questions. One question which was asked by Leviathan concerned subaccounts, i.e. bills, such mass payments. The individual account of the entity for which the amounts are paid is, so to speak... This IBAN number of the bank account makes it possible to encode the number of a particular client, and here the question came from the representative of Leviathan, whether these accounts would not be, so to speak, a technical problem, because the mass of these accounts, the number of those accounts... The Minister explained that the main core of the bank account, de facto the account of that payee, would be, so to speak, preserved and only the part not identifying the particular payer will be taken into account in the case of transfers. In addition to this second argument from the Minister, it was the fact that these so-called. mass payments concern energy, probably phones, and these are amounts that do not normally exceed 15 thousand PLN. Thus, such events may be of an episode. After this discussion, the vote took place. A proposal has been made for the adoption of a law without amendments, which has received unanimous acceptance of the members of the committee, and this is the recommendation I am submitting to the High House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u92	Currently, the senators can report from the place of the inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Would a government representative, Mr Filip Świtała, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, like to speak? Come on up to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u93	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law is a law that introduces more certainty about economic turnover. This is a law which combines the existing VAT lists, gives more information to economic operators and contains 2 essential features, namely it shows next to the NIP number and the fact that someone is a registered VAT taxable person, also the bank account number to which to pay for goods or services. Whoever does this is safe. And that's the first essential feature. The second important feature is that this new VAT taxable person list will contain full information about such, say, a private business entity's life. Economic operators will not only be able to check all this information on this list at any time, but will also be able to sort of drag this information into their financial and accounting systems in order to avoid any confusion. When paying into a bank account, it will be shown whether this account is correct and whether this payment is therefore a safe payment. I ask the High House to pass this important bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u94	Currently, the senators may submit requests to the representative of the government relating to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question? Mr. Senator Klein. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Well, this bill is good, and I think there's no particular doubt about it, we'll support it. I would like to ask you about the issues that I already asked at the committee meeting. Firstly, will there be any additional costs for small businesses due to the entry into force of this law, any administrative difficulties in implementing these provisions? And second question. The bill will come into force in September. Right? The most important information for the taxpayer will be carried by this register prepared by the Ministry, in which will be those taxpayers who are not fraudsters, in short. Each of the entrepreneurs will be able, as the Minister said, to download from the system information that the institution is recognised and credible. Whether in practice this will also be based on the fact that if someone e.g. will want to issue a VAT invoice, it will be able to enter in the company's NIP system and immediately the invoice will appear... Will it be possible, so to speak, to include in the invoice system? It is already the case today that many entrepreneurs in this way draw information about the company - enough that they will report to the NIP. In the system they have it, this type of company, with such a name and such characteristics appears there. Will this system operate in this way and it will really be ready for September and there will be no problems? Will he be easy to use for a simple, small entrepreneur who wants to be a reliable payer and entrepreneur? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u96	Please, Minister. [[The question is probably longer than the answer. If you say...]] We'll see. [[...that yes, well... everything will be simple and clear.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator! High Izbo! Thank you for asking. The answer is yes. That's a simple answer. The administrative costs that the senator asked about are estimated at about PLN 500,000. You're gonna have to... [[But on the government's side, not...]] Yeah, on our side, not on the business side. It will be necessary to consolidate existing lists and enrich their functionality. These are the IT jobs we're gonna have to do. Yes, it will be possible, available all the functionalities that the senator asked about. [[And they'll be ready for September?]] And they'll be ready for September, yes. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u98	Are there any further questions for the Minister? None of your senators... [[Here it is. Here it is.]] Mr. Senator Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u99	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question as to whether you will be able to make it to September 1st. I'll tell you exactly what I mean. Do you have aggregated account numbers somewhere at the moment, and that would be that there will be 2 lists combined, or will it be necessary to try and enter account numbers separately after the two lists have been merged? These are two different ways of carrying out this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u100	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u101	Thank you very much. Yes, I confirm we'll be ready for September 1st. We have these account numbers in the IT systems now, but it may turn out that some of these account numbers will require some adaptation, and that's because there are companies that use bank accounts so-called. private. These private bank accounts will unfortunately have to be replaced by billing accounts for the purposes of this law. This is where we'll expect action from the operator. He's gonna have to report a proper account on that list. That's basically it. [[If you don't mind my asking...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u102	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u103	So a certain action from the taxpayer will be required. So the question is, is he going to be notified separately by you, or is he going to read and know about this?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u104	We will not personally notify everyone. It is so that it is an obligation to receive payment of more than 15 thousand PLN for the bill of account. This duty has existed for a long time. These amounts have changed. At first it was 15 thousand euros, now it is 15 thousand zlotys, while the obligation itself has existed for a long time. The fact that someone doesn't use a bill of account is, in a way, avoiding an obligation, as I said, an existing one.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u105	Are there any further questions for the Minister? No one's checking in. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up for the discussion, for the vote. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Stanisław Karczewski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u106	We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Tax on the Extraction of Certain Cosmines. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1158 and the Commission's reports In the letters Nos 1158 A and 1158 B. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to submit a report to the committee. And then I'll ask Senator Krystian Probier. Now, on behalf of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Mr. Senator Krzysztof Frost. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u107	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Yesterday, the Committee on Budgets and Finance considered the fossils bill, the so-called "Cosmines Act." copper tax. This tax was introduced in 2013, under the rule of the Civic Platform. Today, the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki made such a decision to reduce this tax by 15%. There were KGHM representatives here who thanked the committee at its meeting for this initiative. This bill was a parliamentary project, which Mr Krzysztof Kubów referred to from the Committee on State Treasury and Energy, the Parliamentary Committee. Senator Klein, Senator Czarnobaj and Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski spoke in the discussion. Senator Klein was asking about the government's position. A representative of the government in the person of the Deputy Director of the Department at the Ministry of Finance informed that today there is no official position on this law. And as a result of the vote... I put a motion to adopt the bill without amendment as the conductor: 4 Senators were in favour, 1 Senator abstained. I would just add that there was also a position of Leviathan, which generally supported this law. It was quite wide, because in this position representatives of entrepreneurs from Leviathan generally raised the issue of the harmfulness of this tax for the Polish economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u108	Thank you very much, Senator. And now I would like to ask you to present a report to the Committee on National Economy and Innovation by Senator Krystian Probier. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u109	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Because we were at the same committee meeting, and both a fellow senator and I are telling the truth, I have nothing to add here. I confirm what my colleague has said, but if you allow me, I will add a few words of comment because I have been a member of the Committee on Sustainable Management of Mineral Resources for many, many years. We've been trying to fight this tax for a long time. From the time it was introduced And it didn't help. Unfortunately, the government of our predecessors had a very tough policy in this regard. I'd like you to... [[And so is the government of successors.]] [[Voice from the room: For three years the same...]] [[But let's not comment. Later, Mr. Senator... well, now I've turned off the microphone myself.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Mr. Senator, you're welcome to take the floor later in the discussion. We do not have a direct dialogue, although we are, of course, in favour of dialogue. You're welcome, Senator.]] Thank you... [[Order has to be.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Senator, please don't comment. There are questions, there will be a discussion later.]] So this change in height... [[There you go.]] This change in the rate of tax, its reduction is a very good step towards the future. [[Two years, and the PiS government three years...]] And it is also important because of this area that I am dealing with directly: the management of mineral raw materials. If there are high tax rates, unfortunately the entrepreneur... Everyone has to pay their taxes. The entrepreneur chooses, in quotes, the most tasty bits, the ones with the highest useful content of both copper and silver. And it's kind of lost in some way. And most importantly, what KGHM's representatives and also those companies who assess their activities represented: investment activity has decreased. This high tax reduced investment activity in the field of exploration or recognition of new deposits. And we are the eighth largest copper producer, one of the world's leading silver producers. And, ladies and gentlemen, it is estimated that in the next several years the consumption or demand for copper will be at least forty-several percent higher. And it was advisable of all means that we undertake our work. 'Cause we have potential resources. It's about recognizing these deposits so that they can use them a little bit. By the way, the construction of this tax deviates slightly from solutions in other countries. This rate or that amount paid under the tax cannot later be deducted from revenue or revenue. In the world there is such a concept as the Royalty, these are charges... Of course, you pay everywhere. But here it's a little high. And this is only related to the average value within a month of copper. And costs are not taken into account. After all, there are various stages of investment development. During the search these costs are the biggest, because we only spend, and we gain nothing. So I think it's very good that this tax has been... I'm sorry for the intrusion, but I couldn't take this opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u110	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Yes.]] Senator Sławomir Rybicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u111	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for Senator Mr. Frost. I would like to ask whether there have been aspects of such analyses forecasting the impact of this decision on public finances during the debate, i.e. how over these 7 years the state budget has been powered by the so-called. the copper tax and what will happen, what are the simulations of the budgetary implications after the entry into force of the law, which this tax reduces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u112	Thank you very much, Senator. And now maybe Senator Kazimierz Klein. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u113	Mr. Marshal, this problem that Senator Rybicki pointed out was a problem that I pointed out at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, and I asked that question. Because, of course, this is an important issue from the point of view of the state budget. And I asked for the opinion of the government or the minister responsible for the state budget on this matter. Unfortunately, there was no such position, there were no representatives. And I'd like to ask your marshal... The director, the deputy director, wasn't a government representative, was she? She was... The principal wasn't authorized to do that. Anyway, she said it herself. Mr. Marshal, was a government representative invited to the meeting on this matter? I asked at the hearing, it was my formal conclusion... [[But, Senator, now there are questions...]] So that's the question... [[...to the senators.]] Yes. [[Not to me. And I'm not answering any questions.]] But that's the question... Then I'm sending them to Senator Mr. Mr. Frost. Because there was a request by me to have a representative of the government in plenary so that the government's position on the matter, however it may be, of the budget, would be presented. I'm not saying it has to be in writing, it could be an oral request to your marshal to invite a government representative to this meeting... [[I understand, Senator, but...]] Was this done by your committee president?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u114	Mr. Senator, the government is not obliged to present its position unless the bill was a government project. Well, there's no such thing as... We keep saying that on different occasions. There is no government here and there is no obligation. Please, Senator, you will answer the questions, and then there will be others.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u115	As I recall, Senator, your deputy director of the department was authorized. At least that's what she said. To represent the government in this matter. But she also informed us that there is no official government position on this matter. So it's not like there was no government representative at the committee meeting. Why isn't there an official government position? Well, I can't answer that question. And when it comes to simulations, I can presume But that's my presumption. That if the government were determined to oppose the introduction of this law, it would protest. But the bill was, as Mr Marshal said, a parliamentary project, many Members signed up to it, and it is also the implementation of our 2015 electoral commitment. At that time in Lubin, the present messenger, already the candidate for the Prime Minister, Mrs Beata Szydło, made such commitments. So today we are also trying to fulfil our commitments in this area. At the committee meeting, Mr Kubów said that this was the first step towards the complete abolition of this tax, because we are now able to reduce this tax by 15% in the light of budgetary realities. I am now answering Senator Rybicki's questions. For the budget reduction of this tax is PLN 240 million per year... I mean for KGHM - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. [[That's the maximum...]] So that's how much less it is for the budget, and for KGHM the savings are about PLN 240 million. This tax ranges from 1.5 billion to 1 billion 900 000 each year, such annual payments in connection with this tax are paid by KGHM. Over the years, since 2013, KGHM has paid about PLN 11 billion for this tax.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u116	Thank you very much, Senator. You volunteered, Mr. Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u117	I'd like to confirm those words. Of course, there were no official data on this, but the analysis of audit firms' reports shows that it is up to 240 and 250 million a year, that is to say that there would be an advantage. In quotation marks For KGHM. However, it must be borne in mind that the reduction of this tax may increase the intensity of searches in the country. KGHM is a global player, has its businesses in the United States, Canada, Chile and Poland, so it doesn't matter where the money is invested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u118	Thank you very much. Senator Rotnicka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u119	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question in this matter, perhaps naive: is the tax for each company or for each company determined individually, or is it based on any guidelines of the Ministry of Economy that deals with it? I also have a question, or actually a philosophical impression: do we care so much about changing the environment and exhausting all of our raw materials to the limit just so that the copper company has something to do and that the voters of Mrs. Beata Szydło are satisfied?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u120	Which senator does the senator address this question to? [[Please?]] Which senator? Because... [[I don't know who's in control here. Both... one on finance and the other on the environment.]] Oh, so first one senator and then another. Okay, here you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u121	You didn't ask a naive question. But here the situation is specific, because only one company in Poland, KGHM, is involved in copper ore mining and copper production. Well, in view of this view, you might think that this tax was constructed for this one company. But it's not like that, he's for the whole industry. In our case, this is one entity. As far as the second question is concerned, it must be taken into account that environmental damage is not as important as you raise, but it is important that we can improve the financial results of the company. It's not a situation that... you referred to Prime Minister Beata Szydło. The need to improve the company's financial results is due to the fact that the previous government took not very, to put it mildly, favourable financial decisions and these huge investments in the world, e.g. Sierra Gorda in Chile, which was to generate income, is constantly in need of funding, not only has the investment not yet returned, but even needs further funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u122	You're still a senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u123	Mr. Marshal! Senator! My colleague has already answered this question to a large extent. Tax is for all companies that extract copper in Poland. As it happens, at this moment it is only KGHM Polska Miedź. They are probably for one or two companies issued concessions in Poland for the exploitation of deposits. If these companies make such an effort and start mining copper, they will, of course, also pay this tax. The tax is quite complicated, there is a pattern on the basis of which this tax is calculated. And he was introduced by your colleagues, so if you didn't agree with the tax, then you had to protest. That's one thing. Second line. In this district there are no voters of Mrs.Beata Szydło as such, because Mrs.Szydło is from Krakow, from Małopolska, and he is running there, but there was such a commitment to the inhabitants of the Miedziego Zagłęb, i.e. de facto the entire former Legnica voivodeship, because KGHM about the entire former Legnica voivodeship. Well, not all of it, but practically all of it. The expectation and trade unionists, and residents, and local governments, and the company itself for the reductions in this area was very, very large. And where did this expectation come from? First of all, it came from what my previous speaker said here, namely that the previous KGHM board of directors, I think that with the approval of the government, because such an investment could probably not have been made without approval or government, or the then Minister of Treasury of the State, invested a very large amount of money abroad, buying Quadra, a Canadian company, and indirectly through this Canadian deposit company and in the United States, and in Chile, and so far it is not profitable. The investment was for many, many billion zlotys and today the result of these investments is that KGHM is quite seriously indebted, for about 7 billion zlotys. And now, if we're lowering taxes, we're giving KGHM some breath, just that money will stay in the company and go to debt reduction and investment. Because even in addition to what my previous speaker said, I will say that KGHM is still investing, now in Poland, still asking for concessions for copper mining in Poland. Besides, the entire investment process... KGHM's representative, as I recall, talked about PLN 2 billion in total, which are invested in the technological process every year. Last year I was at the opening of a steelworks in Głogów, a new steelworks, after modernization, with new technology. It's still running the Deep Głogów deposit, since we want copper to be mined all the time. Now there's a remodeled Iron Bridge tank, that's what it's called. This is the tank of waste resulting from the technological process, the largest tank in Europe. So KGHM invests all the time, but it also has to deal with foreign investments that are not profitable today. We'll see how it goes over the years. Well, so far KGHM's had some bad luck with these foreign investments. Many, many years ago, there was such a failed investment in the Congo in Africa, also with huge losses, and at the moment we have a huge investment in Chile, which is not yet profitable for KGHM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u124	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Klein. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u125	Mr. Marshal, I have a question for Senator Mr. Frost. My questions are basically questions to the representative of the government, but since there is no representative of the government, I am forced to ask the rapporteur, the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. I would like to ask the senator whether it is some standard practice that when we discuss a change in tax law that directly affects the state budget, the Minister of Finance does not speak in these matters. This is a very serious matter, because it can only mean that in the future We will change the state budget, because it is de facto a change in the state budget, in that way, without government participation, and the government is responsible for economic, tax and so on. Hence the question: is this a standard situation? That's one thing. Two. Has the issue of the loss of this PLN 250 million been included in the budget for the current year? Is there going to be such a defect this year, or is it going to be another defect? Can we get any information on this? And then there's the third thing. That's a question, and at the same time a comment on it. Well, in the days of the Platform, this tax was in force for two years, and here Senator Profierz said it was the Platform's fault again. For four years, this tax was in force during the PiS regime and everything was fine. I think it's always necessary to introduce It's fair that we just don't differ where there's no need. And the tax issue... There is a clear connection with the budget and the fact that there is no representative of the Minister of Finance, who has a clear position on this matter, is astonishing. Doesn't that surprise you?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u126	Thank you very much. Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u127	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I, too, address Senator Mr. Mr. Frost. In his previous speech, the senator was actually talking about the ratio legis of this law, about the fact that it is really about improving the company's finances. That's how I figured it out. That's what Senator Probier said about it, because he said it was really about the financial situation of the company. But do you have sufficient knowledge and conviction that all other instruments that the owner has, in this case the Treasury, have been used to repair the situation of the company in a normal manner? I do not want to comment on which investments were good and which were bad, but there are tools on the side of the company's management and certainly the owner to try to repair or improve the situation of the company through the standard activities that are applied in other industries and in other companies. And one more word about the absence of a government representative. This is one of the most important segments of the Polish mining industry. In normal legislation, however, it seems unusual for such important matters to be decided by even the best-informed parliamentarians, without the possibility of asking the owner's representative a question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u128	Thank you. Senator Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister, I would like to address the Minister of Fly, who has come here for the next point! Indeed, it is amazing that the largest Polish company does not deserve the attention of a representative of the government during the Senate session. I have a question for Senator Mr. Frost. What resulted in almost 4, for more than three years, that tax being applied? He was a burden on a good company, especially during intense foreign investments. And in the month of the European Parliamentary elections, three months before the parliamentary elections it is reduced. What prevented it from being lowered much earlier?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u130	Thank you very much. Please answer me. Minister Mucha doesn't have to answer right now. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland Paweł Mucha: Thank you, Mr Marshal.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u131	Senator Kleina. First line. I will repeat once again that at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Finance I do not know how it was at the meeting of the Economic Committee; there are 2 rapporteurs, because the committees were sitting separate, on other dates there was a representative of the government in the person of the deputy director of the department from the Ministry of Finance. And the data I was talking about, the 240 million, it wasn't the data I read myself, it was the data that... Senator Kleina was at the committee meeting, so he knows it very well. Director... [[I asked that question myself.]] In response to Senator Kleina's question, the director of the Ministry of Finance has read how much KGHM tax he paid back in the various years of this tax. There was a government representative and this government representative said that there was no official government position for this bill. I want us to correct the statement that there was no representative. He was a government representative. I'm talking about the budget committee and the finance committee. That's the first line. Second thing. This savings is 240 million a year. If we introduce this tax from the middle of the year, it will be less. The third issue raised here. Why are we lowering this tax today? This was the initiative of the Group of Members, whose rapporteur Mr Kuba from Lubin was rapporteur. We try to do everything we have promised to do as far as possible. We want to achieve as much of our programme as possible by the end of this term, with which we went to the elections. One of the points of the scheme was the changes in the tax applicable to KGHM. I'm happy as a senator. Although this is not my constituency, this is Senator Dorota Chudowska's constituency. That we're reducing taxes today. I stress: we are reducing taxes today. You have repeatedly said that law and justice raise taxes. No, Law and Justice are reducing taxes. I am, to be honest, a little surprised by this discussion, because I know that the copper tax reduction initiative also has the support of members from the copper industry from your parliamentary club. I'm surprised... You're the senator, fortunately, from the law and justice of this area. I'm surprised you're even picking that up. First you introduced this tax... Management of the Civic Platform during the government led to the situation in which KGHM, instead of investing tens of billions of zlotys in Poland, invested them abroad. So far, these investments have no tangible effect. Today, Senator Rybicki asked if there were any improvements to KGHM. As far as I know. Yeah. I'm not following this because I don't even have that kind of opportunity, and I'm not allowed to influence the management of the company as a parliamentarian. However, I know that numerous restructuring efforts are being undertaken at KGHM so that the investment in Sierra Gorda mine in Chile is profitable. From the media information it is known that the concept of selling this mine was even considered. It was withdrawn because the sale of Sierra Gorda's investment would mean huge losses that KGHM would suffer. According to the Accounting Act, this investment has been overestimated, these assets and accounts have already been taken into account. KGHM is a public-law company listed on the stock exchange, so all this information must be disclosed and disclosed. Ladies and gentlemen, as I say, you have done two things: on the one hand, you have introduced the tax that charged KGHM and on the other hand, as a result of this investment, you have indebted the KGHM State. KGHM covered this investment, of course, partly from profits and free resources, but also partly from liabilities entered into with banks, in the form of bonds it issued. The effect is that today you have to pay those debts. Today KGHM is indebted to about PLN 7 billion, such is public information, there is no secret here. At this moment, this investment is not yet profitable, not to mention when it will return, because that is why it is invested to have some return on investment. This is a very, very strong expectation, not only in the Miedź Oblast, but also in the entire Lower Silesian Voivodeship, because KGHM is the largest taxpayer in Lower Silesia. The Marshal of the voivodship also strongly supports the tax reduction, as it follows from other regulations that this will of course increase the profits of KGHM, and thus also this copy which the voivodship authorities can count on. As a result, more money will remain in the local government of Lower Silesia, in the Marshal's office. I see superlatives here. Of course, there's always something at the expense of something. This 240 billion PLN will not affect the budget, but I think, ladies and gentlemen, that... [[Voices from the hall: Million.]] Sorry, 240 million. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that we have made such seals in the tax system, in various areas, that these 240 million PLN by which we will reduce the amount in the budget, that is nothing with the 200 billion zlotys in the Savovsk luce, which have not entered the budget for 8 years of the Civic Platform's government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u132	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u133	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The question is also for Senator Mr. Frost. Are there private shareholders in KGHM? Do you have any idea how many there are? Will the tax reduction result in the possibility of paying dividends to these shareholders?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u134	Thank you very much. Wait a minute. Senator Tomasz Grodzki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u135	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I think Senator Czerwiński reads my mind, because I would still opt for a representative of the Ministry of Finance to speak on this matter. Senator Frost, as an intelligent man, probably knows that if this bill comes out, KGHM's shares will probably increase. If the group of Members who signed up for this project... If one of them owns KGHM shares, he could be charged with tampering with the securities market... [[But is it, Senator?]] I don't know, but I think we should... [[Well, if you're not-- Mr. Senator, I'm calling you into order. Check it out, don't say things like that. Why are you using...]] I can't check it out... [[What do you mean, no? Everything's... like it's not...]] ...but the Ministry and KGHM... [[It's very easy to check. Don't press charges like that. You're pressing charges right now...]] [[Speculation.]] I don't press charges...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u136	You're making very serious accusations right now. I'm gonna take your vote. Thank you. There you go, answer the questions. It's very easy to find out what you want. Not that there's an accusation...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u137	Ladies and gentlemen, all that we are talking about is public information. KGHM is a stock company, the share of the State Treasury, I say this from memory It's probably 31% or 32%. and the remaining shares are fragmented on the stock exchange. As far as I can remember. I'm talking from memory. I don't think anybody's over 5%. shares in equity, so it doesn't have to be disclosed. Right? 'Cause it's not until it's over 5%. shares in KGHM... If KGHM pays the dividend, it shall pay it to all who have KGHM's shares, The Treasury and all those minority shareholders. Well, I'm talking about a minority, but in general they're the majority, only that the shareholder is fragmented. I will remind you that in the previous term, certainly under the rule of the Civic Platform, when Mr Donald Tusk was Prime Minister, 10% KGHM shares were sold, 10% it was sold so that the share of the State Treasury was still reduced. We've been introducing certain safeguards by law. Not for KGHM, but for State Treasury companies in general. In order to prevent a certain hostile takeover of these companies, which over many years have been privatized through the stock exchange. Fortunately, in KGHM, but also in Tauron and in many such companies where the State Treasury has a minority stake, because of the fragmentation of the shareholder, it has so-called. O.R. control... I'm gonna ask you a few questions, which marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u138	Mr. Senator, we're talking about the questions that are meant to be about this case, but the answers are also meant to be about this case, not all political issues. Please limit yourself to answering questions, not expanding your thoughts. Thank you very much. Any more questions? No. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act on National Oncology Strategy. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1165 and the report of the Commission In print No 1165 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Dorota Czudowska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u139	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present a report on the Health Committee meeting which took place today in the morning, with the work on the Act on National Oncology Strategy. The bill was presented to Parliament by the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Andrzej Duda. At the meeting of the committee of the President, you were represented by Minister Paweł Mucha. The law is very transparent, it can even be said that in comparison with those laws we are working on, rather short and compact. It is intended to create a document called the National Oncology Strategy. This is not the law that presents this strategy today. The Act contains 14 articles in which the objectives of this strategy are described in Article. 2, on the tasks necessary to achieve those objectives, in Article. 3. Art is extremely important. 4, according to which this strategy will be adopted by the Council of Ministers by a resolution. The Act also contains an article on the financing of this strategy It's an art. 8 and a comprehensive article. 10, which refers to the mode of appointment and work of the oncology strategy team. This law, if we accept it We hope that this will enter into force 14 days after the date of its adoption. What is the main object of this bill? The Parliament of the Republic of Poland, having regard to the current and projected increase in the incidence of cancer and the resulting consequences in the form of high mortality, serious social consequences, including deterioration of the quality of life of the sick and their families, and the significant financial burden associated with the treatment of these diseases for citizens and public finances, considers it necessary to adopt a strategy in the field of oncology for the Republic of Poland and therefore presents this Act for adoption. I am not going to talk more about the purpose of this law, because I am sure that Minister Mucha will present to the Senate the goals and tasks that stand before her. The discussion at the committee meeting was quite lively. The senators were interested in funding, issues related to the work of the team, whether there were enough entities, persons representing the various entities invited to work on this law, or whether there would therefore be more resources for prevention. They answered these questions, in my opinion, exhaustively and Minister Mucha and Minister Gadomski, also present in the Chamber. This law was adopted by the Sejm, no one voted against, 21 Members abstained. It raises no legislative objections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u140	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, the senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by your president. The Deputy Head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, Minister Paweł Mucha, was authorised to present the President's position during parliamentary work. Is the government representative... Would the Minister like to speak? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u141	Dear Marshal, High Senate! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The bill has already been properly characterised by the President, so I will briefly present only the most important elements. As indicated here, the Act creates a legal framework for the development and adoption of the National Oncology Strategy. It is intended to be a comprehensive and long-term document which responds to the increase in the incidence of cancer in Poland and the associated mortality. The main objective of the strategy is primarily to reduce the incidence of cancer, reduce mortality due to these diseases and improve the quality of life of patients and their families. We have indicated here that this reduction in morbidity will be in relation to those forecasts that are presented. Today we know that, due to the extension of the lives of Poles, also due to changes in the increasing number of cancers, these challenges should be addressed in a structured, structured way. We are aware of all the expert work, because it is from expert work that this presidential initiative of the bill came out. Not only members of the National Development Council were involved in this law, but also experts in the form of outstanding specialists from the Polish Oncology Society, national oncology consultant and also from the oncology institute. This voice pointed to the idea of canceling the plans that are adopted in European countries, but these are also experiences such as American ones. The adoption of such a strategy in the form of a resolution of the Council of Ministers is to ensure that there will also be an appropriate legal formula and an appropriate level as regards the scope of tasks to be undertaken which go beyond the sphere of activity of the Ministry of Health. As we have said, the National Oncology Strategy will guide the development of specific areas of the oncology care system and areas supporting oncology and will include measures in the field of prevention, early detection, diagnosis and treatment of cancer diseases. It will also cover the development of education, training of medical staff, improving resource management in the field of oncology. It will therefore be a multi-annual document covering all areas and aspects of action in the fight against cancer. We want the National Oncology Strategy The law thus provides for the years 2020 to 2030. It will be a multi-annual programme within the meaning of the Public Finance Act. As the President has rightly characterised, the objectives of the strategy are set out in Article. 2. The draft strategy, which will be adopted by a resolution of the Council of Ministers, will be presented by the Minister of Health. But the key thing is that this strategy, which is planned for a decade, will be assessed and updated at least every five years and, which is also important, will be based on the timetables for implementing the strategy, which cover the calendar year period. So there is a longer, broader, requirement to update at least every five years, but an annual timetable that will relate to specific actions, precisely those that will be included in the content of the strategy on the basis of recommendations and expert work. Commitment to the strategy is, of course, an obligation for public authorities and institutions and bodies operating in the health system, including in cooperation with local authorities in the medical profession, social organisations, including oncology patients, and all stakeholders in support of the actions set out in the strategy. As it was said, in the article. The 8th Act assumes that the strategy, which will be prepared from public funds, will mainly be implemented through public funds, but the provision also provides for the possibility of using non-public funds. We have pointed to prevention activities or research and innovation activities, even though formulas such as public-private partnerships can be considered here. In the case of these individual annual timetables for the implementation of the strategy, the mere development of the strategy is to be financed by those measures which remain at the disposal of the Minister of Health. Moreover, the presence of Minister Gadomski, but earlier very close cooperation of the President's Office with the Ministry of Health confirms that we are thinking in one spirit and solutions presented by me on behalf of the President of the Republic of Poland have gained approval and support from the Polish government. The Minister of Health is about to monitor the implementation of the strategy and prepare annual reports on the implementation of the strategy. The team that develops the strategy is attached to the Minister of Health. It will consist of representatives of the President of the Republic of Poland, representatives of the Minister of Health, representatives of the NFZ, the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technology and Tarification, the General Chamber of Medicine and the General Chamber of Nurses and Obstetrics, the Conference of Rectors of Academic Medical Universities, representatives of oncology associations, representatives of organizations of cancer patients. This is to be a diverse composition, which will allow you to look at the problems of oncology in a holistic way and propose comprehensive solutions. The strategy would be adopted, presented by the Minister of Health at a later date. than until 30 November 2019 As has been said here, in the absence of votes against, with the support of 387 Members, the law was adopted by the Sejm. As part of the legislative work in the Health Committee, an amendment was tabled to postpone the deadline for the presentation to the Council of Ministers by the Minister for Health of the National Oncological Strategy project. We originally anticipated that such a project would be submitted by 30 September. This date was now indicated on 30 November, but this was also justified by the circumstances connected with the pace of work in the Sejm. As I pointed out, national cancer programmes, cancer plans, have been under way in Europe for many years. The European Commission recommends Member States of the European Union to develop strategic plans for the oncology area. Similar indications are also contained in the position of the European Parliament. Poland is today one of the few countries that have not implemented the strategy in this area. And these actions that we are planning here, this is to be not only such a thoughtful and deepened reflection on the diagnosis as regards solving the problems that are ahead of us today, but also an in-depth expert reflection on what actions are to be carried out, with a very clear already operationalisation through these annual timetables. Because you have to be aware that cancer is one of the biggest challenges facing the Polish healthcare system today. I am convinced that the Act on National Oncology Strategy will enable the development and implementation of this strategy. And that is why I am asking the High Senate to welcome this initiative of the President and to support the National Oncology Strategy Act. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u142	Thank you very much, Minister. Would Minister Sławomir Gadomski like to speak? No. Good. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute's query to the President's representative related to the item on the agenda. Would any of you like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Jackowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, a very valuable initiative. We know that more than 100,000 people a year in Poland unfortunately have a diagnosis of cancer. But did the design of this law take into account the trends in this area, and so above all, the increase in the number of diseases in particular groups in which these diseases... We know that there are situations that have a higher percentage of healing rates, there are types of diseases that have a lower degree. Is all this, in the opinion of the President, in this strategy going to be included? And is this strategy, as I understand it, once every five years, because that's what this bill says... But shouldn't she be monitored in some way? Because, well, the situation in this area is unfortunately very dynamic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u144	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u145	It is, of course, so that the content of the strategy will be based on this law. The Act creates a legal framework. And the team is supposed to be a professional team, such as, you know, multidisciplinary. Because we're talking about action from prevention to rehabilitation to palliative care. Very wide and comprehensive. As far as the reasons for the bill are concerned, we are directly referring to the problems that the senator was talking about. The discussion, which also points to the expertise of the senators, has also taken place earlier in the Sejm, where we have also recalled European and non-European experiences connected with lung cancer, whether with cervical cancer, indicating that the appropriate actions are now able to reduce or even rule out the incidence of certain types of cancers. And to answer the senator's question directly: of course, yes, we take these conditions into account. This is also the result of these voices concerning the broad understanding of the problem and the indication that it is a law which will allow for the adoption of a strategy, which will be a resolution of the Council of Ministers, and the resolution of the Council of Ministers will oblige entities in the field of government administration as different as the Minister of Sport, the Minister of Science and Higher Education, the Minister of National Education, the Minister of Health... So we're talking about a broad plan. The provision of the Act provides that the update will be no less frequently than once every 5 years, but, of course, more frequently if necessary. And it's supposed to be, like I said, this year's schedule. I could say that we probably all wouldn't want it to be just funds from the National Health Fund. But with some comprehensive reasoning, these measures, duly foreseen on the basis of already concrete indications in the strategy, will be implemented. This reflection on the cancel plan is a reflection, which also comes from earlier studies. For example, Polish Oncology Society also made such attempts. But today we don't have any document at such a high, official, government level. Because what else is the National Programme for the Control of Cancer Diseases? That's what the Minister said. As an intervention programme. And here we're talking about a certain complex concept. And tonight is that the Senate will give the green light... Because of the rule of art. The 11th law explicitly states that a team is being formed. So the direct effect that you will adopt this law will be that it will give this team the opportunity to act, to draw up a document that will go to the Council of Ministers via the Minister of Health, and to undertake specific work. We are aware of all the challenges here. I think what's in the explanatory statement... Solutions that already exist in practice in many countries have resulted in a reduction in morbidity and have given concrete results. We are talking about prevention programs, we are talking about making Poles aware that there are certain behaviours that translate into a greater risk of cancer. Analysis of the state of prevention and early detection, diagnosis, treatment of cancer, diagnosis of specific activities in all these spheres This will be included directly in the strategy. Those objectives shall be reflected in Article. 2. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u146	Thank you. You're asking Senator Tight.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u147	Minister, I would like you to say in a few words or in a few sentences what are the substantive reasons for the appeal from the National Council on Oncology, Professor Jassem, who, as we know, had a slightly different concept of strategy in oncology. As far as I know, he alleged that the strategy in question did not put enough effort into preventing the disease and suggested a greater concentration of resources. If I'm wrong, correct me. But I would ask, first of all, to present the main differences in substance between Professor Jassem's views and the assumptions that are adopted in the strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u148	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u149	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! Of course, there is not yet a National Oncology Strategy adopted on the basis of the Act on National Oncology Strategy, which means it is impossible to answer the senator's question. The senator asks about the difference between the document, which is an internal document of the Polish Oncology Society, prepared even during the time of the president of the professor, and the document to be created. There's no way to tell the difference here. This document is a document in the study. Mr. Professor. Jassem participated in the meeting of the Health Committee in the Sejm and we pointed out that absolutely the material that was the basis for his work is one of the materials that is to be taken into account in the work on the National Oncology Strategy. I can express myself in the field of activities which lie within the sphere of competence of the President of the Republic of Poland. I'm not gonna talk about activities that aren't related to the Presidential Office. I'm convinced that a bunch of outstanding experts... I was talking about a national oncology consultant, I was talking about the current president of the Polish Oncology Society, I was talking about the head of the oncology institute. Prof. Piotr Czauderna, coordinator of the National Development Council Health Protection Section, Dr. Konrad Dziobek, who also advises the President of the Republic of Poland and has a specialty in gynaecological oncology... There are also voices of the patient's environment. As part of the National Development Council, we are talking to representatives of the patient's environment. That voice sounded right here. They're all also Mr. Prof. Jassem admitted it. They are talking about this direction, they say that today is the right time for us to talk about the Polish cancel plan. As part of the activities that used to be undertaken by the Polish Society for Oncology, it was mentioned that it might be done on the basis of some announcement by the Minister of Health. We've gone far, I mean. We're talking about a document that goes beyond the field of activity of the Ministry of Health itself. Like I said, it would be a resolution of the Council of Ministers. I am convinced that it is necessary to give an opportunity to experts, patients, all interested. The point is that through the Polish parliament they should be given the legal opportunity to act, because there is really such an expectation of the environment. This law came from the authentic voice of the environment, and patients, and experts of oncologists who said: it is time that we could develop a Polish cancel plan and that the Polish cancel plan was not only an internal document of one entity, but was a government document. If we look at the bill today, I've been talking about this before. We'll see that in the article. 10 is an indication that among the representatives who will participate in these works will be a representative of the Polish Society of Oncology, Society of Clinical Oncology, Society of Hematologists and Transfusjologists, Society of Oncology and Paediatric Hematology, Society of Oncological Radiotherapy, Society of Oncology, Society of Polish Surgery, Society of Lung Diseases, Society of Cardio-Toracosurers, Society of Urology, Society of Oncological Gynaecology, Society of Pathologists and others. There will also be patients' representatives. We want this to be an in-depth reflection of the scientific community, as well as non-governmental organisations. It is the experts who will work on this document as part of the team that will be appointed to the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u150	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u151	Minister, perhaps this question should be addressed to Minister Gadomiski, but I understand from your statement that the dismissal of your Professor from the National Council for Foreign Affairs. Oncology has nothing to do with the National Oncology Strategy.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u152	None. [[And Professor Jass, in public, says it's probably connected. But okay. I understand that's your opinion. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u153	Thank you. You're asking Senator Wojtyla a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u154	I'd like to... Minister, this is a question. rather to the Minister, because a few years ago, probably three years ago, there was a discussion in the Senate also about oncology and then it was claimed that reporting to the National Register Cancer is very low. There was a representative of the Sejm at the time, Professor Pawłowski, and he confirmed it. I see that this strategy is talking about increasing the efficiency of the register, because this is the basis for any action. I'm in science, and I know we're collecting data, but this data is incomplete, unenforced. And I have a question for the Minister, what is the percentage of cancers registered in the National Cancer Register right now. Second question. A few years ago, a national institute of cancer was discussed, which would link the Institute of Hematology, the Institute of Oncology, branches in Gliwice, Cracow. Is this a topic that's being discussed or not right now? And now I have a question about the National Oncology Strategy. I've had some experience in managing health services since 1990, and I'm keeping it from being as fictional as the National Health Programme. The National Health Programme was established in 1990. There's been a lot of discussion about this. In 1992 a second version of the National Health Programme was created. There was a National Health Program team, and I was the head of this team twice. And he's just out of money. The National Health Program is fiction. He's only implemented at the level of... [[Mr. Senator, what a question.]] And the question is... I'm talking about the composition of this National Oncology Strategy Team. I see that there are only representatives of companies that are strictly involved. cancer treatment, and we are supposed to try to prevent cancer, so that there is health promotion and prevention, so that there is no cancer disease, not just early detection and treatment, as has been the case so far. Because I would also like to remind you that Minister Religa has put in place a programme to combat cancer. He relied on the fact that he was bought and very well Diagnosis and treatment equipment, prevention has been on the side.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u155	First, we will give the Minister a chance to answer questions, because there are other questions, and then we will ask Minister Gadomski to answer the first two questions of the senator. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u156	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The provision provides that the team shall be composed of It's an art. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The representatives of the Minister responsible for health, point 2 of the first paragraph, so it is absolutely possible for representatives of the Minister of Health to be among the representatives of various specialties, with different experiences, even appointed under certain arrangements, with knowledge of whether it is education or the problems that the team will deal with. This is the responsibility of the Minister of Health. And it seems to be a very rational solution. The Minister will have the opportunity to appoint representatives of various specialties or have different special messages. In addition, the provision of the article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The 6th Act provides that non-members invited by the chairman of the team may participate in the work of the team. And it can be absolutely so that, in the course of the work on the various segments of the strategy, experts will be invited to take some of the activities to be undertaken, or experts will be directly involved in them, who will refer to the area or the problem concerned. So I am pointing out that the law is formulated in a flexible way, which allows such multidisciplinary process to be carried out as part of the strategy itself.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u157	You're asking Senator Jackowski a question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u158	Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. Minister, I have this question: in the course of the work on this bill and the consultation that you conducted with both government representatives and scientific associations and the medical and scientific environment, has the situation been examined that maybe this national strategy... During its development, there may have been such a conclusion that more resources are needed to finance an effective national programme in this area. Was this the option envisaged? And what happens when this advice... As part of this national strategy... Because it will require legislative action, changing or modifying the way health care is financed in Poland. Were such discussions conducted or not carried out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u159	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u160	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Article 4 is replaced by the following: 5 (1) of the Act expressly states that the strategy is implemented on the basis of a timetable for the implementation of the strategy, taking into account in particular the implementation costs and sources of funding for the actions set out in the strategy, covering the calendar year period. The draft timetable for the implementation of the strategy for the following calendar year, drawn up by the Panel, shall be presented annually by the Minister responsible for Health to the Council of Ministers no later than 30 September. So here we're dealing with exactly what the senator was talking about, with such a very powerful operation. Because it is not that the strategy, which will cover a decade, is to be a document that is a certain abstraction and, as indicated in previous speeches, does not refer to specific actions. Conversely: the timetable for the implementation of the strategy, as is apparent directly from the Act, will have to include the costs of implementation and the sources of funding of the actions set out in the Strategy, i.e. the Minister will have the obligation to say: such and such measures we attach to the implementation of the National Oncology Strategy, or we propose for the implementation of the National Oncology Strategy, and these costs are due to such and such reasons. The sources of funding for individual actions will also need to be identified. We want to go beyond the reasoning of the Ministry of Health only, but we will refer to the whole strategy, which involves spheres that go beyond the proper area, within the framework of the understanding of the law on government departments, for the Minister for Health. So this is absolutely concrete, this is how it's supposed to be done. Anyway, this annual cycle about the schedule... It is also very important that, while monitoring progress in the implementation of the strategy, we can say this: we focus on a specific sphere, whether it is prevention or action to combat a particular type of cancer, or, while we are aware of the effectiveness of the actions already undertaken inconcreto, we can react flexibly on the basis of the strategy. That's how it's thought, that's how it's supposed to be done, and that's a certain novel. This is currently not the case, there is no resolution of the Council of Ministers, nor annual timetables, nor such a comprehensive reasoning. Hence the great hopes that we already have in mind not only the preparation but also the practical implementation of the strategy and its implementation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u161	You're asking Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u162	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Procedural issues. Art. 11: The National Oncological Strategy Team is being formed. Okay, but there's no time limit for the Minister of Health to appoint members of this team. There is only one deadline, 14 days, for patients' organisations to make proposals about members, but there are no other deadlines. Don't you think that the Minister of Health should, in a sense, be required to set up this team within a certain period of time? Especially since there is a deadline for the first project, both on strategy and timetable, and this is 30 November this year. It's a short term.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u163	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u164	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In accordance with the principles of legislative technique, regardless of the content of the article. In Article 10, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 11 indicated, as the senator correctly quoted, that a team was formed. And this term right here... On the one hand, the Act will enter into force 14 days after the date of its announcement, as the Senator has rightly pointed out, and on the other hand it is also subject to this ambitious deadline, according to which, no later than 30 November 2019, the Minister responsible for Health will present to the Council of Ministers a draft strategy together with a draft timetable. So it is clear that the Minister of Health, having the power of law imposed such an obligation to present by the Council of Ministers a draft strategy with a draft timetable for its implementation by 30 November, will have to undertake It will be in his most legitimate interest, it will come directly from the Act. Such actions, in order to establish this team as efficiently as possible. But I wouldn't be afraid here either, because the Ministry of Health has been involved in this work since the beginning, the experts are ready and this human team, you might say, today is ready. We just want to ask the High Senate to give us this opportunity by adopting this bill, because it is also that the project was aimed at the Parliament's work and, as a result of various decisions of the Sejm, it has been a while since this project was sent, and I am getting even the opposite signals today: why is there no law yet, since we are ready? Yes, we're prepared, we have experts. Besides, in an oncology environment, this case is well known, the project was publicly presented by your president, in the presence of specialists, so I don't see the risk, I wouldn't be afraid here. But, of course, I am pleased that at this Senate meeting we already have the opportunity to discuss this law, and I am convinced that immediately after the entry into force of the law, the Minister of Health will take appropriate action.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u165	Are there any more questions for the Minister? No one's checking in. Thank you, Minister. [[Deputy Head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Paweł Mucha: Thank you, Mr Marshal.]] Now I ask Minister Sławomir Gadomski to answer Senator Wojtyla's two questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u166	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! About those two or even three questions of Senator Wojtyla... KRN is indeed a basis and basis, for example, to assess our progress De facto, it is a basis that should form the basis for the construction and updating of the National Oncology Strategy. This percentage of data in the National Register Cancer is satisfying today. According to recent data, KRN is almost 95% Covering, it's a level that's kind of showing... In the case of a population register, this level is quite high. KRN has other problems today, today the problem of the National Cancer Register is primarily the lack of a link with the National Health Fund data, the GUS database or, for example, the Social Insurance Institution database. Although work has started in this area, the Centre for Oncology has applied for EU funding from the Operational Programme (the "Digital Poland") is about extending the National Register of Cancers and integrating with these data. At the same time, work is underway on start-up within the National Cancer Register, within organ tumours, within individual organ groups, clinical records that will ensure even higher data levels and even higher quality in these organ ranges. The second question concerned the National Cancer Institute and its connection to Gliwice, with the Institute of Hematology. Work related... Maybe I'll start by saying that today the Center for Oncology, or this institute, is already connected to Gliwice and Krakow. Gliwice and Cracow, centers of oncology, are branches of the institute The institute consists of 3 locations. There are no plans today to connect the Oncology Center with the Institute of Hematology, although actually recently If I remember correctly, in February of this year The Minister of Health appointed a team to deal with the transformation of the Oncology Centre into a national oncology institute. And it should be pointed out today that the main task which the National Institute of Oncology, the Centre of Oncology, would no longer serve as a research and science institute under the Ministry of Health, but as a state research institute In other words, there would be a change in the formula of the Institute, such as coordination and monitoring of activities related to the National Oncology Strategy. So, de facto, the institute would be, you can say, the right hand of the Minister of Health in monitoring and coordinating the implementation of the National Oncology Strategy. I would also like, Mr Marshal, to address the words of Senator Czerwiński and to confirm absolutely what Minister Mucha said about our readiness. I think that as soon as you sign the bill, we will actually appoint representatives of the Ministry of Health. As a rule, we have their chosen ones, and they know it. At the Ministry of Health there were even workshops at which we were pleased to host representatives of the Cancer Institute from Australia, who told us about their experience in creating the cancel plan that was in force there. They're much more advanced. There are already four iterations of such a plan, so experience has really rich. I hope our team will benefit from this, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u167	Senator Jackowski is asking another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u168	Thank you very much. Minister, I have this question: are there already statistical materials in the health department showing statistics across the country in terms of individual groups and degrees of curability in particular groups, any expertise? Well, it's about this kind of material. He would be able to help this team, who will develop this national strategy, at once on good morning, to prepare an accurate diagnosis and remedies. And that's my first question. And my second question. Perhaps the Minister would like to zoom in on some statistics and tell us what the recognition of oncology is like here. I'm not talking about precise data here, but more or less what was the trend. Is she growing, or is she stable? And another question. Which groups of oncology diseases are, unfortunately, burdened with high mortality? I'm just gonna say it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u169	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u170	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Today we seem to have a great deal of materials that really need to be consolidated as part of the work on the National Oncology Strategy. I'd like to point out two sources. First of all, these are data from the National Cancer Register, data that talk about the incidence of individual types of cancer in individual regions; in fact, we can go down to the level of centres. This is one base. The second base is a base of the National Health Fund, which is a valuable source of information, de facto after linking and after some analysis, after comparing with data from KRN. But it's not just these materials, it's actually some analytical materials. It is worth mentioning that last year, exactly 8 March 2018, the Minister of Health appointed a team on the development of organisational changes in the field of oncology. The team finalised its work on the material concerning the National Oncology Network, the need for its establishment. And already at that stage, at the stage of the team's work, many analyses and comparisons were carried out, for example, to the best practices in Europe and in the world. It is also worth pointing out the role of the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technologies and Tarification, which in many changes, for example recent changes in the basket of guaranteed benefits, changes related to e.g. with the implementation of comprehensive oncology services, breast cancel unit, lung cancel unit or subsequent organ centers, it has a huge comparative base referring precisely to world and European standards. Therefore, also in the composition of the team a representative of the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technology and Tarification. As to the second question, I'm going to say that this disease is getting worse. We're talking 160,000 new cases registered each year. This is 2016 data, so today we're probably talking about more. Experts estimate that in 2024 we will be talking about as many as 200 thousand diseases. This growth is very dynamic. I don't mean to be a liar, but I think it was 110, 120 grand in 2010. This shows that this increase in morbidity is actually increasing. This is also an increase in recognition and, for a good cause, an increase in awareness. Today we know that it is a cancer and we can recognize it earlier. It is worth pointing out that probably this year, maybe next year, we will cross the limit of 1 million people who live with cancer in Poland. It is also a huge challenge facing experts, before the National Oncology Strategy itself, and it is about covering the demand for... Cancer becomes a chronic disease, the life span with cancer is significantly prolonged. It seems that what Minister Mucha was talking about and how the work at the Ministry of Health is being carried out today indicates that patients need comprehensive care. Thus the complexity of this strategy: from primary prevention through secondary prevention, diagnostics, therapeutic processes, and finally oncology rehabilitation and palliative care, maybe even long-term care, such after illness, already at an earlier stage. My expectation is that this should be reflected in the National Oncology Strategy. [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u171	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u172	I asked the question, which types unfortunately cause the highest mortality. Which types of oncology?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u173	Forgive me for not saying... One can say that the biggest challenge today, especially in the case of men, also happens in women. Of course, there is lung cancer, and in the case of women breast cancer.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u174	Are there any further questions for the Minister? Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u175	Minister, I'd like to... You say it's 98%. Reporting... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Sławomir Gadomski: 94%.]] How much? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Sławomir Gadomski: 94%.]] I don't think so. In 2015, Professor Jodkowska wrote an article in which she said that less than 80%. In 2017 we discussed this Mr. Minister was, too. And it was said that 30%. And now it's up to 90 percent?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u176	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u177	These are the data he has at his disposal... [[It's a good thing it's up. I just want to make sure.]] No, no, that growth wasn't that dynamic and we've never had it at 30%. I think that's 30%. and some problems with this may be related to the linking of data from the National Cancer Register with the data from the tumor report card that entered after the oncology package. We can talk here about some sort of disregard, that is to say, the imperviousness to the KRN of DiLO cards. This is implemented by the staff of people who are employed at KRN just for the purpose of verifying and supplementing these data. So that today I have information Of course, Mr. Senator, I can still confirm it. Which, moreover, is probably also included in the public newsletter of the National Cancer Register, that this percentage is around 94%.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u178	More questions? There isn't. Minister, thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Sławomir Gadomski: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. Senator Dorota Czudowska will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u179	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! Gentlemen of Ministers! Personal reflection: well, it's worth working retired in oncology to look forward to a good bill. I treat this bill... There is now such a fashionable term for road map. And this bill, I'm sure of it. 'Cause it's not even that I hope It will be a road map covering all problems related to oncology, oncology, oncology and oncology. This does not mean that in Poland this problem is unsolved or not noticeable, has not been solved. There it is. We have excellent oncology centers in Poland, excellent organ clinics. Many countries, even Western countries, began to follow the organization of the oncology institute in Warsaw and the organization of these organ clinics. But there was also this thread of discussion in the committee, Minister Gadomski well stated that this law is not an intervention act, because those that were, very important so far, and which function, have brought much good, such as the national programme to fight cancer, cancer, which exists and is implemented by the government, such as the National Oncology Network or this famous chart of diagnosis and oncology treatment, determining... A patient who has a card like this in his hand is treated as a priority. It's all there, it's all working. But so far there has been no single law that covers everything. And, for example, the first objective of the strategy: to reduce the incidence of cancer by health education, to promote health and prevention, including health awareness and to promote healthy lifestyles. In the subsequent provisions of the Act, it is underlined that the strategy includes certain priorities, which will be a kind of special rank in the implementation of the Act. I hope that prevention will be a priority. There are records that we are interested in mastering and preventing the so-called. primary, namely the promotion of health prevention, health education and prevention of so-called. secondary, i.e. screening preventive tests. This role of prevention, especially primary, is the formation of health awareness, is crucial here. In all the lectures I have Maybe the lectures are too much, they're lectures, talks, I don't really call it lectures. I present this diagram by Lalonde, Canadian Minister of Health from the 1970s, who presented this diagram... I don't like to use a computer in the room, but it's to prove that I'm not literal. There is a diagram by Lalonde, which has been in operation for over 40 years and has not actually lost its validity and validity, and it divides the factors that affect our health. And yes, 53% our health depends on ourselves, i.e. on our lifestyle, 21% are environmental factors, 16% are genetics, and only 10% are genetics. It is an organization and expenditure on health protection. There may be some shifts in some countries, but this diagram is still valid. This problem cannot be dealt with by the Ministry of Health and the creators themselves, experts working on this law know it well. That's why in this bill... Minister Mucha talked about it, but once again I would like to stress the importance of the article. 4 of this law:. The strategy is adopted before the Council of Ministers by a resolution. Here as a doctor, as an oncologist interested in these matters and issues for over 30 years, I would say that I am pleased that the Minister of Health will not be alone in implementing this law. At the committee meeting I mentioned this, also with the High Senate I will share some reflection and memory from my participation in the Economic Forum in Krynica last September. There was a big session devoted to health care and my great hope and joy that although Minister Szumowski was inside It was the right place for him to sit next to him all ministers who may have an impact on Polish health care, including of course oncology. So it was also the Minister of Finance, and the Minister of Digitization, and the Minister of Development... This debate was lacking in the Minister of Physical Education, which someone in the audience pointed out, saying that he should also be there. But he was the Minister of Education. 'Cause cheers... Well, the minister can only follow the guidelines and what is consistent with medical knowledge. And this is also important that according to the Act the strategy will be developed not on the basis of any reports pseudo-scientific or even scientific, but different alternative medicine of one kind or another, but only based on medical knowledge, as Senator Radziwiłł emphasized in the discussion. The funding will, of course, be necessary, but I, as an oncology practitioner, must say that I have so far missed such a holistic approach. Let me give you an example so that the senators can understand my thinking. I participate in many oncology conferences and observe that a number of topics presented at these conferences Oncology seems to have lost its original character, as it was broadcast 20 years ago. Now there are actually no more topics than topics sponsored by pharmaceutical companies. Of course, it's legal, and it's also said that a given lecture is sponsored by one or another company, so we're dealing with drugs. Well, we're dealing with very important things, treatment, a combination of new drugs, and that's what we need to talk about. But there are absolutely no topics related to prevention or diagnostics. Who's going to tell young doctors if we don't talk about it and we're not going to implement or create programs that are going to be implemented by POZ doctors, by occupational medicine doctors? She stressed the importance of this problem, Senator Orzechowska. Is there gonna be any extra money here, big money? I'm sure it is, but I think that a greater role in this strategy will be played in this plan by the fact that there may be a proper allocation of these funds. Today we know that 1 PLN spent on prevention means saving 3 PLN for subsequent treatment. So all of this can be organised more efficiently and better, even within the resources already in place. The proof of this is, for example. in this case we call them from the English breast unit. It's just that maybe... It's a thread that you've moved Senator Wcisla. I don't mean personal... But I followed, as a member of the Polish Oncology Society... I was invited to conferences during which the white and green book of oncology was presented. And these were great conferences, organized in prestigious places of Warsaw. I remember such a conference from 2011, I remember one from 2014. Mr. Senator, there was no interest in the Minister of Health at the time. It wasn't. It just wasn't. [[Time.]] Time? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u180	Thank you, Senator. Senator Radziwiłł will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u181	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There is indeed an increasing problem with cancers. We have more than 150,000 new diseases in Poland every year, as they have already died here. One might ask the question: why is it so? Mr Gadomski rightly pointed out here that the recognition of certain oncology diseases is better, but of course that is not the answer. The answer is that in some sense we are victims of our success. We live longer and longer, and as we grow older, many people are at increased risk of developing cancer. If all men in Poland lived to be 100 years old, 100% We'd have prostate cancer. This is the epidemiology of this disease. That obviously doesn't mean everyone would die because of it, but it just shows what the trend is. Thus, the success of extending the life of Poles inevitably generates a situation in which we have more and more cancer patients. So something has to be done about it. As noted, these people are already around 1 million and there will be more, so the need for such measures to take care of them as best as possible, but above all to the extent possible, will reduce the incidence of cancer, at least at an earlier age. A lot can be done, as we know, so that at least some cancers don't get sick. Therefore, I am very pleased that we are debating a law that has the opportunity to create something like a solution proposed by the World Health Organization under the motto "Health" in this case oncology "oncology" in all policies. The fact is that undoubtedly a large part of this strategy, which will arise, will be what the Minister of Health has been doing so far, namely early detection programs for cancer diseases, programmes for proper diagnosis, treatment, rehabilitation, care for patients of palliative care, hospice care, because this is also part of a widely understood oncology. And it's about the kind of system in which all of this is going to take place, which is on the one hand going to be a national oncology network, which, today, can be said to be piloted, but on the other hand, it's also about putting basic health care, specialized care, the role of primary hospitals... etc., etc. And that is, you can say, something that will definitely be a major part of this strategy. However, the strategy for fighting cancer must also rely on doing everything possible, from the perspective or from the state's position, so that cancers are as low as possible, or at least that they happen as at the latest. This is, you can say, in my opinion, the essence and added value of this document that is to be created. It is intended to be a document of the Council of Ministers, and thus a document which is likely to involve the Minister of Sport, the Minister of Education, the Minister of Labour and several other ministers. But above all, he must involve the Minister of Finance in this I have no doubt. And here I'm not talking about financing oncology to a greater extent. This is, of course, a need that must certainly also be recognised, but above all it is about funding for what can be done to prevent cancer. So on the one hand This is the financing of opportunities for various health-promoting activities, such as greater physical activity, school-health education and, on the other hand, In my opinion, most of all These are various fiscal, tax solutions that are geared towards reducing the consumption of what is unhealthy, i.e. unhealthy food, alcohol and in particular, in the first place and with a great exclamation point, tobacco. This is the main, primary, most important risk factor for cancer. I hope that the result of this strategy will be a real, real anti-tobacco policy, which we still do not have in Poland. I think we're getting better at this, but there's still a lot to do. So that is, in my opinion, one of the things that should be hoped for. This strategy will ensure that they are implemented. Ladies and gentlemen, you can finally say this: we are at such a strange moment, we are in the middle of a campaign, and she has rights. We hear about some fantasies, about PLN 100 billion from the European Union, which are to power the Polish health system, and in addition there is some oncology in all of this, but those who are involved, among others. candidates for the European Parliament, e.g. Minister Kopacz... The Minister, when asked about the details of this European oncology solution, says that he does not know, because it is not yet known, because some experts will still think about it. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we're doing something specific here. This means, to be clear, by the way, Poland participates in various European projects, among others. in the so-called. European reference networks in the field of so-called rare diseases, including rare cancers. This is happening, we are developing this and here there is no question of Poland's departure or isolation in terms of the possibility of using the added value... the opportunities offered by the European Union. Many different projects, both investment and scientific and other, are also funded by European funds in the field of oncology. However, we need to focus primarily on what is possible in Poland. There is no doubt that the overwhelming majority of patients will always be treated near the house where they live. They will not go to other countries of the European Union, but they will treat themselves here. That is why it is so important that such a strategy is created for Poland, and it is right now, you can say, that it has a chance to start. So I'm very happy for you. However, in order not to be so pink, I would like to say that this law is very important, but even more important is what will arise until 30 November, that is, this strategy. I think that among those who will be appointed as representatives of the Minister of Health I agree with Minister Mucha here that this is possible in this model There will be people outside of the medical environment. Well, in my opinion, there is no doubt that it is. economists, sociologists, other people who are involved in social policy, tax policy, fiscal policy, etc., because... well, public health is not just about treatment, as Minister Wojtyla noted. However, even more important than this strategy will be to implement it, there is no doubt about it. I hope that, regardless of who will be in charge in the coming years, regardless of the long-term policy, the Minister of Health responsible for the organisation of oncology care will have the support of all other ministers, and in the first place, I emphasise once again, the support of the Minister of Finance, who will support all these measures, which will at least partially reduce the rate of cancer growth, because this is possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u182	Thank you. You have a voice, Senator Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u183	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Yes, weird things happen in this Senate, but I don't think there's much of a situation where I'm going to praise the document more than the esteemed Senators of the ruling party. Well, this document is maybe a list of good ideas, a list of good projects, a list of good wishes, there's no doubt about it. However, as Minister Wojtyla said here in his questions, this document will become one of the many documents that are mending in the Ministry's drawers if we do not give him a financial framework. I would like to remind you that the greatest changes in the face of Polish oncology occurred as a result of the parliamentary law on the National Programme for the Control of Cancer Diseases, whose spiritual father was a dead person. Minister Religa, but a contractor and creator Senator Wojtyła. And that's what you have to remember. At the moment, the second term of this program goes. That's why he was great, despite all his shortcomings, that year after year 300 billion PLN was spent on the state budget. If that's what... [[Millions.]] Millions, I'm so sorry. These 300 million have changed the face of Polish oncology. Times were different, but I remember that 15 years ago it took about that long. There was nothing. Torakosurgery used strings and basic clamps. Now we've got videosurgery devices and we've got intrabronchial ultrasound. Radiotherapy only had cobalt bombs, and accelerators were rare. I am not talking about other modern forms of therapy because of the time of the honourable states. That was the time, we had almost nothing. After 15 years of running the program, we are on a completely different level, at least in terms of apparatus. Now comes the time for action in other areas: epidemiology, early detection, rehabilitation, prevention of first and second degree, secondary and primary. But I repeat: without the money in the budget that must be in next year, Mr. Gadomski, I appeal to you from this tribune. The minimum in the case of the National Programme for the Control of Cancer Diseases, without this money, a procedated bill, full of good, noble intentions, will remain only in the sphere of these intentions. I would also like to appeal to... People are confusing the oncology network project, which piloting is going on right now, and about which I've had and I have a negative opinion... Including pilotage We've got that data now. The largest hospital in Wroclaw did not report any patient. [[Exactly.]] This is a completely separate issue. The National Oncology Strategy is something else, it is a record of a good direction in which we should go. As Minister Mucha emphasized, this is a kind of road map, these are the directions we should take. Therefore, I ask that, if the Ministry appoints representatives of a fairly broad body, also remember those who have a critical or different opinion than the ministry, because if we take a number of taverns, nothing wise will come out of it. I believe that the President's firm will have an impact on the establishment of this body. The point is, this is the best body our nation can put up. This must be the best team. And that is what I appeal to you and to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u184	Thank you, Senator. You have the voice of Senator Wojtyla.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u185	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Thank you very much, Professor Grodzko, for reminding me here and at the committee meeting... I even forgot that I was presenting this program here. I had a program to fight cancer, which was my idea and prof. Religion, some comments. I thought you had to give more money to prevent, promote health. The professor said to me, "Let's give it to the equipment." I know what this equipment looks like. For now, we have a more important task to treat people. Then we'll start dealing with promotion, prevention. And this is the second stage we've been thinking about. I am very glad that what was then in thought, i.e. to increase the comfort of treating patients, is noticed, because we expected that due to the increase in life expectancy, this is the first factor, and the insertion of diagnostic equipment, this is the second factor, will be a greater detection of cancer. Of course, this will result in spending more money on cancer treatment, as well as increasing the number of cancers, because we'll just be detecting more. When we look at it, for example. on the diagnosis in the death certificate, we'll see that there's a decrease in the number of diagnosiss: death for an unclear reason. There used to be a lot of that, and now it's known to be cancer. The increase in the number of cancers we are suffering from is also based on the fact that we are better at detecting these cancers. An example is colon, colon and colon cancer, which is difficult to detect, but because we're screening, we're detecting more of these diseases, we're treating more of them. Unfortunately, sometimes we detect too late and this is a drawback of the functioning of our health system and our society. Rarely in the world, the country offers e.g. free screening for breast, cervix, colon detection. In the U.S., no one... If someone gets a good insurance policy, it's funded. And we call on women. And what's the reporting? Yeah, in the case of cervical cancer right now, it's less than 30%. There was more, but now because regional centres have been liquidated, this indicator has fallen for women. Well, you have to do something to get women to apply for these tests. We created in the county hospital in Pleszewo such a cancel unit of prevention, diagnosis and detection of cancer generally. We acted through the parish priests with the Bishop's permission and reporting increased by 100%. As I say, only through promotional action in churches. This was particularly true of cervical cancer and breast cancer, especially cervical cancer. So that right now we have to do this... We offer these women free diagnostics, but they have to come. And that is also the task of this programme, which the Minister spoke of. The point is to use what we offer to society for free, but it requires a change of consciousness, it doesn't just depend on whether we spend money. The length of life extends, the cancer is an old person's disease, so the longer we live, the more cancers will be. Last year I attended a lecture by the director of the National Institute in Moscow, in Russia and he showed very interesting statistics. In Russia, cancer is falling, but the average life expectancy has also decreased there in recent years. So it's not surprising that the disease has fallen because cancer is a disease of older age. We're talking cancer. The causes of cancer are many, this is a multifactorial cause. I have these lectures for students and I show you that. Men in Japan And the Japanese, when it comes to smoking rates, have the world's tallest living for the longest time. Why? Probably because their diet endures the harmful effects of tobacco. I'm comparing Brazil and Russia. In Brazil and Russia, you eat the same amount of animal fats, yes, the same amount, and in Russia three times as many people suffer from cancer as in Brazil. Perhaps it is the yerba mate that endures their harmful effects. It is said that obesity causes more cancers, because there are more cells, some cells multiply, the others apoptosis, and the older the man, the more control over apoptosis and cell division is weaker, so there is a greater risk of cancer. But it's not, because it's not. Atlantic whales weighing more than 30 t have no cancer at all. Elephants don't have cancer either, if they have more cells. So we can't say that the cause... [[But they don't drink and they don't smoke.]] No, there's another reason. It's because they're... [[They only feed on fish.]] They adapt more slowly to the surrounding environment. They live in cold water all the time near Antarctica. And that's why... The Minister was talking about prostate cancer. Of course, the number of his speeches is increasing because men are getting older, they live longer... But, ladies and gentlemen, let's not make the same mistake Americans made in the 1990s. Well, they had every male who had an elevated PSA subject to surgery, so that the Americans made more than 4 million men invalids. And by the time prostate cancer becomes life-threatening cancer, it's 40 years old. So if someone's 60 years old and shows cancer, then you know... [[He's gonna make it to 100.]] The average life expectancy of a man is not 100 years. So that in such cases you have to control, not intervene immediately... [[Don't cut it right out.]] ...or cut. There's one more thing I'd like to say. We are talking about the fact that Poland has no achievements. And I was in Denver two years ago at the American public health convention, there were 18,000 scientists there, and, ladies and gentlemen, there was talk of our success in combating smoking. There was talk of a hero, which is Professor Zatonski. So it's not like we don't have accomplishments. What has been done in Poland for about eighty years in terms of tobacco and the associated incidence of lung cancer is one of the greatest achievements in the world. And that's what we should remember. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u186	Thank you, Senator. The list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Law on Health Care for Students. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1149 and the report of the Commission In print No 1149 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on Health, Senator Andrzej Wojtyla, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u187	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would like to present a report from the 2nd Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on Health With work on the Government Law on health care for students. I would like to briefly state what this bill is all about. It is a law that has several objectives. The first objective is to ensure equal access to school health care, regardless of the place of residence of the student and the type of school. The second objective is to increase the efficiency of public-funded health services under this care. Other objectives are to enable real cooperation with parents, in accordance with the Education Act, to ensure monitoring of the health care of pupils by identifying those who carry out these tasks and to periodically assess the implementation of the health care of pupils. Act in Art. 2 indicates that health care covers health and dental care during the period of fulfilling the school obligation, i.e. up to the age of nineteen, and as regards special education, to the completion of secondary education. According to this law, students are cared for by a school nurse, here called a nurse of the teaching and upbringing environment, a school hygienist and a dentist. The law also indicates who provides this care for students The school principal and the school authority are discussed here. The place where the benefits are provided is, in the case of a nurse or a hygienist, the clinic for preventive care, and in the case of dental services, the dental office at school or And it's gonna be mostly that way. Out of school or a dentobus, which we have 16. The Act also states that these benefits must be implemented in accordance with the Patient Rights Act. The scope of benefits does not change, it is defined by the Law of 2004 on public-funded healthcare provision. And now, in addition, a nurse who's so-called. A school nurse has an obligation to integrate student care. The scope of dental services is also identical to the Public-funded Health Services Act. Health education and promotion are agreed with the school principal. The head of the school shall be responsible for the organisation and the conditions shall be provided by the host body to ensure that the organisation is able to do so. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 23 are also talking about monitoring student care. There's been a rather turbulent discussion. The senators asked about the competition of those who could take care of their students at school. Doubts were raised by the provisions of the article. 5 which determine who can act as an environmental nurse, a teaching environment and education. The bill says it could be a master's degree in nursing, a nurse with appropriate specialization, i.e. a nurse of the teaching and upbringing environment, or with a completed course in this field or a midwife after a qualification course and with a 5-year internship. Of course, it can also be a school hygienist with a secondary education in this area and a 5-year internship. Senator Grodzki had doubts about whether we would have such a number of nurses, especially in the face of the shortage of these nurses. The Minister replied that such estimates had been made and there are no such threats here that there will be no nurses. The senators also had doubts about the waiting queue for dental services and said that if children were to have priority, it would be difficult to implement. It is up to the school dentist to organize the work so that it can be accomplished. In the discussion it was also argued that such a model of operation was already in force until 1999, for the implementation of the law on sickness registers. The questions also concerned health balance sheets. During the discussion, the Minister assured us that nothing was changing here. These are medical preventive tests, they are still in the same form and are done at the same periods as before. These tasks belong to the POZ and this Act does not contain any changes in this respect. After the discussion, the committee recommends that the law be adopted without amendment. The vote on this law was unanimous. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u188	Thank you, Senator. Senators can now ask questions... [[It wasn't unanimous. I was against it.]] [[Not unanimously, but unanimously.]] ...for you... [[Then I'm sorry. I thought you voted in favour.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] The case has been cleared up. [[By the way, I saw you vote in favour.]] [[Behind the cancer strategy.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] At present, the senators may submit questions to the rapporteur's senator. [[And Blackbeard held back.]] Are there any such questions? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator... [[I have a question.]] Yes? Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u189	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, remind me what it's like to take care of students at school from a formal point right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u190	That is, the health care of students at school is organised as it has been organised since 1999, i.e. this care of pupils is provided by a primary healthcare doctor. Since everyone can choose the kind of healthcare doctor they think they are, at a given school, those family doctors to whom they are enrolled can be 20 and 30, depending on the type of school. I'd like to say that the chief control room... [[It's the highest.]] ...that the Supreme Audit Chamber in 2006 in 2018... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...also in 2016 and 2008 has negatively assessed the organisation of preventive childcare. I was the deputy minister of religion and in 2006 a team was formed. health care for students. He met several times in 2007, but our successors no longer took up the issue and did not continue the work. In 2007, the chief health inspector carried out a check and at that time nurse care was provided at 75.5% schools, of which only 47% of schools had preventive health care offices, only 40% in primary schools. Now the law makes this care for children and young people in schools coordinated and we can talk about true care, not so that... Well, what the Supreme Board of Control wrote in its reports, that's true, because in 2016 the defects of the spine had 219 thousand pupils, allergies and asthma So that this care for the mother and the child hasn't been right so far. There was a gap here since 1999, because school hygiene was until 1999, when we had health care teams, implemented by family doctors to which the schools were subject. And as every patient had the right to sign up for another family doctor, it blew up, and it didn't actually work. This is a law that restores this health care at school in the field of prevention.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u191	Are there any more questions? Mr. Senator Klein. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u192	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I would like to ask how this will be done in practice. The point is that the children of the village actually have the same access to this medical care, such as children. in Warsaw. Because that's the goal that's written here: they're supposed to have equal access. So how's this gonna work in practice? How will it work for this kid in Smoldzin, somewhere in Pomerania, to say that he has the same care as a kid in Warsaw?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u193	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u194	Senator, I do not agree here, because I know exactly the network of health centres in the countryside and I know that such networks of health centres as we have in Poland are almost nowhere in the world. After all, the distance to health centres in the village is no more than 20 km. And there's no... I look at health care in a large city, such as Warsaw, and health care in the Pleszew district. There access to healthcare is better, because there is every family doctor, every pediatrician knows every child by name and this health care is really better, and what we tell... We model on countries like the United States, where the distance from the doctor is 100, 120 km or... [[Or miles.]] Or miles. So that I know this data exactly, and so far the network of health centres in the countryside is exemplary, and there are no distances that would pose any problem in the development of communication.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u195	More questions? Mr. Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u196	Mr. Senator, I didn't actually put it as a charge, I was just saying how it was done in practice. 'Cause I'm gonna... I live in the province... [[And you have access?]] [[But he's not a student.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] I'm gonna... I'm not complaining. [[Exactly.]] It's really good in my town, it works very well, but... if we laugh about it, I don't know if... [[Voice from the room: No, no...]] It's not about laughing, is it? Only in some way do these people need... Contrary to appearances in rural areas... Of course, there are areas where it even works perfectly and little would have to be changed, but there are places, big areas where in practice access to the family doctor is very difficult and these people unfortunately choose doctors somewhere further away in the big city, because they have this feeling, the belief that this care is better organized. And if we laughed at it, it would just mean there's nothing to do at all, Senator. Right? I, too, believe that this health service is as good as it is, but we are adopting a law on equal access, which means I understand that this equal access right now does not have to be done to make this equal access. However, it is clear that this exclusion of rural areas in this case is, apart from certain municipalities. There are, for example. Sierakowice in the Pomorskie voivodship, where it is perfectly organized, because there the commune strongly engaged in these matters. But in other places it doesn't work so perfectly. Some friends laugh about it and say it's better in the country than in the city. Well, maybe they do, but I think that in a large area of Poland there is a significant imbalance in these matters. And even if we speak, as Senator Radziwiłł said, in the United States, 120 km... Okay, let's make it 120 kilometers... [[Voices from the hall: Mil.]] ...but if it's gonna be less, then everyone else is gonna be equal to this better standard. Maybe even better than in America, as the senator said here. How will this be organized in practice? How will this work so that there is real balance in this matter? So what are they gonna do, for example? municipalities or government administration, so that it can be said: yes, it is the same, children in Smoldzin, as I said, in Główczyce, or in Cecenów, do they have such access to a doctor as in Gdańsk, Słupsk, Lębork or Warsaw?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u197	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u198	Mr. Senator, I'll answer. I've already said that that's why this health care will be conducted in every school in the prevention office, i.e. the so-called. School office. Just like it used to be, until 1999. There'll be either an environmental nurse. Nurse of the education and teaching environment, former school nurse Or, as I said here, a school hygienist, as usual. And she's gonna be responsible for this... And the director is responsible for organizing this care. In 2016, we adopted a law that equipped the school with... [[In 2017, the Council ……]] In 2017, did she equip... give money to local governments. 100% She's covered the fitting of preventative offices in schools, and these offices are functioning. Except it wasn't organized. At the moment there will be either a nurse or a school hygienist and she will organize it and cooperate with a POZ doctor and, above all, with a dental office. A director like that has to sign... If there is a dental office in the school, it is, of course, functioning, and if not, then the director is required to sign such an agreement with an outside office, it may be a private office that will provide such services. And in this office, these children will have to be admitted first. At the committee meeting, there was a discussion about what might cause this. I used to work in a system like this, and I know it was like a dentist. One day until noon, he would only take children. It depends on the organisation of this health care. And that's practically how it's going to work, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u199	Is there another question? Mr. Senator Klein. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u200	I'm sorry that I did... because it's possible... that this case has been brought up. God forbid, I wish it were like the senator says, of course it would be fun if it worked like this. And the kids will be happy, the parents, and we'll all have the satisfaction of it. But I'm sure that's what we were talking about. What will be the cost of implementing this law?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u201	I don't remember... Minister Radziwiłł? This will be financed in accordance with the 2004 Act on... [[NFZ.]] ...health benefits financed by public funds, i.e. the NFZ. [[But what's the cost of this operation? How much will it cost on a Polish scale to make all this work?]] Mr. Senator, there was no discussion at the committee meeting about this. [[Then why don't you tell the minister?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u202	Are there any further questions? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Health has been authorised to present the position of the Government. Would a government representative, Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, like to speak? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Józef Szczurek-Żelazko: Yes.]] Come on up to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u203	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make a brief addition to the rapporteur's statement here and to refer to your discussion. Until now, issues of school-based health care have been regulated in various legal acts, laws, regulations or guidelines. And it caused some chaos of competence, lack of cooperation, for example. the legal basis for the school nurse's use of the family doctor's records. In general, dental care for children and young people was not regulated. And we have therefore decided at the Ministry of Health that there will be a specific legal act that will comprehensively regulate the health care of children and young people. And, as the senator said, the leading role in this trial will be played by a school nurse who will take care of these children. In 2017, as has already been mentioned, the government allocated PLN 150 million to finance the equipment of preventive offices in schools. With these resources, we have equipped over 9,000 offices, including over 1 thousand 700 offices newly created. So they're 100%. secured funding for the start-up and equipment of preventive offices. Last year, also from the state budget, the funds were allocated to equip dental offices. And in the contest procedure 42 offers were submitted. Agreements were signed to equip these offices and new offices were created, 42 dental offices in schools. Until now, dental offices have only functioned in larger schools. Currently we have a total of over 750 dental offices in schools. As far as health costs are concerned, they are 100% covered by the National Health Fund, both with regard to the provision of nurses in the teaching and education environment, as well as dental services for children and young people. Few of this has been increased the evaluation of the dental point, in order to encourage dentists to provide services in the first place to children and young people, because of the need to secure proper care. As far as dental care is concerned, as I said, this issue has not yet been specifically regulated. This law regulates the dental care system for children and young people in a very specific way. We're basing this system on three pillars. The first is dental offices operating in large schools. That's what the money was meant for. Some of the offices are already in operation, there are contracts signed with the National Health Fund. Dentists work, provide benefits. If, for various reasons, it was not appropriate to start a dental office in a given school... This law imposes an obligation on the local government to sign an agreement with the nearest dental office. And under this agreement, students are to be admitted in this dental office in the first place. I repeat that this is financed and will be financed 100% by the National Health Fund. Another second pillar complementing the dental care system for children is purchased from the state budget of dentobuses. They were purchased on the basis of the 2017 specialization. There are 16 dentobuses working in every voivodship in our country. They all worked last year. In dentobuses, benefits are provided on the basis of a schedule established between the provider, the dentist who operates the dentobus and the voivodeship of the National Health Fund. A schedule is set for the stay of dentobuses in specific establishments and benefits are provided there. Dentobuses reach where there is no office in school and where there is no office in the surroundings. We know that there are situations where children are 15 km away from the nearest office, and the school is small. Dentobus reaches such places. In the dentobus, both preventive benefits and corrective actions can be provided, which means that dentists can perform treatments that result from oral health. How is the new system different from the old one? As far as dentistry is concerned, the system has not yet been regulated at all. We are here as if we are showing a new model, specific obligations imposed on the headmaster of the school, local government, as well as on the authorities of the state, because this is where the funding takes place. We regulate the role of a nurse at school, we give her the right to participate in pedagogical councils. Until now, there has been no legal basis for this. I know that, of course, nurses have participated in meetings of the pedagogical board at the invitation of the Director, but at the moment we are giving them the right to participate in pedagogical councils where the health problems of pupils will be discussed. We give the nurse and all child care providers the right to access medical records at the disposal of other medicinal products to the extent necessary for the care of the child. There hasn't been an authorisation so far. We're clearly typing in the bill... We give local authorities such competence that they can allocate public funds to the equipment of dental offices. This was not fully regulated in the current legal situation. Some local government officials explained that they could not create dental offices, to allocate funds to them, because this is not clearly defined by law. Such regulations are now being introduced. There's another major change. The Act regulates the way children with disabilities are cared for at school. We have paid particular attention to ensuring that children with disabilities are properly looked after. This is where the school nurse... We also require directors to train teachers who are with disabled children and take care of them, to train them so that they can really support disabled children in a professional way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u204	Thank you, Minister. At present, the senators may ask questions to the Minister. Senator Chudowska reporting. Please. [[I volunteered first.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u205	Kaziu, will you give me space? [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[I'll give up on you, but I volunteered first.]] Thank you. Minister, I have this question: will the nurses who are retired possibly, because their health no longer allow them to work hard in the section, in the hospital or even in the clinic, to be employed in school offices?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u206	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u207	Yes, of course, but provided that they meet the requirements laid down in the legislation, in the law, i.e. they are persons who have a Master's degree or a nurse's degree in various cycles, whether in a high school cycle, in a medical high school or under a bachelor's degree, but who have a specialization or a qualification course or who are in the course of these specializations. By all means, if they have such qualifications, they can be employed as much as possible in the teaching environment. [[It's just, Minister, age won't matter.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u208	Mr. Senator, please sign up... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Józef Szczurek-Żelazko: I encourage...]] ...because there are other people in front of you. The minister's done. You're asking Senator Klein a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u209	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I understand that this will happen in such a way that the school principal will sign contracts with the nurse, then she will become a school employee and it will be financed by the National Health Fund and this money will be transferred to the school. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Józef Szczurek-Żelazko: No.]] No?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u210	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u211	The nurse's funding will be the same as before. The nurse is an employee of a healthcare provider who has an agreement with the National Health Fund, or can take care of students as part of an individual or group practice, having its own business entity and of course a signed contract with the NFZ. There's no middleman... [[So she's signing...]] There is no intermediary in the form of a director when it comes to payments, payments do not pass through the school board at all. The contract is signed between the NFZ and the nurse or between the NFZ and the health centre or the clinic that employs the nurse, and these measures... [[And he's directing her to school?]] Yes. The school board is absolutely not charged here, it does not finance such benefits in any way, it is only responsible for cooperation and coordination. [[The office is in school, I understand. Yes?]] Yes. The law says that the headmaster of the school provides a room that will be used for prevention or dental work. As I said, the state budget was used to equip these offices and municipalities, because as a rule the municipalities are school authorities, they could benefit from these funds; possibly a dentist, with the consent of the local government, of course, of the school's management, can run such a dental office in the school. As far as schools are concerned, there is no financial burden.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u212	Next question, Mr. Senator Kleina. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u213	Now I have a question about schools about public school privileges run by NGOs. Do they participate on the same terms as schools... The point is that there are very many schools in small towns that are run by various kinds of NGOs. Do the bodies running these schools, or associations, have the same rights as public schools? Why am I asking this? Since in January of this year a regulation of the Minister of National Education concerning the feeding of children in schools was adopted and children were excluded from this programme who were taught in schools run by NGOs, even if these schools have the powers of public schools, which led to a manifest injustice in this matter. Is this the problem... I hope that he does not exist and that, regardless of what the school authority is, children have exactly the same rights and in such a school there will also be offices funded by the National Health Fund, of course on the same terms. That's how I understand it. Yes? Yeah, I guess so.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u214	Yes, every child who is in the Republic of Poland is entitled to health benefits free of charge, in accordance with the... [[I know that.]] ...funded by public funds. The constitution also guarantees free access... Whatever school he is at, the child is taught, these benefits are available. The exception is schools that do not have a full profile, e.g. It's artistic. So if a child goes to primary school or to general secondary school, and in addition to artistic school, he will no longer have this additional care in artistic school, but if music school is also a general school, then he will. There is also the question of the number of students in such a school, that is what we are talking about, i.e. not every school is justified by the creation of a dental office. If the school is small, then in this case we use the rights of the agreement, i.e. the school head should sign the agreement e.g. with a dentist operating in the environment, or make sure that a dentist shows up at school. As far as school nurses and students are concerned, so far the rules set out in the basket regulations apply. According to these current regulations, 1 nurse takes care of students between 800 and 1 000 200. And that made a nurse appear rarely in small schools. At the moment, the number of schools in the system is decreasing, because because of the reform of school education more students are counting, but there are fewer students, so the number of nurses will automatically decrease, so they will certainly work more in working time. I think that the next step towards improving student care will be to consider the possibility of reducing this limit, but we will only examine it when the law enters into force. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u215	Thank you very much, Minister. [[I'd like to...]] Yes, you can ask, of course. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u216	He might not ask, he just... Because I'm interested in how it's going to be in practice, for example. in the municipality of Cewice in the powiat Lęborski, and such municipalities are probably many. Well there is 1 main school in the municipality and she has several hundred people, so many children go to this school, but there are also many schools in which there are about 100 students, so it is in these municipalities. So what's it gonna be like in practice? There are also schools run by NGOs and there in some schools And as far as I know, I'm going to give you this particular example. It's like, you know, it's like, you know, it's like, you know, it's like, you know, it's like, you know, it's like, you know, it's like, you know, it's like, it's like, you know, it's like, you're like, So, as I say, there are schools run by NGOs and these municipal schools. How will this be done in practice? To whom does the headmaster of a school run by a non-governmental organization ask to provide him with this dental care and nursing care? Who's gonna say that? How should he do that in practice?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u217	With regard to the care of the nurse in the situation that the senator is asking about, the director is obliged to make contact with the nearest primary healthcare facility or the nearest medical facility that employs nurses. And this patient... Besides, I think it's already... [[Minister, but the situation is usually that there are not enough nurses in these subjects.]] Mr. Senator... [[They're gonna say, "Where am I gonna get a nurse?"]] Mr. Senator, this care system is in place, school nurses are taking care of their children, taking care of them at school grounds, depending on the size of the school. In larger schools nurses are daily, and in smaller schools they are every other day or maybe even less. Therefore, this law also provides for training for teachers so that teachers can intervene in situations where children with disabilities so require. This is a matter currently regulated by law. However, the issue of dental care was absolutely not regulated and this is the second part of your question. Namely, the head of such a small school has a choice to sign an agreement with the nearest dental office, and then children on the basis of this agreement should be accepted within the prescribed time limit, scheduled, within a convenient period by this dentist, and if there is no such office in the vicinity, then it is necessary to contact the director responsible in the voivodeship of the National Health Fund branch and determine the stay of the dentist. This dentobus can be around this school long enough, depending on your needs, it's not like one day it's gonna come and the next day it's gonna be gone. If there's need, he can come back. These children in this form may have health benefits. So it's kind of spread over three pillars.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u218	Just one more question, I won't ask again. So it doesn't matter what kind of authority the school is, is it a non-governmental organization or a local government? This case doesn't matter, it just doesn't matter? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Józef Szczurek-Żelazko: It does not matter because the child has the right to benefits.]] So this is the case with the Minister of Education, it's an accident at work, and they're probably gonna be updating this regulation. There's no problem here.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u219	I will not refer to the Minister of Education's regulations. In the case of health care, every child in Poland has the right to free care, regardless of what school he takes his education at. [[Good. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u220	Thank you very much. Senator Tomasz Grodzki. Please. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. Mr. Senator, please be quiet. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u221	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, you said 720 schools already have dental offices. The school is about 20,000, maybe 18,000. What will be the money to equip at least some of these schools with dental offices? I'm not talking about dentists anymore.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u222	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u223	Dear Senator, as I said, last year, 5 million PLN was allocated from the state budget to competitions for local authorities. These competitions were intended to finance the equipment of dental offices. And I have to say that unfortunately not all the funds have been used, i.e. local authorities have not reached for these funds. All the applications that have been submitted and properly prepared have been co-financed and further offices have been created. In other cases, it will be a matter of whether it is a matter of local government or perhaps of further government action. But for now, because last year's grant was not used 100% We're not planning another edition this year.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u224	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u225	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The first issue of general nature: I know that there have been problems, at least in some voivodships, with the filling of 16 dentists just dentists. And how can you be sure that these 720 offices will be filled with dentists or otherwise: that there will be some way to force or encourage dentists to sign contracts? 'Cause here's a voluntary issue, I don't think you can force a dentist to do that. Does that mean that this aid will be effective? And the second question, more specifically: why is this dental aid limited in the case of prevention up to the age of nineteen and in the case of treatments up to the age of eighteen children? Why? In general, there are 19-year-olds in high school, e.g. There are also 20-year-olds in technology. Where's the line coming from? What did that come from?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u226	As regards the first question concerning dentists, ladies and gentlemen, dentobuses have been successfully contracted in individual voivodships and there have been situations that 2 or even 3 competition procedures have been carried out, but consequently contracts have been signed with dentists and all dentobuses have been working since at least October last year. Such an incentive to encourage dentists to work in this area was a better valuation of benefits. On average, this valuation was increased by around 30% compared to the valuation used for adults. The index 1.3 has made these benefits more profitable. In addition, dentobuses are also financed on a flat-rate basis, i.e. we cover the fixed costs of operation of the dentobus separately. So that here at the moment there is no problem with the operation of these dentobuses. In addition, the National Health Fund financed last year also in previous years, but last year 100% All dental benefits for children and young people, so there is no concern that these benefits may not be financed. Hence, there is no such caution in taking up this challenge. The second point was...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u227	If there's anything else you can do about the first question... I am not accusing or forecasting that you will not have the money for this solution, but vice versa: that there will be no willing dentists who will take it. That's about the first question. As for the second one, it was about the age limit of 19 years and 18 years.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u228	Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the number of dentists in Poland is concerned, I do not want to say that we have enough, but if we look at indicators about dentists, we can see that they are one of the highest in Europe. Generally, several entities are often submitted for competitions organised by the National Health Fund, so the competitions that are organised are being decided. And the funding that has now been proposed is attractive. I'm going back to the limit issue. We are talking about health care for students, which is also carried out by a school nurse in the teaching and upbringing environment. We limit the child's age to 19 years, but that does not mean that an adult adult is not entitled to benefits. Such a person is a member of the school community and has the right to benefits. If he goes to a given school, he is entitled to benefits in the dental office because he is an insured person. He has the right to such benefits. We're talking about nursing care, which is organized at school, and here it's specified that until the age of 19... But we generally do not restrict the availability of benefits. Such an adult has the right to use the services of a family doctor, an environmental and family nurse, etc., etc. So that here we do not restrict this right in any way.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u229	I'm sorry, Minister, but... we have a fourth-grader who was born in March and ends school in June. I'm talking about high school. And it's like this: instead of him I'm sorry. He can't use this school office between March and June. For me it is strange, why there is some rigid age restriction here, and not simply a subject term very simple and clear on the principle: he is a student of the school; he is not a student of the school; he is not It doesn't. [[What if he's wintering and he's 21?]] We don't have those anymore. [[What do you mean, no?]] We don't have those anymore. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Józef Szczurek-Żelazko: Mr. Senator...]] I don't know about you, but we're not in Opole.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u230	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. Does the Minister have anything else to add on this matter?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u231	This 19- or even 20-year-old student, if he is a member of this school community, has the right to use this school office. He has the right, because this office also operates on a public basis. So he has the right to use it. Similarly, a student who will be sent to this office from another school He also has the right, even though he doesn't learn at a given school. So there is absolutely no discrimination here, but we generally define that care in the environment of education and education covers up to nineteen years of age.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u232	Thank you very much. Senator Kazimierz Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u233	I'm sorry I'm such a pain in the ass about this. In the meantime, I've called your uncle, the Commune of Power. It is a large municipality, quite rich, between Lębork and Słupsk, in a pole district located. There are several schools in this municipality, and each has about 250 students. So they're not huge schools, they're just, let's say, normal schools. I asked how many nurses there were, and how many nurses were able to sign some kind of agreement so that this care would be in these schools. Not one. How many dental offices or contracts did dentists sign? There isn't one. How many times have there been dentobuses in these schools lately? Not once. It's all gonna change now, I understand. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u234	Mr. Wojcie, I... [[Senator.]] Excuse me, Mr. Senator, excuse me... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[It's okay.]] I think that's the question we should ask you. [[Yes?]] Why didn't he bother to find out... In fact, it was his duty to report the children to the school nurse in the nearest medical facility. It's the principal's duty every year... [[The principal of the school?]] The principal of the school. The headmaster of the school at the beginning of September, by September 10th, should report the children... [[I see.]] ...which are registered to his school... [[The voice from the hall: And he snitched on the uncle!]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...to be taken care of. [[No, he didn't rat on the uncle.]] [[The voice from the room: he spilled it!]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator... [[Voice from the hall: Such a dentobus must be invited...]] [[But of course, it's been done many times. And they invited a dentobus, and they tried to find a nurse who...]] I think... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[You guys think that's funny, don't you? Because you live in big cities, in Warsaw, where...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[And the case is very, very serious. You're talking about equal access. I'm asking this out of kindness, not out of any bad will, and you gentlemen are laughing at it. Well, I'm just sorry to hear that.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u235	Quiet, please. Quiet, please. Minister, are you still... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[It's a good thing someone was a minister, had that access, etc. But the children in the countryside don't have that chance at all.]] Mr. Senator, Mr. Senator... But we want to change that. [[And I want to know that as a result of this bill, it will actually change.]] But we want to change that. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Then why are the senators laughing at me?]] Who would dare, absolutely... [[Yeah, they're laughing, they're just mocking.]] No, no... But, Mr. Senator... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: How?]] [[Senator Kazimierz Kleina: What? I can see that.)]] Quiet, please. Quiet, please. [[I don't try to be emotional, I don't speak emotionally, but this is serious.]] Of course it's serious. Mr. Senator, the Minister will now respond to this. [[I accept all these messages, and I want it to be and I will be happy, and I will praise the ministers and all of you.]] Good. Mr. Senator... Good. [[I'm not questioning anything anymore...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u236	Under this law, the governor will be required to sign an agreement whereby children should have secure access to dental and preventive services.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u237	Thank you very much. Would anybody else like to speak? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I'll ask Senator Konstanty Radziwiłł to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u238	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I think we're dealing with... There's a lot of emotion going on around here, I don't think it's necessary. We're dealing with a law that is a law on coordination. It's nothing to say, very innovative, except that we're restoring you, we're simply restoring you and your responsibility. I think that's what it looks like. I'd like to start by saying that this is a law that is contrary to appearances difficult, a bill to which to introduce... In general, work on it began a long time ago, at a time when I was still the Minister of Health. It is a simple implementation of the Law and Justice programme announcements, because already in 2014 the Law and Justice programme included a provision that we would restore school medicine. In my opinion, it is worth mentioning, because this is another proof that we do not throw words at the wind. The work at the Ministry of Health took so long not because somehow it was sleazy there... that officials couldn't deal with it, just because this law, as we have already seen here, arouses a lot of emotions, especially at various contacts between institutions or groups of people, or non-governmental organizations that work at school. I mean, for example. the environment of parents, the nursing environment, school heads, as well as local authorities. Although the senator is in charge of the Minister there, I would like to stress the personal role of Minister Josepha Szczurek-Żelazko in the preparation of this law, her determination and really very warmly and warmly thank you for the fact that we have the opportunity to work on this law today. This is a really big deal. I think there's a great chance to bring back what most of us from our childhood remembers, what worked well, and what I think is the result. Well, it's been growing and it's hard to even look for a guilty man, but it was just like that. The adoption that health care regulates itself or that the invisible hand of the free market regulates it... It just doesn't work in some areas, and that's the area of care for students, for children. We are restoring a certain order and responsibility of the state. The Minister mentioned here some obligations to special care for children, which stem directly from the Constitution. I think that this is an expression of the fact that we take the constitution seriously and the resulting obligations set out in relation to public authority. Public authority is not only central power, but also self-government power. I think we should also pay attention to the fact that, for example. when in 2017 we offered PLN 150 million to equip school offices, I don't remember the exact number right now. We didn't spend about half of that money because the government failed. Many self-governments, even though they were getting... could have gotten the money. It was the amount of about PLN 6,000 for the equipment of the school's health prevention cabinet, it simply did not take this money. A similar situation occurred in 2018, when the State offered similar support for organising dental offices in schools. It's a pity that it is. Yeah, but it's important to note that, like in the proverb, there's an ambaras for two to want at the same time. It is not enough that there is determination from the government that there are good rules. There must be cooperation on the other hand. This Dentobus isn't coming alone. We just have to invite him. This office won't do itself, you have to finance it, well, now with your own money, but once you could do it with state money, budget money. Well, it's not some cost that turns the municipalities' budgets away, so it seems like you can make up for it even where some local government officials slept through it in 2017. However, it should be noted that cooperation on the other hand is simply needed here. The law quite laconically imposes certain obligations on school heads, but also on local government officials. Yeah, but you just have to take it seriously and fill it out. And I think if we can do that With the active help of local authorities and school heads, there will soon be a health prevention office in each school. And that's, you can say, a certain first step, a foundation. Of course, in larger schools the nurse will be in this office all the time, in small schools... Yeah, there's no way that's gonna happen. 100 children were served by a nurse on the board because it's simply impossible to finance. It's clear. She'll be there periodically. But, ladies and gentlemen, this isn't about someone constantly watching the baby medically, it's just... Once again, I am returning to this objective of this basic law, that is, coordination. Well, actually, a nurse at school... Of course, she has responsibilities in the field of e.g. providing first-aid treatment or some kind of assistance in cases of illness. But above all, The provisions of this law also apply to this. She is to coordinate certain matters concerning the health of the child, especially in the area of prevention. This, by the way, aroused so much emotion during the work on the bill, i.e. Is it... Because it is simply written that this nurse on the one hand is to participate in pedagogical councils, and on the other hand is to work with basic health care, with a primary health care team. In my opinion, this is a brilliant solution. It's the most important thing. Because what does that mean in practice? It means that such a nurse is going to be the person who will ensure that the vaccinations are carried out, whether the tests commissioned by the POZ doctor are carried out, and if the child is in some dispansing group or requires some additional care, then he will simply watch it. It was a little emotional that someone would be, as some say, interfering. But if we, as a state and as a community, have some collective responsibility towards children, then that is the only way to do it. Of course I'm gonna say it softly, because there are no strong solutions here. But if someone is responsible for the child and is precisely, well, the coordinator between the pedagogical council, parents and the primary healthcare team, then there is a chance that we will simply deal with a much larger number of different problems in children, with the result that appropriate intervention will be undertaken. And this, in my opinion, is a great solution that really gives a great chance that, in short, children will be healthier, that we will miss what is known at this moment in terms of public health in the world: that the next generations will live shorter, not longer. Why? Because they live unhealthy. Well, for example. Because of obesity, the obesity epidemic. So it's all very important. And the second issue, which I think is extremely important in this very act, is the issue of children with chronic illness. Ladies and gentlemen, for obvious reasons, it will never be that every child will have a medical assistant, whoever it is, who will walk around this child. You can't do that. But there's a plan to prepare... Firstly, the Minister of Health will be able to commission or develop together with scientific associations such, one can say, simple ways of reacting to some chronically ill children, e.g. allergic (hypersensitive) Administration of adrenaline with diabetes reaction in case of undersugaration, etc., etc. You will be able to prepare simple schemes, recommendations for a procedure such as pre-medication, but with the use of medications, in short. This could be done by school workers who aren't medical workers. This is extremely important and, in my opinion, this is also a huge step forward. And, ladies and gentlemen, this is not just about saving specific children in different situations, it is also about giving a certain guarantee or a sense of security to both these children and their parents above all, as well as schools that receive these children, so that there are no cases that happen today. - cases of discrimination against these children. In short, the school doesn't want them, and the only choice they're offered is individual teaching or home teaching. This is a step, a huge step forward, towards getting out of this discrimination that is taking place. She may be so quiet, you don't talk about her, but it just happens. So if we're gonna... [[Time...]] ...have prepared these exact patterns of conduct, trained teachers or other school staff and the possibility of treating these children in such exceptional situations, it will simply be a big step, such a civilization step forward. In conclusion, in the last sentence, I will say again what I have already actually indicated, i.e. to restore the real role of the state in relation to the young generation, the responsibility of public authority Once again, I say: public authority of various levels. And I think it's a law that really makes us hope that we're gonna do something really good together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u239	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Tomasz Grodzki. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u240	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! My esteemed previous speaker said it was a restoration of the state. I kind of feel like this is a rehearsal. The restoration of socialism, because as Senator Klein pointed out in his questions, this system, theoretically created, does not function. And if we look at this bill, its records, the sentiments... We remember that you were a school hygienist, and sometimes, for example. At my school, there was a pediatrician. Only when I broke my arm, it turned out there wasn't even a piece of rainwater to hold that hand, so she just patted me and said, "Go, boy, to the ambulance." That's pretty much what it looked like. However, the idea of a nurse temporarily staying at school • provided that she cooperates well with the surrounding family doctor • is perhaps the right idea. I'm having a lot of doubts about whether... [[Talking in the O.R.]] May I, Mrs. Marshal, ask the ladies and gentlemen to stop talking? [[Yes. Quiet, everyone. Quiet, please.]] If these nurses are enough... As a man of good faith, I believe the Minister will. However, I have doubts whether dental offices will be built in these tens of thousands of schools. I also have doubts about this admission without a queue of young people in the dentist's office, where the student will come and, waving the bill, will go outside the queue in front of the old lady. Of course, I exaggerate a little, but it's not well thought out. The Minister was at the committee meeting polite to mention that for 14 months dentobuses carried out about 41 thousand advices. I don't know how many dental procedures, even the easiest ones, but as it was 14 months and 16 dentobuses, at 20 working days a month it turns out that this is a daily 9 visits to the dentobus. Well, you'll admit it's not a shockingly high number. These dentobuses, I remind you, were supposed to go where the dentist doesn't get there. Now they're gonna go to school to, let's say, complete their mission so that the money spent on these dentobuses will turn around more. I also have doubts about where we're gonna get the money to equip these dental offices, because the provision of the resort is quite enigmatic. It seems that these dentists themselves are going to come there with these offices and eventually open them on the school premises, and they will be available to students, as well as other non-students, including adults. I don't know how this applies to the protection of children at school, because as far as I know, in many schools the admission of outsiders is definitely inappropriate or controlled. But that's the details. However, I would ask you very much not to abuse the words about the disabled, because first Minister Zalewska sentenced many of them to home ghettos, eliminating them from integration classes, eliminating them from school, and now we say that we will take care of them and teach teachers to administer adrenaline or glucose. I see a teacher giving adrenaline to a student who's gonna pass out. I believe in the optimism of Minister Radziwiłł, but in practice, if this works once, twice, three, it's okay, but once the baby dies, imagine what's going to happen. So let's not use the disabled to push this bill. She is not evil in her assumptions, which is why as a club we will not vote against, but in our view she is some kind of fantasy and resentiment for the past years and unfortunately in those assumptions which are formulated here, she unfortunately will not succeed and will remain another purely theoretical law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u241	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm informing you that... [[Ad vocem.]] You're welcome, Senator. You're even entitled to five more minutes. [[No, thank you, Mrs. Marshal, I just wanted to...]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u242	I'm sorry, my reaction may be very medical, but I think it's just an injury, what Professor Grodzki, a senator who's a doctor, said just now that there's some risk of death after adrenaline in the pre-filled syringe, unnecessary administration. [[Okay.]] It's just not true. The risk is so minimal that it is better to administer this adrenaline unnecessarily than not to give it needed. Don't scare me like that, because it's just socially harmful, and it's very harmful. There's no risk. If there is doubt as to whether someone is dying of anaphylactic shock, he should be given adrenaline in a pre-filled syringe prepared specifically for this purpose. If this is not an anaphylactic reaction, the patient will be safe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u243	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Maciej Łuczak made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Before we proceed with the next point, which is the tenth point, I will read the message. Dear Senators, I propose that immediately after considering the eleventh point, i.e. Act on the amendment of the Act on Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Products, proceed to the examination of the 17th point, i.e. Act on the amendment of the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance, the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals and some other laws. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the shaping of the agricultural system and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1168 and the report of the Commission In print No 1168 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator. Come on up to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u244	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to report on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on yesterday's committee meeting, where the committee leaned on this version of the law and discussed it quite deeply. The Commission has supported the law and proposes that the High House adopt it without amendments. This bill is meant to... After two years of functioning, working on it... The revision will improve some of the provisions that were introduced in 2016. After many votes, many initiatives submitted by organizations, by unions, by cooperatives, by notaries... Many, many comments were submitted, said to improve the operation. At the moment, in order to achieve the goals, the catalogue of loved ones was extended to include the siblings of parents and stepdaughters. The application of the Act on the formation of the agricultural system to agricultural real estate, in which land marked in the land and buildings register as land under fish ponds represent at least 70%, has also been excluded real estate area, and acquired from the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury. home gardens. The next point is to clarify the procedure and the conditions for approval by the Director-General of the National Agricultural Support Centre for the acquisition of agricultural property by specifying the requirements to be met by the request for consent, and to indicate the documents to be attached to it, as well as how to document the impossibility of selling agricultural property to individual farmers. It will be necessary to publish a notice of intent to sell real estate on the KOWR website free of charge. I think this is one of the solutions that has not yet been, and which is very important. I'll say it's free of charge. Such opportunities will be realised. Next point. The previous obligation for the purchaser to give the guarantee of proper agricultural activity has been replaced by a requirement for him to undertake to carry out agricultural activities on the property purchased and to obtain an opinion on the intended agricultural activity issued by the competent voivodship farm advisory centre. The period for which: the purchaser of the agricultural property is obliged to maintain the holding in which the acquired property entered into is modified to 5 years from 10 years; the acquired property must not be disposed of or disposed of by other entities. The following amendment is that consent to the disposal or transfer of acquired agricultural property within 5 years of its acquisition will be expressed by the Director-General of the NKR by an administrative decision and not by a court. The higher authority will be the Minister of Agriculture. That's easy, too. A written statement by the owner of the holding will prove the personal operation of the holding. The requirement for such a declaration by the governor, the mayor or the president of the city has been waived. Unnecessary walking around the office... I think it's very important, too. Next point. The right to buy shares and shares in capital companies which hold agricultural property with a total area of less than 5 ha has been excluded. The right to acquire agricultural property from passenger companies with agricultural land with a total area of less than 5 ha has been abolished. The KOWR will be able, with the agreement of the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development, to use the ownership of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury to establish safeguards for the implementation of State policy tasks in the implementation and application of agricultural support instruments, active agricultural policy and rural development. This is a very important element, because KOWR is now to have the opportunity to operate more widely, not just as so far as the real estate agency, and in connection with this policy it is to implement, it will have an additional tool. With the agreement of the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development, the Director-General of KOWR will be able to separate from the real estate stock, which together with other property components form an inseparable, organised economic whole, called agricultural production centres. The NKER will manage the centres by means of a time-stamped payment to be used for payment, after a tender has been made, to legal and natural persons. This is a chance that farmers from 50 hectares will also be able to perform if they have such opportunities. The KOWR's field departments were authorised to award public contracts for services, supplies or works related solely to the activities of the KOWR's field branch. I think this is also an approach: let's stop centralizing all things, let them have a little more possibilities in the voivodship. With regard to the entry into force of the Act, it is known that we propose 14 days, but there is one provision that we move about the intention to sell agricultural property, which will enter into force 12 months after the announcement. This provision gives the opportunity to prepare KOWR and farmers for such activities so that they can already announce these offers, and on the basis of this it will be clear how to carry out the sale of real estate, whether it will be possible to sell to another entity, than is apparent directly from the Act. I think these are expected changes, over a year lasting discussions on this subject. One important element is that we allow for an increase from less than 0.3 ha to less than a hectare. This is the way out to meet the expectations of those who want to acquire real estate, without being farmers, in rural and urban areas, because it applies in urban and rural areas. This is certainly expected. Farmers have only concerns, and all the time, Minister, there is an appeal, which I have already spoken of many times from this speaker, to lay down certain rules. Because if we allow more and more non-farmers to settle in rural areas and on urban land, there should be such a provision and such regulation that a farmer has the right to be a farmer, grow, grow, it cannot be like at the moment that something is being blocked by the farmers all the time. I also point out that if there is a draft law that talks about distances in the case of farm building, this law should also have been written if we already have a distance to show farmers that there should be a ban on building up to farms... Because it can't be like we're putting up a cowshed, and cities or communities are issuing permits. 'Cause it's mostly a permit issued by the county office. Then people build 500 meters away, and in a minute they'll be right next to... Again, production or livestock cannot be maintained. Therefore, there is an appeal: if we are already going in this direction, we are giving opportunities to live, then those who live must accept the conditions of living in the countryside, and not the opposite, that these villagers impose on us the impossibility of agricultural production. That's where the appeal is from, but... In Germany, no one will even think that he is not allowed to grow. And in Poland, the fashion begins that we farmers cannot function in rural areas. It should be that if you want to settle in the countryside, you have to accept these conditions, not at 10:00 p.m. call and alarm the police, because a farmer drives a combine or tractor or sprays at night. And when should a farmer spray, if not at night, if it is his duty not to spray bees during the flight? Especially since these measures are effective at night, not at noon. [[Voice from the room: Work, management.]] And that's where he bows down... Because if we are already moving towards the possibility of making agricultural land available to people who are not individual farmers, then they must follow the relevant rules. That's it. Thank you and I ask the High House to support the adoption of the law without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u245	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of you like to ask such a question? I already know you do. Senator Kazimierz Klein. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u246	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I have a question. Don't you think that, first, in 2015 or 2016, when you adopted this law on the agricultural system, you took all the property rights away from people, and now you're just a little bit cocky, a little bit... And it is so that we are now happy with any such addition of some rights to the owner of. can sell, can buy, etc. Don't you feel that way? It's a question of a comment. Second question. With this bill, this change... I paid attention to this when drafting this law of the first, this law of the mother. The issue was the sale of palace teams. This is a pretty serious problem with us in Pomerania. The object of the trade could not be the palace which was within such a large farm complex. Will it be possible to disable it at the moment, will it be possible to sell this type of property normally? The point is to prevent their degradation. A farmer who grows, say, 200 hectares or more is not interested in having a palace, because it is often a ballast for him. Has this case been settled in any way in this bill? [[May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u247	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u248	Mr. Senator, let me put it this way: indeed, the regulations that we introduced at the time... I do not hide that I myself was the initiator of protests which took place in areas mainly of north-western Poland. We remember that then... [[But you do remember that it was a huge manipulation after all. Right?]] Oh, dear. But maybe I'll finish. I'm not talking about manipulation, I'm talking about reality. If you went there, especially after the West Pomeranian Voivodeship, you'd know how many companies there are, how many land by foreign capital was taken over in the form of leases or possible acquisitions. Let us remember that at that time she passed the so-called. Derogation, that's 12 years... It was necessary to obtain permission to acquire property in the case of foreigners, but this provision disappeared. And that's when this law was dealt with, so as to limit the possibility of speculating on the earth. Even then farmers were replaced There have been cases where they have signed such obligations... When buying real estate, someone gave money for a commitment that the buyer would hand over the land to him when it was possible to give it to him. I had such signals from my colleagues, they came to me and said: "I came to me like this and said, "Listen, you have a lease, buy this land; you have no money, but I will, of course, give you money now, and then you will give me this land." They were not citizens of the Republic of Poland. Such situations were, there were attempts to approach our colleagues, who were land tenants in the West Pomerania. This made it necessary to write in the bill that if you want to be a host, you are a citizen of the European Union, but you are not a citizen of the Republic of Poland, so you have the same rights, because the derogation passes... Therefore, the records were: if you want, you have to live here, you have to host, run a farm on this land for 10 years... And then you can. And that's what those rules were for. The second solution that the Minister of Agriculture introduced was that the Treasury stock should no longer be sold. You introduced it to Minister Jurgiel. So it was not possible to sell real estate from the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury. It's also slowed down this rotation. There was also an extortion of the sale of agricultural property to tenants, because money was sought to patch holes. In this way, 1 billion, almost 2 billion were raised through the agency to the state budget to patch holes, often forcing the sale of land. The farmers are already bringing in... Recently, I had a meeting with farmers who even took such a resolution to bring to the government a position on the transfer of payment deadlines to farmers who bought land. They had to buy it, otherwise, if they hadn't bought their lease, they'd just have to get out of this land. So they've made commitments they can't pay at this point, and they're asking the government to take action on this. As this law is not yet in operation, because it has not yet been agreed with the European Commission, I am talking about the so-called. lengthening, shifting deadlines, etc. They ask the government to take action on this matter, to allow farmers to extend this payment to 15 years or more, because these were often shorter deadlines and they are unable to pay back, which threatens to bankrupt the holding. I therefore propose here, Minister. Because this resolution has already been tabled In order to take such measures as will allow these farmers to postpone their deadlines, the more that we have already had 2 years of disasters, one can say, in a row. This is why it is imposed, and this year the next problem begins, because we have almost the drought problem, in some regions there has been no rain throughout April. Therefore, it is a request that those who bought this land under duress... That's what I call it, because they were forced: if you don't buy it, you hand it over to the agency and the agency sells it in an open bid. That's why I'm asking. And it allowed you to brake... I hope that the government will also take action so that farmers do not fall, that it will allow them to extend their repayment period, because this is due to the difficult economic situation which is today, after these disasters. And now, as far as the other element is concerned, this record of centers was created. I'm not so specific, you can explain to the Minister how to understand these centers, because there's a facility where buildings and buildings are located. I was told here, and it was justified that it would be so-called. not for sale but for lease At least that's what the bill says. The resource will therefore continue to function. As for the sale of palaces, I am already sending to the Minister that he may possibly refer, because there are no such detailed decisions on the stock here. We are talking mainly about agricultural land in this law. [[Yes, sir, but these teams are usually on agricultural land.]] I know, I'm just saying that there's one record in this bill that calls it centers, including buildings that are in these areas. And there's a record that farmers will also be able to join... As far as legal persons with 50 ha are concerned, they guarantee that they will be able to do so. The first version in the Seym, I remember, was about 300 ha, about the fact that people who own 300 ha will be able to take such actions, also lease these objects. This was reduced to 50 ha in the Sejm, the agricultural committee accepted such a proposal and was 50 ha. This was reduced so that more entities could apply for these so-called ones. centers. It's hard for me to decide, because it's KOWR who's gonna define the details. The Minister may know how to understand these palaces, because it's still the protection of monuments... There's probably another topic there, but I can't talk right now, because it's really not the subject of this bill, it's not written in this bill. I didn't find it. Unless somebody found something in there, you're the minister. So that I have so much to say about it. [[Okay...]] But understand that after this analysis, certain things have really been settled. There's no way that there's... It was growing, it was growing, it was going up. The price has stabilised, farmers are happy about it. Well, the loosening of this law goes only in that direction, so that KOWR also has more opportunity to pass such permission to acquire real estate. Shortening this period, introducing a 5-year period, not a 10-year period, is making it easier.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u249	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Marian the Sheriff.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u250	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator, I have a question: do you have any idea why during the work of the committee in the Sejm... Because it was actually there that there was a hardening, if you can say so, of the bill that the government submitted. The original proposal was even further in facilitating the marketing of land, especially as regards agricultural land in the city. That's one question. The second one is more detailed, because I have come across such a negative opinion concerning the marketing or softening of the conditions for the sale of land in the city, namely that there will still be some trouble here as regards the acquisition of land by land developers in the city, because the right of pre-emption in the sale of agricultural land, also in the city, will still have KOWR. This creates a barrier in terms of guaranteeing the transaction. Why was there such a thing as a hardening of the rotation? It was supposed to make it easier to trade land in the city. As we know, there is no land for construction. Do you know why this happened? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u251	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u252	Well, when it comes to making it easier for the city... Cities should make zoning plans. If the zoning plan states that it is under construction, then there will be no problem. However, cities are still slowing down with the development of spatial planning, and that would make things much easier for them. And it creates so-called at this point. speculation if we do not treat the city and the village equally. Why should we treat the city and the village differently? Please note that cities are expanding their areas, as it were, by engaging municipalities. On my way to Łódź, almost 10 km earlier I saw the inscription "Łódź," I entered the city limits. There was the inscription "Lodz" which means it is known that the Łódź has expanded. When I'm driving around in Poland... Gentlemen, you also drive around Poland, and you can see what are the areas of cities right now, as they grow. If I have information Mr. Minister, I think he's gonna straighten it out. I think there's about 900,000 ha in the city... It's a huge amount of land. It's a huge amount of land. Why would we release that amount of land immediately? Well, that would be a little out of line, in my opinion, since it's really in these areas. They're far away, far away, far away from becoming a city. Farming thrives, farmers grow something. As a result, colleagues in the Sejm have recognised here that agricultural areas must be treated equally in both rural and urban areas, and that local governments should make land-use plans and define them. I'll tell you what, too. I know the German system. There's something in Germany that's called an institution. Let's call it agricultural real estate. It is a 50% share of the State, and the rest is held by private entities, banks and other entities. And they deal with so-called. converting land, they watch it and create funds for this purpose, not, as in Poland today: who will buy agricultural land And immediately transforms it, earns millions of zlotys. Some institutions should do this, the NEB should also participate in such a mechanism. If you want to secure land for construction, KOWR should take these measures. And this country should have the proceeds from the transformation, as they do in Germany, not the development companies or some smart-ass group that bought land for $20,000 and then sold it for $2 million. Well, it's just certain... Why don't you do it? [[That's right, bravo.]] I believe that the state, as in Germany, is doing this... In the Lands they can do it, so why can't we do it through the state, change land development plans, carry out these tasks, transfer these land? You can transfer land to the city free of charge, the same land that is in stock agricultural property For the purposes defined, as needed for investments which will serve the public good.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u253	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u254	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator, tell me why this bill is being introduced, since I think it really knocks out the teeth of this bill passed by us two or three years ago. I understand certain specific provisions to make life easier for farmers, but how do you react to such a provision... what is it supposed to make easier for whom? Art. Two so far sounded... Yeah, no matter how. And what's it gonna sound like? I am, of course, only quoting the most appalling exceptions. After the proposed change? It's the rules of the mouth. 1 and 2; that is the paragraph concerning the obligation to sell to an individual farmer and the limitation to 300 hectares of land, which will be the total area of the holding plus the land bought. Okay, let's do it again. The provisions of paragraph 1. 1 and 2 do not concern the acquisition of agricultural property. And now point 9 in the paragraph. 3: In the course of enforcement and insolvency proceedings. There is no question of what kind of conduct, what kind of subjects. Overall: insolvency and enforcement proceedings. Anything could fall and everything could be executed by the bailiff. Paragraph 10: as a result of the abolition of joint ownership. It doesn't matter what kind of joint ownership, no matter who owns this joint ownership. Paragraph 11: following the division, transformation or merger of commercial law companies. Well, here it is possible to do anything. Start any company, bankrupt it, divide it, merge it. Hulk soul, hell is gone. This bill will actually be toothless. Of course, it will be a beautiful specimen. I'm sorry. If these points are left in this act, they are empty. What do you say?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u255	I can say in short: it was not discussed during the committee meeting and I find it difficult to refer to what is written here. I can only say that the provisions of the article that you just quoted are set out in detail in other articles, there are certain limitations. Therefore, I would possibly ask the Minister to refer to these records if he wanted to. Nevertheless, at first glance, when we read this, it may look like what you say. But in my opinion, all these further regulations... There it is defined when there are concessions, and when there are no concessions, when there is something to be done and when there isn't. Well, I don't want to argue here, because I'm not the one who, you know, runs this bill. At the committee meeting, this issue was not discussed and I will not refer to what... I am the rapporteur of the committee and I do not have to express my opinion at this point. Because it's my opinion as a senator, not as a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u256	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to ask a question? No. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have Minister Tadeusz Romanczuk, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Tadeusz Romanczuk: No, thank you very much.]] Thank you, Minister. But the senators can now report from a place of no more than a minute of inquiry to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Do any of you senators have that question? I'm sure you're Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. Please, Minister, to the podium. If anyone else has a question, we'll probably find out in a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u257	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I repeat the question which was addressed here to the Senator of the rapporteur. Don't you think that this law, after reducing the security of records, becomes really toothless? I'll rephrase the article. Article 2a (2) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 3. The requirement that the agricultural land must be sold to an individual farmer and that the area of that sale must not exceed 300 hectares does not have to be met: in the course of enforcement and insolvency proceedings It is not said who or what is to fall in the event of the abolition of joint ownership, i.e. any joint ownership, and worst of all, in the case of division, transformation or merger of commercial law companies. Every company. Here the maneuvering possibilities are, practically speaking, any. Minister, please tell me whether this law in this form will actually protect Polish land resources and will not lead to, for example, To the fact that the side gates, through maneuvers around commercial companies, through executions and bankruptcy, will we simply get rid of Polish land?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u258	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u259	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! High Izbo! I don't share that opinion. Senator Kleina called this first law a mother. Let me put it this way: this bill meets expectations. After several years of binding this law on the mother, as it is called here, suggestions of various kinds of associations, associations, as well as farmers themselves, went in this direction, so that, as it is said in the common language, we loosen the rigor of this first law. Therefore, we meet these expectations. Act in its current form, which is currently being processed in the High House This is my personal opinion, but of course I also express the opinion of the government and the Ministry of Agriculture There's, I'll say it again, Mr. Senator, to meet the expectations. In our opinion, these expectations were the same. Surely it is not possible to satisfy everyone, because it is impossible, but let us give ourselves time, let us apply the law in the form that will be adopted by the High House. Of course, we are open to further suggestions, we will discuss so as to find the best solution. I don't know if that's the best solution, because everything has advantages and disadvantages, but we're trying to meet expectations. The opinion of the Government and the Ministry of Agriculture is at the moment that this law will meet these expectations. That's what I'm gonna call it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u260	Thank you very much, Senator. Does anyone else have a question? Mr. Kazimierz Kleina. Mr. Senator, please. [[I'm checking in.]] Then Mr. Marian the Messenger.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u261	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The question I asked the rapporteur about the cheerleading bands. By virtue of the old law, there was practically a ban on selling these bands. Is it possible today? They often fall into ruins, the farmer is not interested in taking care of these palaces. Separation from an orgy of a building or some tiny piece of land doesn't work, because it takes space to get this team organized. Did you analyze this problem? Does this bill allow for this kind of release now? This is not only about land that is in the Treasury's resources, but also about private land. It happens that farmers bought whole farms, along with objects that are in different technical condition, and they just want to get rid of it, not just to make money, but just not to have this ballast. Maybe some people would like to make money, I don't prejudice it, but it's usually for a farmer, a normal farmer, just a ballast, because he doesn't have an idea how to make it, he can't afford to live in a palace.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u262	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u263	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I would say this: we give the KOWRs, these regionals, an assessment of each case, because this is a problem that needs to be leaned on. We, when discussing this bill, have considered it. I want to repeat that thesis here. Indeed, there are farmers who would like to get rid of such a team because it is unnecessary for them, and if it is on a farm, it is on their mind, so I will say. There is a possibility, only that each such case must be considered individually. It's not here. Yes, you're right. As a matter of principle... [[But there's a consent...]] Yes. [[...so that things can be handled. Yes? These farmers often have trouble with monument conservationists as well.]] Yeah, yeah. [[It is known that no one wants these monuments to be wasted, but this farmer can't afford to maintain it, renovate it, and then... well, not everyone wants to live in the palace.]] We agree here. Your suggestions and my response go in the same direction. It's okay, it's just, I repeat, we just have to get home here. That's how I'm gonna put it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u264	Thank you very much. You're Senator Marian the Sheriff. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u265	Thank you very much. Minister, on the occasion of this amendment, the article was also amended. 22 in the Law on the Management of Agricultural Real Estate of the State Treasury, which allows the creation of mortgage pledges on the Land of the State Treasury. Is there no concern here that through banks that, theoretically, can take over the land as a result of some failed solutions of the Treasury companies, these resources will go to banks, also banks with foreign capital or majority foreign capital? Isn't it a threat to the State Treasury's land to allow such solutions to be applied? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u266	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u267	But, Mrs. Marshal, Mr. Senator, there's an institution like KOWR, which also has to participate in such a procedure, there's no other way. [[There's no...]] No, there's no such threat here.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u268	Good. Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Tadeusz Romanczuk: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Products. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1150 and the report of the committee In print No 1150 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Przemysław Błaszczyk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u269	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! At yesterday's meeting, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development considered a law amending the Act on the Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Products. The amendment of the Trade Quality Act on agri-food products aims at adapting the provisions of national law to the following provisions of European Union law in force from 11 July 2018: Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2017/1182 and Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/1184. The consequence of the new EU rules is the repeal of the rules enabling the operators of slaughterhouses not to classify only pigs born and fattened in the fattening houses of those slaughterhouses and to cut all the carcases obtained or to slaughter small quantities of bovine animals under contract with the owner. In addition, the Act clarifies the rules for the classification and marking of carcases where the entity does so despite a lack of legal obligation. The Act introduces a number of types of prohibited acts that violate the provisions of the Act on classification and marking of carcases. The other changes consist of updating references to EU legislation. The bill at the committee meeting didn't give rise to any discussion. On behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I request that it be adopted without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u270	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of you like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister, I address Minister Tadeusz Romanczuk. Would you like to speak? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Tadeusz Romanczuk: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators can report no longer than a minute's time to the Minister. Does anyone want to ask that question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance of Crimes against the Polish Nationals and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1155 and the report of the Commission In print No 1155 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Andrzej Mioduszewski... [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] [[But no one's here.]] Good. Ladies and gentlemen, it's 6:50 p.m. [[He was just here.]] We are waiting for the Senator rapporteur and the representatives of the IPN. Okay, we're adjourned to 6:55 p.m. [[Adjournment from 18 minutes 50 to 18 minutes 55]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the session. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Andrzej Mioduszewski, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u271	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. President! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions on the Act adopted by the Sejm on 12 April on the amendment of the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance of Crimes and some other laws. Ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of the Act is to clarify the provisions of the amended laws on the basis of past experience and implementation of the Act. The changes are technical in nature, but allow the Institute of National Remembrance to apply the law when implementing laws on opposition activists, awarding awards, medals and decorations. The comments made by the Legislative Office concerned the compatibility of the Law with the principles of legislative and legislative technology and are therefore of a technical legislative nature. The Commission calls on the High Senate to adopt a law without amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u272	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Does anyone have a question for you? Please, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u273	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Buddy! You said so briefly that these changes are legislative in nature, but sometimes the legislative amendment introduces some major change. Could you zoom in on that?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u274	It's about certain exact terms... about the IPN activity field, the whole... the IPN activity field, including... I've missed that word now, I'm sorry. Archive inventory... The point is to define it. It is also about items that... IPN has its files, but also documents borrowed from the Archives of New Acts or State Archives. The point now is to clarify the law so that the use of... There is such an article in the Act in force, unless it is Article. 25, which forces institutions and entities to deliver files to IPN, but you know what it looks like in life. This right... to make all these changes will lead to the fact that the IPN will, as a matter of fact, be the owner and owner of these files. [[All of them?]] The ones he's gonna get. He won't only have them as rentals. Now if someone is applying to IPN for sharing, so to speak, their stuff, they can't get it, because the owner isn't an IPN, just for example. Archives of New Acts or State Archives. [[Can I ask you a question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u275	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u276	Does this mean that if the I.P.N. files are transferred from some other institution, they won't return to this institution anymore?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u277	Well, right now, if this institution asks, they're probably coming back, but it's about not coming back to own an IPN. [[Which leaves only the IPN as the only...]] Well, it's about the files that I.P.N. needs to determine these decorations, the awards... all those things that I.N. needs. Well, the ones that are unnecessary, probably won't accept, will not be passed on. [[I think maybe you'll be more specific.]] Maybe you'll be more specific with the president. In fact, it's pretty general... It really doesn't change anything in this law, it's just a clarification and facilitation of IPN's work.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u278	Thank you very much. Does anyone else have a question for the senator? There isn't. Thank you very much. The bill was introduced by Members. Mr Jarosław Szarek, President of the Institute of National Remembrance, is with us today. Would the President like to speak on the bill? [[President of the Institute of National Remembrance of the Criminal Investigation Commission against the Polish National Jarosław Szarek: Yes. Maybe referring to...]] Then we invite you, Mr. President, to the podium. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u279	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe I can answer the senator's question in a few sentences. The point is that certain documents which belong to the National Remembrance Institute by law have the status of being used. And the point is to sort it out so we can be their owners, formally, just like the bill says. And as for the whole thing, the essence of the changes that we're proposing, I think the senator has given this creature well. It is really about technical issues, about the minor technical issues that arise from the implementation of the law, from the many years already implemented. And in this spirit, we want to make these changes, to better comply with our law, to act in accordance with what this law imposes on us, and to carry out the mission that we carry out in accordance with the preamble of the Institute of National Remembrance.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u280	Senator Jan Rulewski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u281	Mr. President... [[Question.]] Yes, a question. Well, no, it's not just a technical change, because this law adds an article... 3a or 2 is depending on the wording of the bill. And my question is this: do you think that changing the definition of documents, including the definition of a person's activities, is a technical change, or is it a definition of the new nature of the activity of the person whose resources you collect? [[President of the Institute of National Remembrance of the Criminal Investigation Commission against the Polish National Jarosław Szarek: But... Could you clarify?]] In this bill, I mean. in these amended derivatives, the Orders Act and the Opposition Act add a definition of the documents which are necessary, necessary or a condition for granting the status of a person who does not function in the harvest as e.g. A secret co-worker. And do you think that's a change? It's just technical?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u282	Mr. Senator, the preamble to the Institute of National Remembrance... the reality in which we are located imposes an obligation on the Institute of National Remembrance. And so we understand our duty, our activity. A clear reference to this legacy after the Peerellian reality, after the totalitarian state. And one of the elements of this, the foundation, is the distinction between those who acted for the independent Polish state and were often oppressed, from those who fought against the nation's freedom aspirations, led by repression, were part of the apparatus of repression, enslavement of Poles also of the senator For several decades. It is as if the main being: clearly distinguish these people to whom honors are due, recognition of the independent Polish state 'Cause it's our duty. From those who did not act in favour of this independence and even carried on the opposite activity. This is, I think, the main thing: to clarify these matters.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u283	Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u284	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! I have a question about an article removed from the bill, art. 29a. It allowed to obtain, on request, certificates that the personal data of the person who submitted the application are not identical to the data of the persons who are in the catalogue of officers, collaborators, etc., which in some sense allowed to be cleared of any allegations. I think this article was a pedestal of the so-called. Wildstein's letters. The question is, why are we taking him out of here? Is it possible to define this elsewhere, i.e. Such activities Maybe not in such a form, but those that will lead to the same effect. Is there anything else at the root of this?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u285	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! Just wanting to sort things out... Namely, someone's on the list. Wildstein either didn't find himself, didn't decide that he was a secret co-worker or he wasn't. And that's how it's been treated. And that's what we need to sort out. Wildstein's list was not exhausted, generally speaking, full of information about the person in the archive resource of the Institute of National Remembrance.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u286	It's clear, Mr. President, I'm just saying that this article gave us the opportunity to defend against the infamy of being on the Wildstein list, not the person, but the same name. My name is Jerzy Czerwinski, and if there were six Jerzy Czerwinskis on the Wildstein list, I could defend myself by receiving such a certificate based on the article. 29a, and now that's not gonna happen. And here's the question. Perhaps somewhere else is such a possibility.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u287	Well, you always have the opportunity... [[Senator Stanisław Rooster: In court.]] [[Of course.]] ...presentations at the Institute of National Remembrance. Well, that was... We wanted to solve this.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u288	Thank you very much. Any more questions for the president? There isn't. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. President. Minister Magdalena Gawin is with us, Deputy Minister of Culture and National Heritage, General Monument Preserver Hello, Minister. Does the Minister wish to speak on the bill? No. Are there any questions for the Minister? There isn't. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm opening the discussion. And I'll ask Senator Jan Rulewski to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u289	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! President Szarek has confirmed in answer to my question that there is quite a significant change here in terms of determining candidates for decorations, including those resulting from the Act on opposition activists or the Orders Act. There is also a definition of the documents on the basis of which the President of the IPN decides whether or not to cooperate. This definition lists what documents are the basis for determining the applicant's participation in the operational acquisition of information, and states that such documents are considered to be registration aids, registration logs, archive inventories, registration cards and an integrated system of operational files of State security authorities if Okay, here's a note. They confirm the fact of registration. So if, in a nutshell, the security authorities voluntarily, without knowing this person And that's usually the case, because that's the essence of these organs, they put someone in the file, it's clearly recognised that these documents were produced with the help of the applicant. So we have a situation like this that's possible. It's not like I'm even... The first is the group that agreed to register, but did not take up business. There are known cases, and today you can talk about it. Here's the thing. We've been talking about this. A prominent activist who agreed to be entered in the register signed the relevant documents but did not take action. And then there's the second group. Behind the back of the person... these people were entered in the register. Those people didn't know anything about it, maybe even today they don't have any knowledge. The basis of court judgments is obviously not the case. There's a fact... Such a decision may be brought before the court. If the President considers that a citizen has been entered in the register without his knowledge... Of course, every citizen has the right to appeal to the court. The Court of First Instance generally examines not only the fact that there is a record, but also the actual steps taken and the consequences it has had on others. Or he finds that there are no such consequences. My amendment changes, Mr. President... The point is that the fact that registration logs, including records, cannot be considered sufficient cannot be considered sufficient. It seems sufficient and necessary to take action. So it's important. not only to be in the registers, but also to take action. Of course, this is a prudential clause. She's probably in line with the rule of law that says there can't be a conviction of someone who hasn't taken any action. Here you can say that he assumed that he was going to. But in contact with the SB In advance, we assume that it was a violent device, the citizen called, the forced had no chance of refusing at times. Not many people said no. Sometimes the documents were so formulated that they did not indicate that the citizen wanted to cooperate. The citizen signed for example. documents indicating that he will comply with the law, the legal order in force, that he will contact the authorities at the request of the authorities. But this does not mean that such a person has done the work that the representatives of the IPN are right to do here. The truth is, a lot of records have been kept. That's where I'd agree. But this formula doesn't respond. Records have been kept that indicate that the person, apart from being in the registers, has actually taken action, but the operating documents, that is, reports and reports, have been destroyed. Registers remain the only condition. I propose, Mr President, that the words "registration fact" replace words that speak of taking action. There's got to be a record effect. I present this amendment to the High House.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u290	Signed? [[Yes.]] Signed. Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that you have submitted a legislative proposal in writing to Senator Jan Rulewski. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the amendment tabled by the senator? How about the minister or the president? [[Voice from the Chamber: At the committee meeting.]] There you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u291	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator doesn't notice one thing, I mean. that there are also such cases that actually there is registration, there is information that someone has been registered for 5, 7, 30 years, there are many, many folders of cooperation, but they have been destroyed. The register is then the only place where evidence of this cooperation remains. And besides, the amendment you're proposing to the senator... I don't know, she's also legally hard to formulate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u292	Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much, Minister and President. Dear Senators, I would like to remind you that the points from the 12th to the 14th, as announced earlier, will be considered tomorrow. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on State aid proceedings. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1153, and the committee's report In print No 1153 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Wojciech Piecha, to submit a report to the committee. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u293	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to present a report by the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the Law adopted by the Sejm on 12 April 2019 amending the Law on State Aid Procedure. The Law amending the Law of 30 April 2004 on State aid proceedings is intended to: firstly, to bring the provisions into line with Regulation No 1407/2013 of the European Commission of 18 December 2013 on the application of Article. 107 and 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union for de minimis aid and Commission Regulation No 651/2014 of 17 June 2014 declaring certain types of aid compatible with the internal market pursuant to Article. 107 and 108 of the Treaty; secondly, to amend the information submitted by the applicants; thirdly, to change the manner in which the report is transmitted to the President of the OMC by the State aid granting undertakings; fourthly, to repeal Chapter 5 on State aid proceedings before the Court of Justice of the European Union by the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection and on State aid in agriculture or fisheries by the Minister responsible for agriculture; fifthly, the adaptation of the references contained in the amended act to the current provisions of Union law. As to the first point, i.e. Commission regulation... In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 5 of the amended act is repealed. 1 and 2 concerning the cumulation of de minimis aid. It should be noted that the rules on cumulation of aid are contained in the relevant Union rules laying down the conditions for granting public aid and it is therefore not necessary to lay down rules on cumulation of aid in the provisions of the amended law. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 2 of the amended law, applicants for de minimis aid as well as de minimis aid in agriculture or fisheries shall be required to present all certificates obtained, alternatively declarations of any de minimis aid in this agriculture or fishery. In line with the provisions of the Commission Regulation, both de minimis aid and de minimis aid in agriculture or fisheries and vice versa should be taken into account when calculating the de minimis aid granted to the trader. As regards Commission Regulation No 651 of 2014 now. Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the amended law clarifies that the bodies drawing up aid schemes providing for block exemption aid shall immediately inform the President of the Office or the Minister responsible for agriculture of the start of the aid scheme concerned and not, as yet, of the start of aid under the scheme. According to the article. 11 lit. and Commission Regulation No 651/2014, information on any aid measure exempted under that Regulation should be communicated to the Commission within 20 working days of its entry into force. And second point The scope of information to be provided by public aid applicants. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: paragraph 5 is added. 3ba, which obliges beneficiaries of de minimis aid in the case of so-called "de minimis aid'. automatic aid where the declaration, annual statement or other document does not show the value of the aid, to inform the granting entity of the de minimis aid. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 37 paragraph is added. 5a according to which, in the case of automatic aid, the beneficiary of the aid will submit the information referred to in Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, 2 or 5 of the Act, each with a declaration, with an annual statement or other document from which the value of the aid results. It should be noted that in the case of certain aid instruments, the trader can de facto benefit from these instruments without applying for them. With regard to the third paragraph, with regard to the obligation to report to the President of the OMC by public aid providers, it should be pointed out that the repeal in Article. Article 32 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 9 and 12 and amendment of paragraph 12. 10 results from the completion of the SHRIMP application in all aid providers. With regard to point 4 Chapter 5 on State aid proceedings before the Court of Justice of the EU will be repealed by the Act. The repealed provisions confer exclusive competence on the President of the OKIK in the conduct of the abovementioned proceedings and in the field of public aid in agriculture or fisheries The Minister responsible for agriculture. With regard to point 5 of the amendment to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, references to the relevant provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union have been updated and the name of the common market has been changed to the internal market. At the same time, the amended act updated the reference to the relevant provisions of Council of Europe Regulation 2015/1588 from the EU Council Regulation. The Commission proposes that the law be adopted without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u294	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn wishes to ask such a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u295	Unfortunately, I could not be at the committee meeting, and I wonder if during the committee's work you discussed the shape of the rules that allow us, the government, to be so wrong that we are designing, for example. subsidies for energy companies in the case of electricity prices, and then it turns out that this is illegal state aid. Was that the case, and was there any attempt to clarify the rules, not to do what is not allowed to be done?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u296	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u297	Senator, this was not the case at the committee meeting because this concerns micro, small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u298	Thank you very much. Does anyone else have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur? No. Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. The President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have Mr. Michael Holeks with us, Vice President of the Office. Would the President like to speak? [[Vice President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection Michał Holeksa: No, thank you.]] Thank you very much. We also have Minister Tadeusz Skobel, Deputy Minister of Energy. Are you the Minister of... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Tadeusz Skobel: No, thank you.]] Thank you. But the senators can now report from a place of no more than a minute of inquiry to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would anyone like to ask such a question? [[Mieczysław Augustyn.]] Mr Mieczysław Augustyn. Who's the question? [[The Minister of Energy.]] The Minister's office. Minister, I'd like to invite you to the speaker, because there will be a question for you, perhaps one or even more. I'm sorry, Minister, because you're up to the next point, but... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Tadeusz Skobel: Yes, but...]] ...if that's what you want... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Tadeusz Skobel: No, I don't want to. I understand I've been summoned to...]] [[I'd like to ask...]] [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Tadeusz Skobel: It's not me...]] It's the Minister who's up to the next point. To this point... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Tadeusz Skobel: Me to the next point. But, as I understand it, the question is to the next point. Or this?]] [[Well, you told the marshal that...]] I was wrong. I'm sorry. I was wrong. [[Voice from the room: You're the vice president.]] To this point, you're... [[I'm sorry, Minister.]] Excuse me, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Tadeusz Skobel: That's okay.]] Excuse me, sir. [[You're the first one asked.]] That's the next point. Mr. Michael Holeksa. Mr. President, you're welcome. Excuse me, Minister, but... [[Tired, isn't it?]] Yeah, I've been driving for about an hour, so... Please, Mr. Chairman. You're about to ask Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u299	Mr. President, Minister, I would very much like to ask... Although, as I hear it, it wasn't about the matter of this bill. But this isn't the first time... and this isn't just about this government and this proposal. Well, quite often we design some solutions, here, in parliament, often in dispute, whether it's right or wrong, decisions are made, and then it turns out that this is contested as illegal public aid. Are these provisions really that vague? And are we doing something about this, or are there any legislative proposals to minimize the risk that we will, as in the case of energy prices, propose rules that will then be questioned by the Commission?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u300	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u301	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Senator! Yes, indeed, it is not the subject of this law as to how it could be defined by the senator. The law dealt with completely different aspects. And at no stage of the work on the bill, neither in the parliamentary committees nor in the Senate, this was not the subject of the work. But every time there are parliamentary laws, they are usually the position of the government. And these positions of the government are certainly presented. And the laws that are proposed by the government are checked on a case-by-case basis in terms of unlawful state aid. And these laws, passing through the Permanent Committee of the Council of Ministers, by the Council of Ministers, shall be subject to such review. Therefore, if the law is proposed by the government... such verification shall be carried out every time, at every law. However, the rules are actually extremely complicated, very complicated matter, and it really requires a very important leaning on these issues.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u302	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the president? No. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Vice President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection Michał Holeksa: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up for this discussion. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the review of item 16 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Energy Consumption Information by Energy-using Products and on the control of the implementation of the programme for marking office equipment and certain other laws. The text of the Act in print No 1159, and the report of the committee In print No 1159 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Adam Gawada, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u303	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! I would like to present a report by the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on 12 April this year. a law amending the Act on Energy Consumption Information by Energy-using Products and on Control of the Implementation of Office Equipment Labelling Program and some other laws. The amended act aims at adapting the Polish legal order to the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 July 2017 establishing a framework for energy labelling and repealing the 2010 Directive. The purpose of this Regulation is to simplify the regulatory environment for Member States and economic operators and to harmonise the application and implementation of energy labelling rules for energy-related products throughout the European Union. The regulation, and therefore the law, clarifies and strengthens energy labelling rules and extends their scope, i.e. updates the energy label design, changes the scale of energy classes, establishes a two-module database of energy labelling products, clarifies the responsibilities of individual operators, strengthens the rules on enforcement of obligations, clarifies the links between energy labelling and harmonised standards. During the commission's work, the law did not raise any objections. No legislative proposals have been made. The High Commission requests the adoption of a law without amendment. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u304	Thank you. Currently, the senators may submit questions to the Senator of the rapporteur. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Energy has been authorized to present the position of the government. Would a government representative, Mr Tadeusz Skobel, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy, like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Tadeusz Skobel: No, thank you very much.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questions to a government representative. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Yes? Senator Augustine and Senator Piecha. There you go, Mr. Senator. Minister, you're welcome to the stand.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u305	Minister, I'm not going to do anything here that I'm going to say, bridge and look for an excuse, it's not a question about the bill, but we're all interested. We know from media reports that the European Commission did not agree to the form of subsidies that would cushion the rise in energy prices for entrepreneurs. What's next, Minister? They're asking us, probably everyone, entrepreneurs, we'd like to know.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u306	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! In fact, this is not the scope of this law that we are talking about, but because I understand this interest that the senator is expressing, so I'm going to tell you what the situation is like right now. We are in constant contact with the European Union, we are exchanging comments on those provisions which are the subject of the law and also the regulation, and I am convinced that we will close this process in May. [[But how, you don't know?]] Like I said, the work is still going on and the talks are still going on. It's not a closed topic yet.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u307	You're asking Senator Piech a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u308	Minister, I have two questions, short. How much electricity do we produce per year, and what will be the savings for implementing this law?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u309	We We produce about 200 TWh of this energy, and we consume about 165.170. The annual savings are about 5TWh, we estimate them for this size.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u310	Are there any further questions for the Minister? [[There isn't.]] No one's checking in. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Tadeusz Skobel: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. None of your senators, your senators, have signed up. The discussion is closed. I inform you, for the record, that Senator Łuczak made his speech in the minutes. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I'll have the Senate adjourned by 9 a.m. tomorrow. Now please read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u311	High Senate, the meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the examination of the applications submitted to the Act amending the Law on State aid in the raising of children and certain other laws will take place on 9 May at 8.45 p.m. in room 182. And the second message. The meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions on the consideration of amendments tabled at the 70th Senate meeting to the Act amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance, the Commission on the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish National and some other laws will take place on 9 May at 8.45 in room No 217. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-08-senat-78-1.u312	Thank you. It's adjourned. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 19 minutes 36]]
