ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u1	Marshal Elżbieta Witek invites parliamentarians to show the holiday mapping of the Sejm building in front of the main entrance. The project will take place today from 3 p.m. 16 to the end of the meeting and tomorrow at 10 p.m. 16.23. In addition, I would like to inform you that today there will be meetings of the Commission: - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 10.30, - Poselska etiquette - hour. 10.30, - Senior policy - h.m. 13, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 13, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 13, - Foreign Affairs - hour 14, - Infrastructure - hour 2.30 p.m., - Public Finance - hour. 2.30 p.m., - Health-- hour. 15, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 15, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 16, - Public Finance - hour. 16, - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 4:30 p.m., - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 17. In addition, the following meetings of the teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Protection of Animals, Rights of Owners of Animals and Development of Polish Agriculture - h.m. 10, - Parliamentary Group for: Metropolitan Unions - hour 10, - Parliamentary Team for Life and Family - hour 10.15, - Parliamentary Group on Equalisation of the LGBT+ Community - h.m. 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Territorial Defence Forces - h.m. 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Transport infrastructure in Lower Silesia - hour 12.30, - Parliamentary Energy and Climate Team - h.m. 13, - Parliamentary Group for: Oncology - hour 13.30, - Parliamentary Group for Migration and Integration Policy - h.m. 15, - Parliamentary Group for: Waste management, Recycling and Development of Warm Economy 15, - Parliamentary Group for: Environment, Energy and Climate - hour 16, - Parliamentary Group for: Safety of Protective Vaccines Children and Adults - h. 17. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u2	Thank you, sir. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice has withdrawn the notification of the current information. Therefore, item 17 of the agenda has become pointless. The group of Members submitted a draft law amending the Act on personal income tax and the Act on corporate income tax, print No 68. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the first reading of this project. The Council of Ministers has submitted draft laws: - the State Inspection of Plant Protection and Seed Protection, - for the protection of plants against pests. The projects are in prints No 63 and 62 respectively. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the first reading of these draft laws. The Council of Ministers has submitted Self-correction to the government bill amending the Civil Procedure Code Act and some other laws, print no. 45-A. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point including the first reading of this draft law together with the self amendment. The competent committees have submitted a report on the draft Parliamentary Law amending certain laws in order to facilitate the eradication of infectious animal diseases, print No 93. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. Objection! There's an objection. Excuse me, we're just gonna wait a minute, 'cause somebody else is making a card. We'll be voting in a moment. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Formal applications will be made, ladies and gentlemen. Your Marshal, but the formal proposals are on the agenda. In view of the opposition raised against the application of the Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The 3rd Rules of Procedure of the Sejm will settle this matter in a vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of the ladies... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] There will be formal requests, ladies and gentlemen. We're voting! So sit down and vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of saying... Just a moment, Marshal. Your Marshal, your formal conclusions! Madam President, there will be formal proposals. Read the rules! They'll be in regular mode, believe me. They'll be here in a minute. Formal application to reject all formal applications. Who among the ladies and gentlemen... [[Game in the O.R.]] Can we vote now? Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of agreeing to the application of the Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, he will raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 394 Members voted. 206 was for, against - 188, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the offer. Copy that. Sorry. A group of Members submitted a draft law amending the Law on the System of General Courts, the Law on the Supreme Court and some other laws, print No 69. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, there was opposition to the proposal to complete the agenda for the first reading of this project. This is, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to complete the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on the system of common courts, the Law on the Supreme Court and some other laws, print no. 69, will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? The card doesn't work. Who doesn't it work for, ladies and gentlemen? We'll see about that. Doesn't it work for you? Can you see if it's working for you? Check it out. 394 Members voted. It was 201, 193 against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the offer. Sir, is it working now? Excuse me, sir, is it working? Yes. The Sejm Bureau proposes that in discussions on the items added to the agenda, the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. Objection. Objection. About what? What about the time? 15 minutes. At which point? And about the limit. At which point? In front of the Supreme Court? Law on the system of courts. You don't want them to be five minutes, do you? You want more time, right? 15. Okay, we're gonna vote this out in a minute. It's against the law. Your marshal, if you'd let us... It's against the law. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u3	Mrs. Marshal! I'm filing a counterclaim. Let's stay at five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u4	We're gonna vote it out. Ten, Mr. Marshal. Your Marshal... Ladies and gentlemen, please. Because she fell... But, Marshal, I have the right... Are they equal and equal? No, sir. You're the only one who's objecting, and there's been a motion against... Your Marshal... Okay, sir. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u5	Mrs. Marshal! If we're making an application, I think we have the right to justify it if the marshal doesn't even know what he's against. [[Applause]] I thought you said no. We're talking about the agenda. And the point is that those who watch us, too, know what we're talking about. We're talking about the fact that the most important law, one of the most important laws, the law on the judicial system, is to be prosecuted in the Sejm with a limit of questions, Your Marshal. You're a woman's boxer, what do you know? Just now, parliamentarians signed up for questions. You don't even know that you're signing up because your marshal introduced a limit on questions and only a limited number of Members can speak from each club. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Scandal! And you want Mr. Marshal Terlecki to wish that the debate, the whole debate that thousands of people were on the streets yesterday... Millions. Millions of solids. It lasted five minutes. And we want this debate to last more than five minutes. [[Touchdown, applause]] And this vote is so that you, the public, the Poles know that we want a real debate, not a five-minute debate. Thank you. [[Applause]] You're aggressive.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u6	Thank you, sir. However, I would like to refer to what the Member was talking about by shouting to me from the jury: No, sir, not your marshal. There was a meeting of the Sejm Bureau, there was no objection, the Senior Convention was also informed about it, so please be precise. [[Applause]] We proceed with the vote on the proposal of the Sejm Bureau. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal from the Bureau of the Sejm to listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in the discussion on this item would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 399 Members voted. 204 was for, 195 against, no one stopped. The Sejm's proposal was accepted by the Bureau. We now have formal proposals, ma'am, seven formal proposals. As the first Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz. Member, 1 minute. You're welcome. For formal applications there were always 2 minutes. Mr President, that is not true.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u7	A formal application under the Rules of Procedure should be considered first, Your Marshal. Madam President, this is not the first time we have voted and we are talking about formal proposals, and every time it was 1 minute. That's not true. It's not like every time. Mrs. Marshal! At this point, we are dealing with one of the most powerful attacks on the independence of the justice system. [[The joy, the excitement in the room.]] This attack took the form of a disciplinary act for judges. I request a recess and that you oblige the Ministry of Justice to disclose whether this Repressive Act has not been prepared to be a project designed to ensure impunity for PiS politicians - a series of issues that we learn about, from Banas' scandal, through the prison law. We need to know this because if this Repressive Act is passed, the courts will simply turn into toys in the hands of PiS politicians, and the PiS politicians will become an unpunished caste out of law. This bill blows up. (Applause) the foundation of an independent justice system goes in a completely opposite direction than the case law of the EU Court, undermines the fundamental principles on which the European Union is based. And if the PiS doesn't stop this front charge on the courts now, [[♪ The bell ♪]] it will push Poland away from the European Union. [[Applause]] Time's up.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u8	Thank you, Member. The Member has made a formal request for a break, which we will vote on. The formal application shall comply with the rules of procedure. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of announcing a break, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 401 Members voted. 194 was in favor, against - 205, 2 abstained. I conclude that the claim was rejected. Oh, they lost again. The second formal proposal - Barbara Dolniak, Civic Coalition. You're welcome. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u9	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am making a formal application pursuant to Article. Paragraph 184. 1 and 3 paragraph 1 about the announcement of an hour's break and call... There's already been a motion. ... The Senior Convention to present to the Convention, and then to the whole Sejm, the reasons why your Marshal did not apply the article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 8 Rules of Procedure according to which it may refer a draft law to the Legislative Commission in order to express an opinion... But he doesn't have to. I said, "Maybe, sir." Don't yell and don't disturb me. ...may refer to the Legislative Board... You're gonna tell the marshal what to do? ...with the purpose of expressing an opinion, having... Are you going to decide for the marshal? ...in view of the fact that both external opinions, e.g. The Supreme Court or the Ombudsman, as well as, above all, the Sejm Analysis Offices, speak of the fact that there are records in this bill that may violate the principle of judicial independence. I quote: "These records give rise to a serious risk of a breach of the principle of independence and impartiality of the judiciary." [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why didn't your Marshal refer this law to the Legislative Commission, even though very often, especially as regards opposition projects, has this provision been permanently used? [[Applause]] Because he doesn't have to. That's why.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u10	Thank you, Member. As you said yourself, the marshal can. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, because this is the same proposal as the one we voted on earlier, because it was a request for a break, I will not put it to the vote. Very good. With a formal proposal from Mr Jacek Czerniak, Lewis. You're welcome. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u11	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I request a formal request for a break and a meeting of the Seniors Convention to complete the agenda for information from the President of the Council of Ministers about the last Council of the European Union. Once again Poland has announced success without entering into decisions that concern 2050 and climate neutrality. I would like the High House to be informed if, at this stage, we can benefit from the Solidarity Fund of PLN 100 billion, whether we will be covered by this assistance, and what is the multiannual financial framework for cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy. Since the Prime Minister has declared his success - as the only country we have not accepted these commitments - I ask you very much to call the Senior Convention and complete today's agenda for this information. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u12	Thank you, sir. I just wanted to let you know that this matter was discussed just a moment ago at the meeting of the Sejm Bureau and the Senior Convention. I wanted to inform the High House that I sent a request to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki on the same day that I received the request, which was the day before yesterday, to respond and possibly set a deadline for presenting this information. Thank you very much. I ask Mr Adam Szłapka, the Civic Coalition - also a formal proposal. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u13	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. Paragraph 184. Point 1 (3) shall be formally requested to interrupt and convene the Seniors' Convention in order to amend the agenda of the Sejm. He was just here. A break to give you a chance to fulfil your commitment to the meeting of the Sejm Bureau on 5 December this year, when you committed yourself, said that you wanted to clarify the matter with Mr Banasi's colleague, and that there would be information in the Sejm of Minister Kaminski on this matter, and that there would be a meeting of the Special Services Commission earlier. [[Applause]] It didn't happen. There was a meeting on the 12th and the Special Service Committee was convened tomorrow at 12:00 p.m. 13, when there's a vote. So I have the right to presume that you deliberately did not lead to a meeting of the Special Services Commission on this matter. Your determination to hide this case shows how big it is. That's your business. We have the right to presume that Krakow pimps not only call Banas, but maybe they still call Sasin. Thank you. This is your case, your case... Thank you, sir. ...and your scams. [[Touchdown, applause]] Bravo! That's enough!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u14	I would ask you very much, sir... Mr President, I would very much ask you to weigh your words. At the Senior Convention meeting, when we talked about this, I listened to this press conference, the Convention meeting and the Bureau, when we discussed this issue, and I said that I had sent proposals - both proposals, because there were two - to the Committee on Special Services. I said the Minister will be at this committee. I gave you an approximate date because then I thought it would be the 18th. As I hear, it's set at 20, and I assure you, this committee will not be sitting at the time of the vote. I'm sure this will change, so please don't put it in my mouth... Mr President, please do not put any obligations into my mouth. But he's telling the truth, Marshal. Excuse me, Marshal. I'll ask for a corrigendum, your mistakes... No, you said... I know what I said. I said if... Your mistakes are misunderstood... Sit down! I understand, sir. Believe me, I understand perfectly. No need to straighten up, thank you very much. Please, Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Coalition. It's also a formal conclusion. One minute, sir. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u15	Mrs. Marshal! I think, Marshal, that you, too, are not satisfied with the course of these mornings... the beginning of these proceedings. But because we expect Parliament to be a place where we will really debate. Your marshal, you say there will be an explanation, but after all, Banas's case is two weeks. Two weeks, and we don't have an explanation. [[Applause]] Your Marshal has just informed us that she has asked the Prime Minister when he will be able to come to Parliament so that he can report to Parliament what he has decided at the summit. What's this? And at the summit, he's the only one who doesn't participate in important politics. But the conclusion... He didn't consult anyone, he didn't consult anyone. In front of Parliament... But the conclusion! He has not received Parliament's consent to such a decision and does not feel obliged even to come and to inform Parliament why he made such a decision at the summit. Your Marshal, we expect you to not only be nice to us, but that you will make Parliament exercise real control over the government. Because that's our constitutional role. And PiS is trying to get away from it, and you're trying not to let that happen. [[Applause]] Thank you, sir. Thank you very much for this comment, Mr President. I wanted to tell you that I... I hope you'll accept her, not just thank her. No, sir, I must first of all address the Prime Minister of the Government because I know the Sejm calendar, but I do not know the government's work calendar and the Prime Minister's calendar. I expect, Mr President, as much as you do, that we will get this information as soon as possible. I made that request... Madam Marshal, the Prime Minister is a Member, and it is his duty to be in the Seym as the Sejm's deliberations are.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u16	But he's also the Prime Minister. I don't know the Prime Minister's activity. There has been no formal proposal, Mr President. Mr President, there has been no formal proposal, and we will therefore not vote because we have nothing to talk about. Responsibility. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. You're welcome, sir. It's a formal conclusion, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u17	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 I would like to address you in accordance with art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Because we are requesting that the agenda be supplemented with information on the effects of the last European Council, including on climate neutrality by 2050, but also on the medium-term objectives by 2030, where the medium-term objectives are raised or planned to rise, these medium-term objectives to almost 55% Reduction. And also on the subject of the multiannual financial framework, because this was also the subject of the debate, and this has a huge impact on all these objectives, which are precisely defined in terms of climate neutrality by 2050. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u18	Thank you, sir. Just a moment ago, I explained it. Therefore, we will not vote on this proposal because this proposal is the same as the first request for a break. I ask Mr Krzysztof Laughing of the Left. There you go, one minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u19	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We're dealing with a hucpa today. With a hucpa not only at the legislative level, but also laughing in the face of the whole society. Yesterday at an hour. 23.14 a draft law on the common courts and the Supreme Court has entered into force. How can we, on behalf of the nation, work on such a law if we have a few hours to prepare for it? Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I would also like to thank those thousands of people who protested yesterday and are protesting before the courts today. [[Applause]] They defend our democracy and the three divisions of power. It's thanks to you that we feel Here strength and today we will fight for every comma in this bill. Marshal, I ask you to order a recess and call the Senior Convention. Ha, ha, ha! We need to talk seriously about the agenda of the Sejm's meetings and remove this shameful bill from the agenda. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Mr President, I just wanted to correct it, because it is not that the proposal has come in now. Seven days earlier, according to the regulations, he came in and everyone... It came out yesterday... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u20	No, no, sir. 7 days earlier, according to the regulations, he was on the sejm pages and you were able to get acquainted with him. But you don't know what this bill is supposed to look like yet. Liar! So be precise. Okay, we're not gonna change, so I'm not gonna announce a break either, because that's also the same conclusion. And the autofixes? I am now asking Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Coalition, also with a formal proposal. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u21	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Yet the law of muzzle, the Repressive Law was not passed by the Sejm, and we already have a letter from the national prosecutor Bogdan Święczkowski dated 16 December to regional prosecutors on the opening of proceedings against judges who apply the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. [[Applause]] Bogdan Święczkowski, ladies and gentlemen, elected from the list of Law and Justice... He's not an envoy. Don't lie to me! ...writes to the prosecutors that whenever the status of judge is questioned, prosecutors must apply to disciplinary officials of the general courts and the disciplinary officer of the Supreme Court. Ladies and gentlemen! I understand that you have absolutely no need for this bill because you are already breaking the law and the backbones of prosecutors who want to be independent, independent and free from the influence of PiS power. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u22	Thank you very much, sir. There was no conclusion. Please make a formal request to Mrs Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bąk, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u23	Mrs. Marshal! I ask for a formal request for an adjournment, a convening of the Seniors Convention and supplementing the agenda for information from the Prime Minister on the Marian Banasi affair. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I mean, there were these conclusions. There were votes. Both the Polish public and this House deserve information on one of the biggest issues of recent years, [[Applause]] The man who runs one of the most important public institutions... You're all Banas. ...which reveals further government issues. The fact that you are starting another battle with the justice system does not relieve you of your obligation to inform the public of what is happening in the Supreme Audit Chamber. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u24	Thank you, Member. We will not vote on a proposal that has been tabled for probably the eighth time and thus on a request for a break. There was a meeting of the Senior Convention, there was a meeting of the Sejm Bureau and there was a set order. It's about Banasia! When are they gonna explain the Banasi case? Please, another formal proposal is made by Mr Przemysław Koperski, Left. You're welcome, sir. Young people have to show up.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u25	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I request a recess, a convocation of the Seniors Convention, and an introduction to the agenda of the subject, [[Joy in the Chamber]] who's really touching all of us. Ladies and gentlemen! If we do not want 1 January - although we already have real Italian temperatures - to have in the Polish cities of the second Naples, we should immediately address the topic of BDO and waste management. Ladies and gentlemen! If these regulations do not change, on 1 January thousands of companies that export municipal waste from our homes, from our homes, will not carry out these tasks. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Please put this item on the agenda. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u26	Mr President, this project is already on the committee. I'm not announcing a break for the same reason I just served. Please, two more formal applications. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska from the Left. You're welcome, my fellow Member. Time-- one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u27	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm addressing you in the Article mode. Article 187 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 3 o calling for a break during which... Calling a break? Where did she go? Where did that break go? ... The Senior Convention will change the decision of the Marshal - or your Marshal will consider changing his decision - on reducing the number of Members who may speak in the debate on common courts. Yesterday in Poland tens of thousands of Poles and Poles gathered on the streets of more than 200 cities. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] They expect a serious debate on this project in this House. Meanwhile, we are prevented from speaking. Me and my colleagues sitting in the Chamber cannot enroll in the debate and tell us what the Polish and Polish think about this bill because your marshal took our voice today. It's just unacceptable. This is a disgrace. [[Applause]] Marshal speaking. It is unacceptable, Madame, for you to introduce... I ask that Members and Members be given the opportunity to speak on this issue. Madam President, it is unacceptable that what you are saying is misleading. Exactly. It wasn't your marshal, it was the Sejm Bureau's decision. The Convention has given it an unreserved opinion. In that case, I'm filing a motion... [[The Marshal disables the microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u28	The Convention has given an unreserved opinion on this decision, so please do not mislead those who listen to us. This is not a Marshal's decision. Thank you, Member. Please take the floor with your final formal motion... ...I reported to this point at all, so I... That is why we voted on this point, Mr President. Right? Ladies and gentlemen, the Member has drawn attention to what has happened. There was a motion for rejection and we voted on it. That's right, you're gonna tell me we were against it. Ladies and gentlemen, it was at the Convention meeting, and it did, yes. Please do not mislead that there was an agreement. I now ask Mr Tomasz to speak on the formal proposal. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u29	Mrs. Marshal! On the basis of the article. 184 I would like to ask you to change the way in which the proceedings are conducted. I would like to draw your attention, ladies and gentlemen, to the fact that in such an important debate that we have before us, each club has at its disposal 15 questions. Please note that the Law and Justice Club has 235 people and asks 15 questions. Thank God. The Civic Coalition Club has 134 people and asks 15 questions, the Left Club has 49 people, asks 15 questions, PSL - 30 people, asks 15 questions. The Confederation has 11 people and has the right to ask 15 questions. Mrs. Marshal! I have a favor to ask of you. You spoke during your speech when we called you a marshal, that you would give us the opportunity to hold a debate in Parliament. Your Marshal, I ask you to change and bring this... We have four questions. ...so that at least 45 members of parliament can speak out of larger clubs, since 15 of them can speak. It's my request, and it's all at the same time. [[♪ The bell ♪]] My request for you. I'm asking you, ma'am, if you don't mind. [[Applause]] determine the number of questions asked in proportion to the size of the clubs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u30	Thank you, sir. I cannot put this proposal to the vote because this is a formal proposal for a vote without discussion. Mr President, there were three proposals: 30, 40 and 50 questions. We've decided 52 questions, and we've agreed to that. But clubs have different numbers of MPs, your marshal. But the Confederation doesn't have 11 questions, because apparently, I heard it had 11 questions. Your marshal, in corrigendum mode. The Confederation has one question, not 11, sir. Thank you very much. We have concluded the vote on the formal proposals. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act and the Corporate Income Tax Act (Print No 68). I ask Mr Marcin Porzuck to present the reasons for the bill. I ask you, in order to allow me to speak to you, I would very much like to ask you to silence the discussions, possibly to move them to the cockroaches, and that Members interested in this item on the agenda please take their seats. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u31	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In recent years, we have seen a strong impact of technological and business trends on the energy and automotive sectors. Both sectors of the economy need to grow dynamically, taking into account innovation. The emphasis on reducing greenhouse gas emissions, the constant improvement of energy storage technologies or the growing popularity and efficiency of alternative fuels lead to new solutions. The government has developed a number of documents to support the development of electromobility and alternative fuels in the field of transport. The tools for financing these positive changes have also been developed. One of them is the Low Emission Transport Fund, which aims to support the development of electromobility, infrastructure, alternative fuels and the market for these fuels. An important element of the Fund's activities will be the provision of support to individuals and entrepreneurs for the purchase of electric vehicles. Under the current rules, support from the Fund is subject to taxation, both in the case of natural persons and entrepreneurs. The current exemptions do not apply to the appropriations paid by the State special-purpose fund, the Low-carbon Transport Fund. The aim of this project is to introduce changes which will result in the most efficient use of the Fund's resources. In line with the proposed project, we propose a tax exemption for PIT and CIT support provided by the Fund, which will increase the number of projects supported and subsequently implemented by entrepreneurs and the number of electric vehicles purchased by citizens. This solution is consistent with the tax exemptions in force for beneficiaries of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management programmes aimed at improving energy efficiency and reducing emissions of dust and other pollutants into the atmosphere, including exemption from the tax of subsidies received under the "Clean Air' and "My current' programmes. Supporting the implementation of electromobility by increasing the expenditure financed by the exemption of income tax subsidies will increase interest in the forms of support offered and the efficient use of subsidies, thereby reducing emissions of harmful substances to the environment. High Izbo! I hope that the proposed changes will be supported by all the political environments. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u32	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Kazimierz Smolinski will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u33	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the club Law and Justice on the parliamentary draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act and the Corporate Income Tax Act, print No. 68. The proposal provides for the amendment of the Act of 26 July 1991 on personal income tax and the Act of 15 February 1992 on corporate income tax. The amendment introduces an exemption from income tax for benefits, in particular grants and amounts of loan waivers financed by the Low Carbon Transport Fund - added point 129b of Article. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Act on personal income tax and point 60 of Article. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Corporate Income Tax Act, which is contained in Article. 1 and 2 projects. In the current legal state, these benefits they are subject to general income taxation rules and therefore constitute the income of persons or entities receiving such benefits and are not exempt from income tax either on the basis of the Personal Income Tax Act or on the basis of the Corporate Income Tax Act. The proposed law provides for the introduction of an income tax exemption, both from natural persons and from legal persons, financed by the Fund. This solution is consistent with the existing exemptions implemented by the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management to improve air quality in our country. According to the designers, the exemption introduced will have a positive impact on the increase in use, among others. low-carbon vehicles and will contribute to the dissemination and acceleration of market transformation towards further reducing emissions of harmful substances and improving air quality in Poland. As the proposed law is beneficial for the public finance sector and does not affect the budgets of local government units, the Law and Justice Club will support this draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u34	Thank you very much. Mrs Leszczyna asked for a rescinding of her speech, and Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, on behalf of the parliamentary club of the Left, will speak at the moment. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u35	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! It seems that the bill presented only applies to tax-related matters, because these are the only opinions added to the bill, to the Tax Act. The truth is that there is a very important question here, namely the development of electromobility in Poland. This topic is particularly important for us, for the Left, because it is about protecting the environment, reducing emissions of pollutants, gases, and therefore we are very positive about this type of action. And just to be clear, three years ago, the Prime Minister promised that by 2025 there would be 1 million electric cars in Poland. Even then, it didn't seem real. Life shows that of course this is not real and that this goal will not be met. However, in this respect we must do everything as a Polish government, Polish authorities, in order to develop electromobility in Poland. The issue of this bill is the last thing in this chain of development of electromobility, because it is the abolition of the tax on amounts that will be subsidies when buying electric cars. In order for an electric car to be purchased, we have to go through many different processes. First of all, when it comes to the production of electric cars, today we have to ask, at what stage is the design of the Polish electric car, which we announced a few years ago, we have to ask what is going on with the factories which were to produce electric buses, which in this act are so important, I am talking about the act on electromobility, which is so important when it comes to public transport. Of course, there is still much to be done in this regard. And here we call for these actions to be accelerated, because the Act on Electromobility of 2018 has already been amended - it has been changed in many points - and the dates that were written there have been shifted. So this is action on the state side, on the legislative side, on our side. On the other hand, we have two very important players who must participate in this process, and which, in my view today, are in no way supported in this regard. The first group is self-government. Now, in addition to imposing responsibilities on local governments, as they are to build charging stations, they are to prepare plans for the development of electromobility, in reality, in this difficult situation, financial support is absolutely needed. These must be actions that will be supported by budget money, otherwise we will not do it. Today, the local government has to deal primarily with the school, sidewalk, pipeline, and only the last position is the development of electric car charging stations in a given municipality, or the purchase of these cars, because the Act on electromobility, even the amended one, imposes the obligation to purchase 10% rolling stock in local governments as rolling stock which will be electric. The second group, which is very important in all of this, are energy companies. And there's a lot of work to be done here. Today we have the impression that, as far as electromobility is concerned, this is an issue that is simply and exclusively a burden for energy companies. No one is de facto doing this, no one is preparing the infrastructure, but energy infrastructure is needed for the charging station. In this respect, the need for legal solutions, the need for a decision of the President of the Energy Regulatory Office, the need to include all these costs in the tariffs of an energy company, because without financial resources it will not be possible to build a car charging station. To conclude, we have 6,000 today. Electric cars. Everything must be done to ensure that in 2030, as planned, these electric cars driving on Polish roads are more than 0.5 million. And this bill, which gives you the opportunity to buy these cars, goes in the right direction, but without all the elements that we talked about here (the bell), we will not solve this problem. We will support the referral of this project to committee work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u36	Thank you very much, sir. Another Member is Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Club PSL - Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u37	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 also joins those who see sense in the procedated bill. In fact, we have a great problem, above all, with the state of the air, especially in larger centres, resulting from the increasing volume of traffic of vehicles, these vehicles, which unfortunately still emit a lot of pollution. Despite ambitious intentions, the plans of electric vehicles still do not appear on the streets of Polish cities. They are the beams of those moving on them. In order to actually improve this situation, a system of incentives is needed, including in terms of tax policy. It seems that this solution, which was presented in the bill presented, meets these expectations, above all, as I said, expectations of Poles who see such a need. There is a high percentage of acceptance for changing this image in large cities when it comes to electric vehicles. As my previous speaker said, a very important element is collective transport. These changes will not occur unless there is a system of incentives and support at the tax stage. So, as I pointed out at the outset, our club is in favour of adopting the proposed amendment act. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u38	Thank you very much, sir. Since we have at this hour, at the hour. 10.50, scheduled break for the fee meeting, I'm managing the break by 10:00 p.m. 12.30. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 mins 50 hrs 12 min 40]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 18 of the agenda. Mrs Izabela Leszczyna, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u39	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! A few days before the end of the year, we are discussing a tax bill. While this Law introduces a tax exemption from natural persons and legal persons who will benefit from the Low-Emission Transport Fund, the tax system should be stable and the changes made should be thought out rather than chaotic, should be adopted in advance, never by the Parliamentary Law. It is the government that is responsible for the budget and the tax revenue and Members should not make any changes to the tax system. In your case, everything is just, chaotic, thoughtless, unstable. In fact, you should have introduced this release the moment you introduced the Low Carbon Transport Fund. You should have known by then that you wanted to exempt subsidies under this income tax fund. You put it in a few days before the end of the year. There's no Senate meeting this year. And two things that need to be said about this bill. First of all, this is a pretty shoddy tax exemption, because first you introduced a fee, a substitute fee, to raise funds for this fund, and then you exempt subsidies from this fund. It was necessary not to raise these taxes at all, not to introduce these 40 new danins or not to raise danin in the previous 4 years of its governments. And one more thing - the number of special funds. No one, no government, has ever set up as many special funds as the PiS has set up in the last four years. Why? Because you're taking these funds out of a stabilizing spending rule. You lie to society, spend more than you should spend. That's why the Civic Coalition Club will propose a bill right after the New Year that stabilizes the spending rule so that you can't unpunishedly borrow the next generations. And every time you want to go around that rule, we'll remind you of it. [[Applause]] It would also be worth asking about the funds of this fund. Last year, you were going to run competitions with the Low-carbon Transport Fund, because I understand that if there are no million electric cars, you invented the fund, just like you invented the Ministry of Climate to go to the top of the European Union a week later and say that you have a climate in your nose. It's the same with this fund, you invented the fund, you ripped people up so there would be some money in it, but you can't even run competitions that would allow citizens, businesses or individuals to use this fund. Of course, we will not be against this law, but I will repeat once again: finally learn to introduce laws, especially tax laws, in a manner consistent with legislative technique. You will never learn to manage you, and I hope you will not have time for this, but at least learn to manage the Seym. We learned about this bill a few hours before the Sejm meeting. You can't prosecute tax laws if you have half an hour to read the bill, not to mention the justification. Because it says there's no loss in the state budget, only there's no expected benefits. And this is the language you're using to manipulate everything, lie to citizens, pretend to do something good, while once again you're just thinking about one thing: how to introduce facade solutions to cover your inability to rule. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u40	Six ladies and gentlemen have joined the question. I close the list of Members who have been asked questions. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. Mr Michał Szczerba, the Civic Coalition Club. There's no envoy. Mr Konrad Frysztak, the Civic Coalition Club. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] You are Mr Michael Szczerba. You're welcome, sir. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u41	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are talking about the Low-Emission Transport Fund, but this is also an opportunity, High Izbo, to quote the promises of Prime Minister Morawiecki. Prime Minister Morawiecki said that by 2025 a million electric cars will be driving on Polish roads. What are the facts, High Izbo? At the moment, 7 thousand people drive on Polish roads. electric vehicles or plug-in hybrids. This is another fantasy of Moravian Prime Minister. It shows how he treats his promises, promises. In the current strategy of sustainable transport by 2030, it is already changing this million electric cars to how much? For 600,000. - not by 2025, but by 2030. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a late project (the bell) which does not allow the announcements to be carried out and, at the same time, the parliamentary project submitted without proper public consultation, written on the knee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u42	Mr Konrad Frysztak, Civic Coalition. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u43	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! During the presentation of this project I drew attention to the statement that it does not in any way concern self-government, it does not burden the self-government. That's not true, because tax exemption doesn't mean that. If we want to meet this commitment for at least 0.5 million cars in 2030, it will be necessary to build a charging fuel station, to buy transport. Who's gonna do it? It's gonna be a burden on the government. It's pretty much like with the teacher's raises, they're supposed to be on September 1st. And I hear that only in Warsaw there are 200 million for teachers, for teachers' salaries. If it is to be similar, the local government will actually carry out these climate protection tasks, not the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u44	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u45	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Where are the electric vehicles promised by Prime Minister Morawiecki? Was there supposed to be 0.5 million cars? Where are they? I can't tell. Income tax exemption will not solve the problem of the development of electromobility in Poland. What about the electric charging stations? Are you going to cede this task again for local government units and do not transfer funds for this purpose? Why is such an important bill once again a parliamentary act? What about the public consultation? Traditionally, you're used to any quality. This is the law in this House during the PiS rule. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u46	Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u47	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The government informed that 19 billion PLN would be available for the development of electromobility by 2020. We're about to have 2020. This programme, this appropriation was intended to cover two flagship programmes to improve electromobility, i.e. for buses in public transport and electric cars. The Ministry of Energy also planned to set up by 2020. 32 isolated throughout Poland, in specific agglomerations 400 fast charging points. Plus, 600 points of normal power were to be made available. I would like to ask what is the state of implementation of these announcements when it comes to electromobility. What are the real financing instruments for low-carbon public transport today? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u48	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please address the Secretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets, Mr. Adam Gawada. This isn't the Ministry of Finance?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u49	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to point out very strongly that the government fully supports the proposed change in the tax laws, as it is part of our government's entire efforts to improve air quality and protect the environment. Following the establishment of the new Council of Ministers, an inventory of all development and assistance programmes has been commissioned to support measures to reduce transport emissions. The verification has been subject to the existing assumptions and the amounts of support offered. It was considered necessary to simplify the procedures for seeking support for the development of low- and zero-carbon transport and to reduce excessive fiscalisation. The proposed amendments are therefore in line with these guidelines, since the introduction of the proposed tax exemptions for both individuals and businesses will make more effective use of the funds collected. With regard to the topics discussed here and the issues put forward, which concern the support of local authorities, I would like to inform you that according to the provisions of the Act on electromobility and alternative fuels of local government units, whose population exceeds 50,000, they draw up an analysis of the costs and benefits of providing urban transport services using zero-emission transport. The analysis is cyclically performed, i.e. every 36 months. The document is drawn up with public participation in a public consultation. The first such analyses were carried out by 31 December 2018. More than 60 analyses provided show that most local authorities are interested in purchasing zero-emission buses, but some funding is necessary for them. The needs of local authorities identified in these analyses could be financed by the Low Carbon Transport Fund. The Low Emission Transport Fund was established in 2018. The scope of projects that can be supported is very wide. It includes initiatives related to both the development of electromobility and transport based on alternative fuels such as CNG, LNG or hydrogen, i.e. modern fuels of the future. Self-governments will be able to receive support for the development of low-carbon public transport and the creation of the necessary infrastructure for charging or refueling. It is also important to stress that local government units will be able to receive support from this fund for the purchase of low-carbon vehicles. This support will provide important support for the implementation of the tasks imposed on them by the Act on Electromobility and Alternative Fuels. I would also like to stress that the fund's important action will be to support the purchase of low-carbon vehicles for citizens, not only for entrepreneurs and local authorities. There are also issues concerning the number of charging points, the development of this very important sector. Let us note that today, Europe, the European Union, all the agendas point to developing all those segments that allow for diversification of the energy source, including towards and in the area of energy storage, in order to take care of the environment. If we are talking about the data from the fund - yes, Madam, I am replying already, I ask for a moment of patience - then I will now give you a few facts. 1128 normal power charging points represent a 3-fold increase since 2015, in which year we started developing this segment. 483 high power charging points are 10 times higher. There were also issues concerning the replacement fee. The substitute fee is based on European Union legislation and is clearly linked to the national indicative objective, namely the share of renewable energy sources in the fuel market. In turn, the issue fee is support for zero-emission transport. I would like to stress that these solutions, which we are proposing here, concern mainly the better use of this fund, which is, in short, any citizen applying for a subsidy for a zero-emission vehicle will be able to obtain higher support. This will be due to the transposition of legislation which will exempt this subsidy from tax. Following the entry into force of the proposed amendments, as well as the entry into force of the Regulations, the first competitions for beneficiaries will be launched. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u50	Thank you very much. Does the applicant's representative wish to speak? No. Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer the draft law on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act and the Corporate Income Tax Act, contained in print No 68, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. The Marshal of the Sejm also proposes that the Sejm should be based on the article. 39 (1) (a) 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm have set a time limit for the submission of a report enabling it to be examined today. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the Law on the System of General Courts, the Law on the Supreme Court and some other laws (Print No 69). I ask Mr Jan Kanthak to present the reasons for the bill. But the level...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u51	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the applicants, I present a draft law amending the Law on the System of General Courts, the Law on the Supreme Court and some other laws, print No 69. The aim of this project is to organise and eliminate any doubts about the status of judges, but above all to improve the functioning of the judiciary. In recent months, we have witnessed attempts to bring chaos... And that's what Banas was bringing in. ...and anarchize the democratic rule of law. Total opposition, but unfortunately also part of the judge's community claims the right to decide who the judge is and who is not, whose judgments are important and whose judgments are not. They question the status of judges assessed by the National Judicial Council and appointed by the President of the Republic of Poland by the constitutional authorities of the State. You're questioning. From 1933 this law. They scare Poles that judgments given in their cases can be considered invalid. You'll be court-martialed, too. It's just that these threats don't have any legitimacy in the law. You have a policy, apart from Poles, because every case is real people, their real stories and personal dramas. Oh... Get off that podium! Banana! And the adoption of their unwarranted and really dangerous thinking to the rule of law would allow to challenge almost all judges in Poland, those who were appointed by the previous National Council of the Court of Justice, whose non-constitutionality was found by the Constitutional Tribunal, and those more than 700 judges appointed before 1989 by the Communist Council of the State. Downside, man, Downside. Peterovich. Mr President, I warn you. Don't yell. It's all our fault. And then what happens to the sentences that came before these years? It's over, isn't it? From 1989 to today it is up to 274 million cases of Poles. Their questioning, the opposition's questioning or the group of judges already mentioned... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mrs Gasiuk, please calm down. ...would be nothing but a manifest attempt to bring chaos [[Applause]] and, worse than that, undermining the constitutional principle of the inevitability of judges. Tadek, shame on you! It's a threat to judges, to their independence and independence. There is no need to look for examples far away. After all, you will all remember the last words of the leader of the biggest opposition party, Mr Grzegorz Schetin, who said that the judges would be remembered and settled. Members too, some. This is your understanding of free courts. [[Applause]] Bravo! These are free courts according to the opposition. Applicants. They want to separate judges, divide them into better and worse. Some people like it, others don't like it. The letter of the law. Only that in this way you do not divide judges, in this way you divide Poles and, above all, destroy the fundamentals of the rule of law. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Who's talking? Yes, High Sejm, that's how opposition politicians and a group of judges supported by them see three divisions of power. The European Union too? This is how they see judicial independence free from political pressure, talking about their condemnation and accountability. But why don't you tell me about the bill? The Court, too? What are you cooking for them? High Seym! We want to protect these constitutional values. [[Applause]] And that's why we're presenting this bill. Nobody says white is white and black is black. High Seym... [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Green Claudia Jachira, Artur Łącki and Urszula Zielińska hold a scarf with the inscription:]] [[Some Members chant: Constitution! Constitution! Constitution!]] Mr. Marshal, please allow me to continue to present... I would like to ask those of you who have brought a banner, to leave the room or to steal a banner. Otherwise, you will be punished. We have this form. It's a scarf. Marshal, this is a scarf. High Seym! I'm going to present a few numbers now. Nearly 700 unattended judges. Just a moment, sir, just a moment. Sir, just a moment, sir. What? Don't we have it? There isn't, there isn't. He'll be right there. Easy. Punishment for a scarf. Members, because this is the three of your fellow Members... This is a scarf, Marshal. On the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 2a of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I state that your conduct in the sitting room violates the seriousness of the Sejm. I think it has to be with names. This is a formula necessary for you to be punished. [[Touchdown, applause]] No names, no formula. You're welcome, sir. Proceed. High Seym! Let me show you a few numbers. Nearly 700 unattended judges, which is almost 10% the general judges in Poland. Do something about it. It's the result of the obstructive actions of the judicial community... 4 years. ...against judicial reform. You've been in charge for four years. They delay or even block the opinion of judges, candidates for free employment. And who's calling the judges? Meanwhile, every year 16 million cases of Poles go to Polish courts, among others. such as cases of dismissal or failure to pay, custody of a child or divorce and separation decisions. There's more and more cases and too few judges. Decide well. Therefore, the proposal submitted to the High House envisages a change in the functioning of colleges and judicial assemblies. Currently, they are responsible for blocking the seat of judges. [[Applause]] I'm afraid so. That's very sad. Hence the change in the nature of the opinion. The personal shape of the College of Appeals and District Courts will also change. In the current form of a college, they are composed almost exclusively of representatives chosen by the meetings of judges in individual courts. This shape does not guarantee the proper functioning of this body in terms of both substantive and organisational terms. There are difficulties in matching the dates of college meetings with the duties of judges. Collisions of time limits for court meetings with time limits for college meetings permanently dismiss the performance of judicial duties by judges - members of the college and the proper functioning of the judicial body of the college. That is why we propose a change in the composition of the college. According to the bill, its members would be the Presidents of the District and District Courts respectively. This leads to managerial management and assurance of the reliability and rationality of the opinions expressed regarding both the organisation of work in court and personal matters. High Seym! Let's move on to the next number. 10,000. Judges. Judges who deal with cases every day and make judgments in them. I mean, it's not like we can let the standard become a matter of undermining the status of one judge by another. It's a key thing. Ladies and gentlemen! We must prevent this upcoming war between judges. Oh... That is why we want to introduce the definition of a judge and the principle of banning the legality of the appointment of a judge by the President of the Republic of Poland. Why? This is an expression of strengthening the guarantee of the judge's irresistibility and the corresponding qualified disciplinary measure. Uh-huh. What about the TSUE? To this end, we propose a clear regulation in the system laws on who remains a judge of a particular type of court. The diploma's over. The aim of the proposed amendment is to clarify the constitutional standard of a general nature through transposition of... KNF? ...to all the judicial laws of the Constitutional Tribunal as the person appointed to this position by the President and the person who took a vow to the President of the Republic of Poland. Did you write it yourself? It should be noted that there are no constitutional regulations that allow an assessment of the effectiveness of the act of appointment of a judge. This means that it is unacceptable for the courts to examine the existence of a judicial relationship as constituted by a presidential act. NSA. This is the act of the law backwards. It is unacceptable, beyond the limits of a specific constitution, e.g. as regards the validity of elections, interference by judicial authorities in the foundations of the system of state order excluded from the cognition of common courts. It's a reverse act of law, sir. Clearly, such interference would violate the three divisions of power. The refusal to challenge the appointment by the President of the Republic of Poland does not affect the right to deny impartiality or, more generally, the independence of the judge in identifying a specific individual case on the basis of the specific circumstances revealed. However, it cannot be considered in abstract that a given person has been appointed to... Who wrote this nonsense to you? ...to serve as a judge does not have the status of authorising him to carry out judicial tasks. Ladies and gentlemen! On this occasion, it is impossible not to mention the objections raised and, unfortunately, some of the judicial environments of allegations relating to the conflict of Polish Constitutional standards with EU law standards. Sejm Analysis Office... The whole legal line, e.g. the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 11 May 2005 states that the Constitution remains because of its special power by the law of the Supreme Republic of Poland. [[Applause]] Bravo! You've got to understand this at last. We? The Constitution remains due to its special power by the law of the highest Republic of Poland. [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] Mr. Marshal, you're gonna take that... Read it again. Read it again. 11 May 2005, judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Tadeusz Cymanski hits the desktop and chants: Constitution! Constitution! Constitution! Mr... This also applies to ratified international agreements on delegation of competence in certain matters. It is therefore impossible to agree to the actions of a group of judges aimed at excluding their colleagues from the profession, since the appointment of judges takes place on the basis of the provisions of the Constitution. Disgraceful! Constitution, constitution. However, in view of the need to safeguard respect for the legal system in force in Poland, it is proposed to amend the disciplinary liability of judges. The project distinguishes among disciplinary delicacies those aimed at the violation of the system - the system - the rules of functioning of the Republic of Poland... Faggot. ...in terms of the functioning of the justice system. A colleague from work. These rules will protect the justice system and the constitutional authorities of the state from attacks by their own authorities, and indirectly the interests of individual parties to the process, i.e. all Poles. They will also increase legal certainty for society as a whole. In addition, the drafter provides for the introduction into the catalogue of disciplinary penalties of a monthly basic salary of the judge, together with the allowances available to him. The financial penalty for a disciplinary offence exists in the laws of the European Union, such as: Austria or Spain. Don't lie to me. It's a lie. We also propose that the Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs of the Supreme Court should have... Mrs Skowronska, I call you to order. If you're lying, I can't react so calmly. No, you can't scream in the Seym. You're not at the market. You're in the Seym. I don't know if you understand. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] But, Marshal... But you're scaring a woman? There you go. May I? We also propose that the Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs of the Supreme Court should have the power to settle cases concerning the questioning of the status of judge and his powers to exercise justice. The equality of judges must also be reflected in the procedure for the election of the first President of the Supreme Court. We therefore propose to modify the procedure for the appointment of the first President of the Supreme Court. We want to legally guarantee every Supreme Court judge the right to apply for this position. The draft also regulates the admissibility of the submission of candidates at the meeting of the General Assembly of Judges of the Supreme Court and provides for a three-step selection procedure in the event of a selection problem based on a quorum of 2/3 of the number of Judges. We also point to the need to regulate a situation where there will be no effective choice of candidates for the position of the first President of the Supreme Court. The draft provides for the transfer of powers to the President of the Republic of Poland to designate a judge to perform this function temporarily from all judges of the Supreme Court. As regards the status of the Supreme Court judge and disciplinary liability, we propose solutions similar to those designed for general court judges. On the same basis, we propose that the principle of reducing the remuneration of judges and prosecutors who are retired be introduced by 0.2 percentage points per month be introduced... That's the independence. ...even incomplete, missing 20 years of service. Such differentiation is fully justified by the fundamental principles of justice. You have no doubt... A judge or prosecutor who has served for 20 years cannot be treated on an equal footing with a person who has served for a year, two years or five years. The draft also provides for a new model for the appointment of deputies for disciplinary action which gives disciplinary action to ordinary judges the right to choose the persons acting in that capacity. The draft introduces the possibility of imposing a fine on witnesses who, at the stage of disciplinary proceedings (the bell) carried out by the disciplinary officer, evade the obligation to appear. The fine for not being a witness is common in the law. Thank you very much, sir. I need another 20 seconds. It's time, that's it... Time's up, sir. 20 seconds for interruption in time... In other laws, i.e. Law on the system of administrative courts, Law on the prosecutor's office... Mr. Marshal, what about time? ...we propose similar changes, of course adapted to their specifics. Ladies and gentlemen! The executive, legislative and judicial authority may act only within the limits of the law generally applicable in Poland. Quiet, quiet. Laws, constitution. That's right, the constitution. That is the rule of law, that is the rule of law. When will you understand that? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] That's a final verdict for letters to the KRS. Thank you very much, sir. High Izbo! Please refer the bill to further work. Long live the Constitution. Partying, not law.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u52	Thank you, sir. I would like to address Mr Budka: the three members of your club who ridicule your club, that is your concern, but at the same time they are disturbing, violating the Sejm's rules and that is the Bureau's concern - we will have to respond to this at the next meeting of the Sejm Bureau. A scarf? With what? Mr. Marshal, after this speech, do you speak of ridicule? You embarrassed the Sejm so much. Now let's start the discussion. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Przemysław Czarnek will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Oh, next. The diamond's next.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u53	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of Members and Members of Law and Justice regarding the draft law amending the Law on the Law on the System of General Courts, the Law on the Supreme Court and certain other laws, print No 69. Clearly, Members of the Law and Justice are in full support of the solutions we propose in the bill... We're not surprised. ...for one very simple reason: we, ladies and gentlemen... Because you want to be unpunished. That's the only reason. ...we're not discovering America, we're not proposing anything new, we're introducing another stage of justice reform... It was already in the Polish People's Republic. In the People's Republic of Poland it was. ...with regard to the disciplinary responsibility of the judges... In the time of Peter's glory. ...the responsibility and standards that are known in Europe in countries such as France, Germany, Slovenia and many others. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Don't lie to me. It's a lie. These are European standards, which are also needed in Poland and demanded by Poles. The vast majority of Poles, not the handful that went out on the streets yesterday. Write it with a fork... This example is also the concern of Marshal Kidawa-Błońska, who thought more people would come to the protests. They won't come because people require us to reform the justice system. We'll see. We're not discovering anything. We are acting like a responsible parliamentary majority elected in democratic elections. [[Applause]] You're acting like you're invaders in your own country. The responsible majority of the Seym must respond to the coup, chaos and anarchy introduced by a handful of judges who are at the service of total opposition. That's just what you have to call it. [[Applause]] If you're holding a scarf that says Constitution, that's very good. Read the Polish constitution. And you're holding a scarf that says Banas. Don't live in an alternate reality. Read the Polish Constitution. [[Applause]] Bravo! Read an article, for example. 178 constitutions, what it says. Judges are subject only to constitutions and laws. Exactly. Amen. How can one call a situation in which a Polish judge claims that he will not execute Polish laws? How can you call this different than just a knock, anarchy and chaos? [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] And 179? Mr President, read to yourself with understanding. The responsible majority must make arrangements and that is what Poles expect us to do. And that's why we're going to support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u54	Thank you very much. Mr Kamil Bortniczuk, Club Law and Justice. Are you an MP? There it is. We won't be happy, but we will vote. That's too bad about your positions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u55	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The agreement of Jarosław Gowin supports the direction of the proposed changes... The spine's bent. ...and he understands the reasons behind the need to introduce them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And these rations are, above all, the need to ensure the safety of citizens... I can hear that crack in my spine. ...security in terms of stability of judgments issued in Polish courts, but also the need to prevent the anarchy of the Polish justice system, to which part of the judicial community is headed. [[Applause]] That was four years ago, not now. Exactly. At the same time, we share some of the comments expressed in the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office, and we will therefore make a number of amendments that will aim to eliminate some of the provisions that may be incompatible with European Union law or the Polish Constitution. We will also propose a preamble to the Act, which will clearly define the values behind the need to adopt this regulation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u56	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Sak, Club Law and Justice. They want to split us up. One club, three jobs. But time divided between three Members. The club has every right to do that. But consistent. Well done, Peter. Lawyer.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u57	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A very narrow group of judges, representatives of the judges' aristocracy, began an extremely dangerous and irresponsible game. [[Applause]] Oh, Jesus. Bravo! This is not the case, ladies and gentlemen, this masquerade... [[Game in the O.R.]] Keep your voice ...the political performances or the scorching sermons. That's secondary. The worst part is that they are taking actions that are beyond their competence. They forgot that the law is one and applies equally to all Poles. The disappearance of those sausages... Bravo! The judges are to apply the law... You're bound by the law, too. ...and not take legal action in their judgments, and it's contra legem actions, contrary to laws. Don't spoil it. This is legal revisionism and no rule of law entitles judges to contest and challenge the status of another judge. You'll be on TV. Thus, the judges have given themselves the power to exercise their powers, to exercise their powers of discretion for such an assessment. To Żoliborz. Usurpation. This is totally paralegal. It's a lie. As a young lawyer, I lived by the idea that the Supreme Court is the foundation of the law... And then I joined the PiS. And then it turned out, when I listened to the party's mother... ...and today it turns out that the Supreme Court is transforming into an enclave of lawlessness. Some judges cross borders and enter areas reserved only for the legislator. This is an attempt to paralyze, dishermetise the legal system and unwind Poland. A rational legislator must counter such practices and must counterbalance them. Every action triggers a reaction. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You don't put the shield down when the other side reaches for the sword. Thank you very much, sir. It is necessary to counteract these actions, the centrifugal diversion... Come down, come down, come down, shame. ...and control of this insubordination. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] That's a good diagnosis. Kiss again!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u58	Mr Boris Budka, the Civic Coalition Club, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u59	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There is no justice reform and there has been no reform. Change the TV channel. There are no laws, and there haven't been any laws that have made any improvements in this case over the last four years. Instead, we have another example of trying to cover up all those cases that are disgusting to the public. Today we are discussing a muzzle bill, a law that is to bury once and for all the three divisions of power in Poland, but above all the elementary fundamental principles for Western civilization. But the question is, why are you doing this? For the sake of the citizens? What are you reading this from? Nothing more vicious. Ladies and gentlemen, this is all to cover up these dozens of scandals that live in public opinion. [[Applause]] That's why you brought people to the streets. It's illogical. Where is your Banas today, who attacked the Ministry of Justice so badly last week, showing how you waste tens of millions of Polish and Polish budgets? Where's the D.A.? Get to the point. Where are those you called to the highest positions of state today? But finally, where are those who promised work and humility? [[Applause]] Where's Banas? Substantively, substantively. The real reason for this bill and this submission is the panic attempt to escape responsibility. [[Applause]] The real reason for this bill is that you know that the time of your failure is coming, that the time is coming when you will be in front of the Polish courts responsible for all these scandals which Poles have witnessed over the last four years. [[Applause]] Bravo! ... The platform likes us so much. Your judges... For the last four years, you've been trying to guarantee yourselves impunity. This de facto law concerns impunity. Everyone should be equal to the law, but you want to guarantee yourselves impunity... And so are the judges. Platform politicians, too. ...because you know how many scandals are yours - the KNF scandal, the GetBack scandal, the Banas scandal, the affair related to your aspirations... Amber Gold. ...your president to build... Grodski. ...the power of the developer... Amber Gold. PCK. ... The bribery scandal, the PCK case your colleague recently received the charges... You robbed the poor. ...for stealing money so insolently from those most in need. You want to be unpunished. You don't want to fix Poland because chaos is immanent... Disgraceful! ...included in your program. It suits you very well if the courts are not working properly, because you can blame it on the judges, while for more than four years the full responsibility for what is happening in the judicial system is borne by the one who today does not have the courage to sign the bill. Exactly. Nobody has any doubts. This bill is not a parliamentary project. This is a project written in the walls of the Ministry of Justice. Only cowardice and fear of responsibility, before the Court of State, caused his squires to be sent, [[Applause]] I think you're sending these... Yes, sir. ...who might as well have stood here 50 years ago and acted [[Applause]] on behalf of the only right party then. Times change, but you're always on the wrong side. Yes, sir. You are an anti-Polish party, an anti-European party. [[Applause]] Because what you are doing right now is moving Poland out of the European Union, it is an attempt to introduce Putinian standards. It's a lie. To the doctor. These are Turkish solutions. ...to Poland. These are Turkish solutions... French. ...which you're trying to bring in. There is no justice reform and there has been no reform. You want impunity, and this bill is about impunity. You want your judges to acquit you later. But from this point of view, I assure you that anyone who acts against the Polish place in the European Union... You're performing. ...anyone who acts against the Poles and Poles, against the basic principles that are inscribed in the Western civilization, will be accounted for. [[Applause]] And that's why we're applying to reject this project at first reading. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u60	It's hard to hold back from commenting, but I'll hold back. Ooh. Mr. Marshal, stop yourself. Don't comment. You'll go back to Krakow, you'll rest. Mr Krzysztof Smishek, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u61	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill presented is an epilogue, an epilogue of the long and shameful war of law and justice with Polish judges. The PiS has already accustomed us to hating everything independent, autonomous, and free-minded. That's why you're at war with those who still have the opportunity and the time, and the space to think slowly, with the judges. In the explanatory memorandum of the bill, its authors state that - attention - the fundamental purpose of the bill is to arrange for systemic issues related to the status of a judge. How perverse... Exactly. ...and those words sound cynical. Sequence? Looks like somebody made a mistake. It was meant to be submission - submission, involuntaryness, gagging, pacification. Prison's still... That's the real purpose of this project. [[Applause]] Bravo! Yes, this bill is a simple legal bubel, but on the other hand it is well known, an awkward tool, effective, to silence those who do not dance as Novgorodska will play them. Ladies and gentlemen! No one, including colleagues from Law and Justice, has any doubts about what this project is for. You reported it as a parliamentary project, but we all know - it can be seen, heard and felt - that the project was created in Ujazdowskiego Avenue 11. But this is some kind of sin? Paraphrasing the classic: According to this bill, if someone raises their hand to the power of the PiS, this party will chop off his hand. And that's why you're trying to build both a muzzle and a bat for judges. And judges are the last bastion of independent thinking in Poland. They ensure that the sentence of the Polish court is not challenged by another court, also in another country of the European Union. Do you really think that the Swedish, Czech or Croatian judge will tremble at what Nowogrodzka and Jarosław Kaczyński will say? No. They will follow what the Luxembourg Court and the Supreme Court have ruled. You could say you're accusing the opposition of introducing anarchy or chaos. But it is you who bring about the worst possible chaos, which is legal uncertainty for millions of citizens. With this bill, you want to shut your mouth to the judges, break their spines and intimidate them. You're running a whole party camera, disciplinary attorneys, and lately the prosecution's office, to silence Polish judges. You refer to different standards, French, German, and you are closest to Turkish standards, where judges are already beating on the streets. The bill is a bubble that taunts the basic constitutional requirements. How cynical and perverse or uneducated it is necessary to be in order to include in the bill that disciplinary misconduct is considered to be an obvious and gross violation of the law, including the refusal to apply the provisions of the law, if its unconstitutionality is not determined by the Constitutional Tribunal. Do the law enforcement eagles, those who are the authors of this project, know that both the Supreme Court judge and the district court judge in Oława, Sopot or Puck can apply the constitution directly? Do you really think of society as idiots who can't... Art. 178 is applicable. ...discovering this primitive fortress, which consists in the fact that the subsequent anti-constitutional laws, which you accept as one, will be applied by Polish judges without hesitation and without writing? You want to turn Polish judges into machines for issuing judgments under the dictation of Nowogrodzka, on the basis of the PiS regulations, according to parody, slogans: party rules, party judges, party never goes wrong. The D.A.'s already under the shoe, so now it's time for the courts. Nation, nation. Students of the first year of law in their classes in Roman law learn one important paraemia: Cui bono? - Who does that serve? Does that serve the community? Yes, sir. Society. Pis-owsky. Will this law make judicial proceedings shorter? Will there be lower judicial costs? Will unnecessary things be brought out of court? Will the judicial administration finally get the kind of remuneration it deserves? No, nothing like that. Cymanic, quiet. The only beneficiary of this bill will be the PiS, who will gain peace. You'll have peace. Ladies and gentlemen! Further meetings are scheduled for 15 January and further sentences will be delivered by the Supreme Court. This will be a tribute to the judgment of the Court of Justice. I ask: Is this real reason for this pseudo-Polish legislative outburst a desire to prohibit judges from passing these judgments? Against obstruction. Another very important thing: a disgraceful case concerning the election of the first President of the Supreme Court. You've rehearsed this with the Constitutional Tribunal. Now you want to throw it in the Supreme Court. [[♪ The bell ♪]] As far as questions are concerned, we will continue to talk about this, but the point is that the judge of the Disciplinary Chamber should be the first president of the Supreme Court. On behalf of the Left Club, I am filing a motion to reject this bill. This bill has to go to the dumpster of legislative history. This is the bill. Her place is in the history dump. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u62	Thank you, sir. Now that you're on the speaker of the Sejm, it's really hard to refrain from commenting. It's not a document, it's a project. It is regrettable, sir, that you are acting this way during your first term of office. In the woods with this. What about the Greens? Exemplary punishment. Please, Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, club of the Polish People's Party and Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The PiS was given a social mandate in 2015. In 2019 too. It has prepared a series of laws to reform the court, in their opinion. Today's bill is another amendment, probably the ninth, of the Supreme Court Act. This is an expression of your failure, your inability and your smallness. This isn't a legal act, this is an act of revenge against those you think are guilty of. For you are always crystal, impeccable, blameless. Like Banana. You've got to find the guy who did this. Today the defendant, in your opinion, is the judge, the defendant has the face of a judge - because independent, independent... What about Bury? ...thinking, having an opinion, speaking not of politics, but of matters of justice. Today's bill is your confession of the mistakes you've made and your failure. You have not reformed justice for the citizens, but because of your greed for power. This greed for power has been guiding you from the very beginning. You are a political formation that has laws and justice in its name. Anything on the bill? You want to change the law to steal justice. About the bill, something because... This is your action, which leads to Poles losing confidence in the justice system - within 4 years of your government, confidence in the court fell from 40% to 15%. It's about people who trust the judiciary today. The proceedings increased - in regional courts by more than one month, in economic courts, in the case of business cases involving entrepreneurs, by more than two months. This is the effect of your reforms. Because we're in politics. This case, this law in its laws, concerns courts and judges, but in its intention it concerns the right to justice. You want to limit the right to justice by politicising courts, gagging judges and leading to total chaos. [[Applause]] in the justice system. You don't have the ability to reform because you don't have good intentions. I really don't want to defend the judges in this case, because it's not about them. It's not about $10,000. people, but by 38 million Poles, who according to the article. 45 constitutions have the right to impartial, independent and independent courts, to seek justice in courts. And that's why they're demanding this reform. ...politicized, that's what this is all about. You've led to extreme politicization of judges. You didn't fill jobs, you said in the explanatory statement that the point was to have more judges, make the proceedings quicker. The proceedings are not faster. By the time you introduced your KRS, i.e. by spring 2018, 800 posts were blocked by the Minister of Justice, because it is he who initiates the competitions for judicial positions. It is also worth mentioning the three divisions of power, about Montesquius, who lived 300 years ago. I think it's a memory that's just... This is humiliation, this is lying, this is trampling on the principle of three divisions of power, the balance of the authorities that are to be balanced. It is also worth mentioning what Montescius said, that the worst tyranny is the one that is fulfilled in the shadow of the law and under the banner of pretend-righteousness. And you want supposedly--judges in supposedly-courts under the banner of supposedly-righteousness. [[Applause]] I would like to thank those citizens who are going out, who are protesting, who are saying who are claiming rights. Also to judges, because they are also citizens and also have the civil rights, human rights and rights that the constitution guarantees them. But they have no right to be politicians. I would like to thank them, but I would also like to say that the opposition must hit its own breasts. We screwed up this morning during the morning vote. It can't happen again. Ha, ha, ha! Discipline your people. God's providence is watching. Your shouting will not stifle the truth and the right to justice. And it is on behalf of the right to justice of all our fellow countrymen that I apply for the rejection of the law at first reading. [[Applause]] Oh...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u64	Mr Konrad Berkowicz, Confederation, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u65	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Budek, then Mr Kosiniak-Kamish spoke here about the three divisions of power, as it is being destroyed. It reminded me of Professor Suszka's words, who said that there are beautiful false and ugly truths in this world. And the ugly truth is that, yes, in Poland there is no three divisions of power, but not since PiS rules, but since much earlier times. I draw attention to the fact that in Poland in practice it is the government that writes laws. Later, the voting machine in the form of two hundred and dozen Members of the ruling parties is penally voting this bill so that the government can execute its own law. So in Poland there has been no three divisions of power for a long time, there are at most two divisions of authorities: there is executive and legislative power and judicial authority. Who holds the legislative-executive power, we all know - now Law and Justice. On the other hand, in front of our eyes, on Polish streets and in the Polish parliament, there is a struggle between two castes for power over the judiciary. The Confederacy, of course, does not stand on either side of this dispute because the subject matter of this dispute is most inappropriate, because in Poland it is not about who will rule the judiciary, but about restoring a truly independent judiciary. And in order to restore a truly independent judiciary, one cannot do the same as the ruling party, which introduces minor changes, usually related to personalities, nor can one do as the old opposition called total, i.e. stop any change by pretending that the law and justice were working well and independent. No, it's not. Unfortunately, it requires a thorough reconstruction of the rule of law system, the justice system in Poland and the Confederation to be independent. The Confederation is also invariably in favour of the sovereignty of Poland. Poland's sovereignty also means independence from external institutions towards Poland, including EU institutions. Unfortunately, the situation in which the courts - such a crucial thing about institutions in Poland - are subject to the influence of external institutions, the EU, will not be corrected again by this law, because unfortunately it is a legal bubel. Therefore, the Confederation will not support this law. It's illogical. I would like to point out that PiS is trying to correct a situation in which EU institutions indirectly affect Polish courts, and this is a situation which I will remind you of which PiS is guilty. It seems that Law and Justice are heroically struggling with problems that are not under normal rule. I'll remind you it's a PiS, I mean. Jarosław Kaczyński negotiated exactly, and Lech Kaczyński signed the Treaty of Lisbon, which de facto deprived us of sovereignty, making us dependent on the EU institutions. This sovereignty must be restored, because for independence, true independence of courts in Poland we must restore the independence of courts in Poland not only from the governing party, whatever it is, it is obvious. We must restore the independence of Polish courts from external institutions, also from the institutions of the parastate, which is the European Union. And that's what the Confederacy is all about. And last but not least, one more point. I listened to Mr Budko, who mentioned the issues that are related to the Government of Law and Justice. I sat here in the benches and heard the PiS Members shout in retaliation the names of the civil coalition scandals. And I thought, as long as on Christmas night animals speak with a human voice, on the day when there is a fee meeting in the Sejm, PO-PiS politicians also decided to say a few words of truth. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u66	Mr Krzysztof Bosak. There isn't. Mr Janusz Kowin-Mikke, Confederation. Oh... Collision. Oh, he's... Oh, there it is. It's me later. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u67	I'm here. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Confederation, I wanted to briefly refer to this principle, which is at the moment an attempt to introduce into the Polish legal system, namely scattered control. Ladies and gentlemen, there cannot be such a situation that now every judge will judge which other judge is appointed in an important way, which judge of the Polish legal system on behalf of the Polish justice system... Then support our bill. ...has the right to create... Come on in. Please don't disturb me. ...has the right to correctly interpret Polish law and which does not. This is an attempt to anarchize the Polish legal system by external power centers. Such anarchy is definitely opposed, and although what the Law and Justice do brings chaos, it is not a real reform of the justice system, but only a game at the top of the judicial hierarchy, it will certainly not be for us to accept such anarchy imposed on our country from the outside. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Then stand by the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u68	Thank you very much. 36 ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting the question time - 1 minute. As the first Mr Jacek Decoration, Club Law and Justice. Zbyszek will be pleased.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u69	I don't know if you're with the Minister. I am, sir, and you? Dear Marshal, Dear Izbo! Minister! Before I begin the question, I wanted to quote something. Here there is one person who has already described well how you defend the independence, independence, apoliticity of the courts. But Banasi's not here. Courts today, I guarantee you, they won't settle any cases before the election. None. They won't do your tongue for a year. Nothing. They're gonna run cases and... That's the mess you've made. ...nothing. Is it about making the courts so independent, apolitical... And you guys are in charge. ...as they're supposed to settle against Mr. Pinior or your friend Gawłowski, where the judge speaks to the politician? That's for Banas. Is the judge who will rule on Mr. Pinior's case independent, apolitical? Isn't he gonna settle the case before the election because he's not gonna do anything, like Mr. Neumann says? Who are you asking these questions to? Minister! High Izbo! Mr. Complainer! Question... [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's too late. Time's up. What minister? ...or the bill submitted... Thank you very much, sir. ...is evaluated by the scientific community and whether... Everything was wrong. [[The Vice Marshal shuts down the microphone]] Yes. Thank you. [[Applause]] Thank you, sir. By the rectors.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u70	Ms Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Civic Coalition. The debut didn't work. Congratulations. It was a failed debut.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u71	Mr. Marshal, I have a question: How do I address the authors of the Repressive Act? Shall I call them master or companion? Because when I read this project, it's where I see the records straight from the Soviet Codes, not when you try to tell people... To the doctor. ...from the rules in force in France or Germany. [[Applause]] After all, it was the Soviet theorists who wrote: The independence of Soviet judges cannot be understood in the sense of independence from the socialist state. You're only doing this so that the PiS politicians avoid being responsible for participating in the scandals - that's why you're introducing these laws. And today you are following this path of Soviet theorists of law. In practice, you are introducing a law that will punish judges for the application of Polish law, the Polish Constitution and the EU treaties. Why are you afraid to say that you are taking a step towards the exit of Poland from the European Union, towards polexit? That's a lie. You are only taking this step to avoid liability for the introduction of (The bell) legal chaos... You're gonna stop now. ...in Poland. [[Applause]] You're gonna change the TV channel. [[Piotr Zgorzelski, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, is the chairman of the proceedings.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u72	Thank you very much. I ask the floor of Mr Krzysztof Smishek, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u73	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the authors of this project - I will no longer bully myself about this address, whether on the Village or in Ujazdowski Avenues - concerning this process of selecting a candidate for the first President of the Supreme Court. What do you want? in fact, achieve by introducing this several stages... of these several phases, each time the quorum will be reduced during the General Assembly of Supreme Court Judges? Tell me the truth: Do you want the President to be presented as a result to the candidate who will come from the Disciplinary Chamber? Because at the end we have a quorum of 35 judges who will elect a candidate as the first president of the Supreme Court. And that's a sin? Prosecutor. So this is the standard transferred from the Constitutional Court. You want to break your teeth, knock your teeth out to the General Assembly of Supreme Court Judges. You want to expand the President's power again, to shake up the three divisions of power again. So the first president... the party nominate, not the judge, the president of the Supreme Court. These are your standards. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u74	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 will be heard by Mr Krzysztof Paszyk. Mr. Marshal, with a formal request to extend the debate to two minutes. We don't add, no. Don't interrupt. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u75	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Frazes, clichés, clichés, Mr applicant. There is one true opinion in your long line: that there are real people standing before the courts and there are real, real problems. What are you going to say today, sir, to those who have a fixed amount of child support that they have recently received, what are you going to say to those who have a settled, won dispute with the tax office, and who, as a result of your changes, your ideas will not be able to sleep for a year, not five years, or maybe several years after nights, not knowing if someone in front of the Polish or European courts will not question these decisions? Tell those citizens today... But what are you talking about? ...like them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They're supposed to look to the future. [[Applause]] What's the point of all this nonsense?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u76	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke. Mr. Marshal, can you extend the debate? Is that possible? No! Mr. Marshal, but this is a formal motion, and you have a duty to put it to the vote. There you go, Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke. Mr. Marshal, but the formal conclusion... Okay, wait a minute. It's rule time. But not in the middle of a debate. And you're here for the Rules of Procedure, aren't you? Yes. I want you to follow the rules.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u77	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill is, of course, a dirty patch for a painful wound. However, as I hear these protests and see here the constitution, it reminds me that in 2009, when Poland was still independent, the Treaty of Lisbon did not enter into force, the judge Magdalena Jungniel at a seminar at the University of Warsaw, an adviser of the then minister, said: Judges will judge according to EU rules, even if it were contrary to the Polish constitution. And now these people are walking and screaming: constitution, constitution! They're not yelling. Art. 90 constitutions... Of course, we do not support this law, but we do not support such methods either. Just talk about the rule of law, not about democracy, because it's the PiS that has the majority, the PiS is democratic and the PiS wants the courts to judge as the people want. No, the courts are so that the people don't rule. He is to rule justice, not the people. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u78	Thank you very much, sir. I ask the floor of Mrs Anna Milczanowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u79	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Is it true that the introduction of a clear definition of a judge, indicating that he is a person appointed by the President, is based on an article. 179 Constitution of the Republic of Poland? A constitution that you so fiercely defend, but only when it's convenient for you. But you Banasia. The appointment of a judge as a judge is the prerogative of the President of the Republic of Poland... Banana, Banana! ...and therefore it is not possible to challenge this act. Banana. Banas bows down. What are you protesting against? Against the constitution that you so often accuse us of breaking? [[Applause]] Banana's bowing to you. Are you asking us? [[Ask Mrs. Kanthaka.]] Banas bows down, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u80	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Robert Kropiwnicki, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u81	Mr. Marshal! However, I wanted to maintain the request to extend the debate to 2 minutes. It's your decision. You can do it. [[Applause]] Because really 1 minute in such an important case is a sprint, and this is a serious case. Mr President, you are running out of time to ask a question. But I'm asking you to extend your time. And I promise I won't take away your voice, even if you pass that time. Okay, thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's already been done. You're wasting your time. Oh, no. Well, this draft submitted by a group of Members is absolutely unacceptable, and this was confirmed by the Sejm Analysis Office, your Sejm Analysis Office. [[Applause]] Robert, this is your office too. On 70 pages they wrote that this project is suitable for basketball, that it should not be procedated in any way, because it violates the Polish constitution, violates EU rules and is incompatible with Polish laws. It's just a rubble and you should be ashamed of the real thing - a few people who signed it. Because please note that this project does not reform anything, this project (the bell) really destroys the independence of the Polish court. He's saving. This project you're going to turn into the judges of the court officials you're going to be giving orders to. We want justice and equality against the law, and you want manual control of trials and judgments, because you want to protect your people, those who have trials now or who will have trials in a moment. There's gonna be a lot of them. The judges must be steadfast because the hour of rehearsal is coming. Time's up. Question. For 10,000. The judges are coming to rehearse whether or not they're going to be... Mr... ...or will they depend on the Minister of Justice. Robert, ask the question. You can't do that. There you go. I protest. Really, apart from a few minions, the judges have independence in their hearts, and you can't take that away from them. What's this? A statement? There's a law higher than your laws. You won't scream us and take away the independence of Polish judges. It's just not gonna work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u82	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Ms Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bąk, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u83	Ladies and gentlemen! The Polish justice system doesn't work well. Long and under the rule of law and justice, an increasing period of court proceedings or the amount of court fees which is increasing to such an extent that citizens today, in order to avoid costs, often waive the exercise of their rights before a court. These are the problems that Poles and Poles face in the courts. They may outrage and outrage the judgments handed down on black protest activists or the signaler fighting wild reprivatization, but none of these problems are solved by the muzzle bill. The reprivatization bill as it wasn't, it doesn't exist. The right to public assembly is restricted and the government is not eager to reform which would reduce queues or reduce court fees. The idea of banning judges from investigating the compatibility of legislation with the Constitution or European law will not cure the situation in the judiciary. On the contrary, it will further weaken the weak position of the citizen towards the system. For ordinary citizens and citizens, calling for non-compliance with EU law or the constitution is often the last resort of rescue. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why do you want to take this board away from the citizens? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u84	Thank you very much, madam. Please take the floor of Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - PSL - Kukiz15. [[The Marshal's Guard intervenes at the gallery, some Members rise.]] People are beating!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal, people are beating! Wait a minute. They don't beat, they don't beat. No, they're out. They help, he's collapsed. He fainted. Some Members chant: Free courts! Free courts! Free courts! He fainted from the impression. Oh, Banas, Banas. Thank you very much. Please explain. We ask you to explain what happened at the gallery, but now I ask you to continue with the question... It's a break until we're clear. A break and an explanation. I ask Mr Jarosław Rzepa to ask a question. We'll sort it out. There you go. He's been taken out. ...and he'll get better right away. Who's the doctor in the O.R.? The Marshal's Guard intervenes... This is the first time that's happened. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Actually, I don't know what question to ask, Minister. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Because I'm really wondering if you don't have a heart. You can't hear the street... It's overseas. But which street? Disarmed. ...you don't hear what your colleagues say, you don't hear what the faculty councils say, what the Ombudsman says. In fact, it is difficult to say, ladies and gentlemen, something good about your proposal. All point to unacceptable constitutional, international and European instruments of integration into judicial independence and freedom of expression and association. Does that really mean nothing to you? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do these scenes that take place behind the walls of this House really not cause any reflection? Caused? Time's up. They don't, ladies and gentlemen. They don't. They don't, ladies and gentlemen. But one day you'll stop ruling. [[Applause]] Time's up.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u86	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Violetta Porowska, the Law and Justice. Your Marshal, will he be conducting the proceedings?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u87	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! There's a lot of media noise around the bill. Lyingly, I will repeat once again, falsely and lyingly point out (Mounting in the Chamber) that there is no legal practice in other countries to discipline judges. Supreme Court Judgment! So I'm asking you a question, ladies and gentlemen. Is it true that the Croatians... No. No. And the truth is, Banas is the CEO of NIK. ...but also Romanian, Spanish, German judges... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Jesus Christ! ...for interfering with the work of the courts, are they being disciplined? Thank you. [[Applause]] Bravo! Mrs. Porowska - the new Pawłowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u88	I would like to ask the floor of Barbara Nowacka, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u89	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We'd like to ask your applicants if you're ashamed. But we know shameless is their name. We would like to ask whether they know what they are doing, but I think they are completely not interested in it, because they are not interested in Poland only in the welfare of their own party. Would you like to ask what you want to cover: Banasia, KNF, Solidarity Fund? But the answer is simple: everything, all your issues you want to cover. But I'll ask what happens next. Whether, like the Soviet state, you will now introduce an institution of mirrors, or maybe you will appoint folk judges, or rather not you, Kaczyński will appoint you. Do you really know what you're doing? Because the thousands of people that went out on the streets that are protesting today know very well that what you're doing is polyxit. What you're doing is reconvening the state. What you're doing is bringing uncertainty to citizens and citizens about judicial institutions and justice. The effect will be such (the bell) that people will be afraid, they will be afraid to go to court because they will fear that the court is not independent. Not only was his work paralyzed, it was the fear, the fear of each and every one of us, and in time your children and your loved ones. Thank you. Time's up. People on the streets protest and ask, paraphrasing Kazik: What have you writers done with this land? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u90	Thank you very much to Barbara Nowacka. I now ask the floor of Mr Maciej Necessary, Parliamentary Club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u91	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The question to the applicants, or actually to the Ministry of Justice, or actually to the ruling parliamentary majority for four years. What have you done, what have you really done for people waiting years to settle in court? They're waiting even longer today. What have you done, what have you really done for women, victims of violence that do not find in Polish courts, support or justice? What have you done, what have you really done for the signalers, for activists fighting in the social interest, and who are in the Polish courts severely convicted? Nothing. Ordinary people have nothing of your revolution, because it's a revolution made in the interests of power. It's in your best interest. Question, question. This is the greatest accusation of law and justice, which falsely act on behalf of people, in fact defends only its own interests. None of this reform of yours (the bell), from this revolution of yours, have ordinary people colliding with the Polish justice system on a daily basis. [[Applause]] And the question?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u92	Thank you very much. Now please take the floor of Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u93	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The basic principle of the rule of law is the division of power and, above all, the balance of those authorities. Can the balance of the authorities be called a situation in which the legislative authority and the executive authority have a whip in their hand and the judicial authority is attached to the hierarchy? Because it is this law that you want to build and attach to this hungarian of individual Polish judges and de facto fight the rule of law and the justice system in Poland. But do not think that someone will be afraid of it, that someone will be scared of a few legislative scares and the Polish judge will start reading the letter of law differently, and will start ruling differently. That's not gonna happen. They will respect Polish law, and when you punish them, they will be Polish heroes. And do not be deluded, as you said in your statement that this bill will eliminate the chaos that you created. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This bill will make this chaos even bigger. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u94	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Tadeusz Wozniak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u95	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Honest Poles expect the courts to be efficient and just... And they're still waiting. ...not political and biased courts. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Judges should be associated with strengthening respect for social law and principles. Unfortunately, today they are perceived by the prism of heated, politicized judges, unpunished judges, who themselves say they are an extraordinary caste. Like Piebiak. At present, we have attacks on the independence of the judge. The opposition leader says that the judges appointed by the President of the Republic of Mr Andrzej Duda will be settled. And the President of the Supreme Court calls on other judges to refrain from ruling, and after all, judicial independence is one of the foundations of a democratic rule of law. It is the consequence of the three divisions of power. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Mr. Complainer! [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will the introduction of this law increase the guarantee of judicial independence? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u96	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u97	Mr. Marshal! We have listened to Mr Kanthak, who presented this bill to us, and I think we should agree with one thing that if we present such important laws - pal darling, we should present it to someone more serious - we cannot lie. Don't let it happen to you. You're more serious. We can't lie. It cannot be that a Member gets up and gives false information. What? Already in 2016, the ombudsman encouraged, informed Minister Ziobra not to hold back, did not freeze the judges' posts, and then over 200... Yeah, yeah. ...because time is running out. In 2017, these posts frozen by Mr.Ziobra, with whom Mr. Kanthak works, were over 500, and today there are over 745. My thesis is that you're specially freezing these jobs so that you can keep going on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on My question. If you're reforming the justice system, why can't we know the charges against Mr. Banasi? [[Applause]] Why do we not know Mr Morawiecki's statement of property? Why aren't we questioning President Kaczyński when you've been reforming the justice system for four years? Let's talk about Grodzki better. Talk about bribes. Why? Who will answer that question? Who knows the answer to that question? Mr. Ziobro, will you answer these questions? What? Why do we not know the property status of Mr Morawiecki? Why doesn't anyone explain it? Time, time. Did someone explain it? Will someone tell me why we are not questioning Mr Kaczyński? What about the envelope? The Marshal is not in session. Will you, Mr. Kanthak, who has the courage to come here and sound out of this pulpit as a spokesperson for the Minister of Justice, answer me the question: Why will Kaczynski not be dealt with even though he was accused of accepting a bribe? Will you answer my question: How many millions have Mr Morawiecki and why is he the only politician we do not know about the property statement? The Marshal abdicated. Get off the podium! Thank you very much, sir. Will anyone answer these questions? And how many envelopes did Kaczyński take? You cover your... Let me tell you something: you're all Bananas. But, Marshal, please...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u98	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic, parliamentary club of the Left. [[Speech outside the microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u99	Once you guys are done talking rude, I'd like to ask you a question. But I'm sorry... The Office for Sejm Analysis, the Supreme Court and the Councils of Faculties of Law 16 universities have assessed the muzzle law prepared by Members of Law and Justice as breaking the principles of judicial independence and the principle of primacy of European Union law before national law. So I have a question for you: Are you already preparing the resignation of the Lisbon Treaty signed by Lech Kaczyński, or are you waiting for the European Union to throw us out of its midst? In this connection, are you already preparing your own membership of the Community of Independent States, and you are also preparing your own union, e.g. San Escobar? Thank you. The Left knows something about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u100	Thank you very much, madam. Please take the floor of Mr Jack Protasiewicz, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u101	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Do Members, the authors of this legal bubble, which is this bill, really believe that these designs they refer to are German models? That's right. They're German, gentlemen. This is Mr. Prof. Ryszka's position, State of emergency, the history of the fall of the Third Reich's judiciary. That's where your patterns are. But you're the one reading this book, not us. It's clearly written there, [[Applause]] When the primacy of state power was to stand over man's right to justice. If you learn it, learn it. We don't study. If you don't... If this book is too thick for you, if you don't have the time or the desire or the ability to read Polish, then take it thinner. But you're the one reading it. I don't have to read it. This one's about the PRL judiciary. Because what you are proposing clearly mimics availability, dependence on the state of the Polish judiciary. The judge's phone. Your patterns are here. I'm calling Banas. Either in the state of emergency, or in the judiciary of the Polish People's Republic. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u102	Members, please do not disturb the Member who wishes to ask the question. Please take the floor of Mr Edward Siarka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u103	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! As a result of the round table agreements and throughout the transformation period in Poland, there was a rule according to Prof. Strzembosz that the judge's environment would manage itself and clean itself up. After 30 years, we know that none of this has happened, and that's why our problems with today's judicial system. She's delinquent. Peterovich, of course. Therefore, the question is: What may be the consequences of disorderly government issues related to the status of Supreme Court judge, universal courts, military courts or administrative courts? It's that Przylebska's in the Courthouse. Kanthak decorated with Kaleta. And the second question, which is also important from the point of view of the citizens. Well, in light of what's being discussed in the media, it appears that the status of 700 judges is serious... It may be called into question - those still appointed by the Council of States. How's Przylebska, huh? The question therefore arises: Does this law prevent anarchy of the state? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u104	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Sławomir Neumann, the Civic Coalition. Don't be vulgar.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u105	Let me tell you something. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Your voices about reforming and improving the judiciary have been heard for four years, but we still have lengthy cases in the courts. But there will be no judgment before the election. The courts have been unable to convict anyone for a year, because your failure and the destruction of the courts over the past few years have caused the cases to be prolonged. [[Applause]] Yes, sir! And really the biggest symbol of this extension is what you started with. The Constitutional Tribunal and the President of Przyłębska. Gawłowski. Moreover, appointed by the Council of State to judge. But I have the overwhelming impression that President Przyłębska is making more dinners for Kaczyński than the Constitutional Tribunal is giving judgments. I think he's doing it more often. [[Applause]] How do you know that? Unfortunately, those reforms you're talking about... You're acting like such a Bolshevik reconstructive group that introduces Bolshevik methods to the courts. Look who's talking. Because all your changes are based solely on laws that are either to discipline or to put the staff in the courts. As if Lenin had told you, make (the bell) judges of your subjects. This is your Bolshevik narrative. And the last sentence. I've learned my lesson. I can give up swearing. You can't quit this constant destruction of the three divisions of power, the foundations of the constitution, getting us out of the Union. You can't stop this. Take an example. Drop it. This is a bad bill. To the basket with her. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u106	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mrs Beata Maciejewska, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u107	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister Ziobro! I am surprised that you are making a mockery of your fellow Members who have made this bill, although I understand exactly what it serves. This can be read in the opinion of the Ombudsman, in which he writes that the purpose of regulation is not to organise systemic issues, but to solve ad hoc obstacles which prevent or hinder the implementation of political intentions contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, the European Convention on Human Rights and European Union law. The Supreme Court also writes in a similar way that the conduct of the PiS Members leads us to be forced to leave the European Union soon. Is that what the spokesperson wrote? But that wasn't a question. The Ombudsman of the European Commission says that Poland will now be analysed in terms of compliance with the EU's principles of independence in justice. Time's up. I would like to know how it is that all these most important bodies of the state and of the Union are wrong, and a group of dozens of Members, taken from space, are right. Thank you very much. We all live in space.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u108	Thank you very much, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Przemysław Czarnek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u109	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The question to the applicant is as follows. One of the primary constitutional principles guaranteeing judicial independence is the principle of irreparability. When was the last time you called Banasi? There are exceptions to this rule. The Constitution itself refers to these exceptions to a law adopted by the High House. Such an exception, among others. in this project we propose. But the question is: Isn't one judge's arbitrary, unlawful assessment of the second judge's status and undermining his legality a blow to the principle of the judge's intransmissibility, and that an unlawful blow to the principle of the intransmissibility of the judge? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] There he is! And question two. We have talked many times about the fact that nearly a thousand judges they are judges in an active state appointed by the Council of State. We never said we were questioning their convictions. Please answer the question as to whether, in accordance with this draft law and in accordance with the will of the Sejm majority, we can challenge judgments handed down by judges appointed by the Council of State or not. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u110	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Adam Szłapka, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u111	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Banasia guys! This bill, Banasia's guys, eliminates the independence of the judge. No, but that's rude. Why? You know exactly why. 'Cause you need a technology string: Banas, a case, Ziobra's attorney's office, Kaminski's services, and a courtesy judge... What about the painting? That's why you need it so that there's impunity so that there's an envelope of 50,000 in Novgorodska. That's what impunity is for. You need impunity so that Krakow's pimps can call Banas, Sasin, or maybe Ziobra. That's what you need this bill for. [[Applause]] But that's not all you want to change the election mode of the first Supreme Court president, no matter what it takes to be elected by Andrzej Duda because you're afraid of losing in the presidential election. Why do you need this? [[Applause]] You win. Because the First President of the Supreme Court is the President of the Court of State, and that's what you're talking about. You're afraid of being responsible for breaking the law, for breaking the Constitution, and for all your issues. The source of this bill is your fear, cowards, your fear. Fear, for justice will come upon you. [[Applause]] Call Banasia. Bite your tongue. Call Banasi.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u112	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mrs Wanda Nowicka, parliamentary club of the Left. ...but Mr Kanthak is not afraid. Give me the money! Madam, just a moment. I'm still asking for a moment of silence so that your messenger can ask the question calmly. Mr. Marshal doesn't respond to invectives... And I'm asking you not to interfere with the proceedings. You're welcome, Mrs. Messenger.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u113	Thank you, Marshal. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The PiS draft law on common courts and the Supreme Court raises huge social concerns. Yesterday thousands of people went out on the street all over the country. I warmly greet the protesters now under the Seym. People are terrified, afraid that the introduction of repression and political control of independent judges is actually directed at us, citizens and citizens. If the bill is passed, no one will be able to be sure that the judgment in his case will be just and taken in good faith or that it will result in political pressure. [[Game in the O.R.]] But the marshal is doing great. Citizens and citizens went out on the street yesterday because they're afraid that this bill will get us out of the European Union, and that's not what we're going to do. There are many threats in this bill. I'd like to ask the applicants about the definition of a legal judge. The Ombudsman points out that if the President were to be given unlimited prerogatives to appoint judges... Time's up. ...would have been able to appoint a convicted person, a minor, a person without a M.A., not to mention legal education. [[The chairmanship of the proceedings includes the Marshal of the Sejm Elizabeth Witek]] Thank you very much, Member. Minister, do you really want to replace judges with criminals or minors? Will everyone now be able to be a judge, and the only criterion will be obedience to authority? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u114	Thank you very much, Member. Madame, you have extended considerably. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Teresa Wargock. Mrs Teresa Wargock. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u115	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The opposition and some of the judges supporting the opposition as leitmotiv fighting for free courts, in defense of the judge caste, chose the word "constitution." It's time to turn on... Time, Marshal. Time, Marshal, time doesn't count. Art. 178 of the Constitution makes it very clear that the judge cannot belong to a political party, cannot belong to trade unions and cannot conduct public activities contrary to the rules. But he has to defend the Constitution. It's simple. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a constitution. Tell me, who caused the justice system to be so criticised now? It is the opposition and you have convinced all Poles that some judges are politicians, they stand on the side of the opposition, and it is your fault. [[Applause]] Bravo! Time's up. Mr applicant, I ask you to answer the question whether this draft law will allow the constitutional principle of independence of judges to be implemented and respected without political involvement. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] That's what I'm talking about!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u116	Thank you, Member. I would ask you to ask Mr Bartłomiej Sienkiewicz, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u117	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Clearly, the bill presented by the Member of the applicant is unacceptable despite all the cynical justifications we have witnessed. [[Applause]] My question is: What is the essence of this law? Or else: What fear is behind this project? Is it a fear that someday, regardless of authority, judges will look in the courtroom and decide how the resources of the Justice Fund are spent by the current Minister of Justice? Is it a fear that one day he will be examined in the courtroom by a politically independent judge, how did the famous program work for prisoners? I understand this project. This fear is real. Someday this moment will come. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] And one last thing. Montesquius, who has been called here many times, once warned in his dystopia by the rule of troglodytes. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're approaching this dystopia faster and faster. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u118	Thank you, sir. Montesquius also said, "I do not ask what the laws are, but what the judges are." I ask Mr Dariusz Olszewski, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u119	Thank you, Marshal. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'd like to ask you about disciplinary penalties. Are judges an extraordinary caste that is not subject to any legal sanctions? What about Would stealing a flash drive, a drill get away with anything other than a thief? Dude! Should we allow the status of individual judges to be called into question and, consequently, undermine their judgments in various cases? That's the point. Do you want to anarchize the Polish justice system, challenge judgments establishing the acquisition of an inheritance, damages or convictions of criminals, including thieves? Thank you very much. And the envelopes? Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u120	Thank you, sir. I would ask you to ask Katarzyna Lubnauer. You're welcome. It says so right here. How long can you say judges are thieves? They are. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm. You're going to jail for this. Madame, do not frighten the Members in the Parliament's Chamber. And the speaker's taking the floor. Please, Madame Katarzyna Lubnauer is asking a question. Please, Member. These are criminal threats, ma'am. Penalty threats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u121	Can you calm him down? What, they didn't steal? But, as you can see, you are pointing to the right. Please, madam, I would like to ask you a question. I ask the right and left side to remain calm. You're welcome. You're welcome, my fellow Member. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Member, I asked you to do something. This law is often referred to as the muzzle law. I would call it a law on helplessness and impunity. The powerlessness of citizens with regard to power and the impunity of this power. Someone here was talking about a special caste. Yes, you want to be under this bill an extraordinary caste of unpunished people, and this is what this bill is meant to be for you. That's what the judges call themselves. Did you ever wonder what would happen when proverbial Kowalski faced a dispute with power when he collided like Sebastian K. with the Prime Minister's car or when, like many Poles, he would have a dispute over tax or property? Have you ever wondered what it would be like if a representative of this authority were to be brought to justice, this Banas or the one who stole from the PCK, stealing from the poorest? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Then he'll be unpunished. All these questions must be answered, that this law gives you impunity and helplessness to the citizen. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's why we can't allow it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u122	Thank you, Member. I ask Mr Arkadius Myrch to ask a question. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm really asking you and the right side and the left side to remain calm. There aren't a lot of questions left. Please respect the Member who is on the stand.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u123	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This most repressive act since 1989 you have laughed at the Poles in the face. You are issuing to this repressive judicial law a Member who, due to his lack of competence and being a symbol of the destruction of the courts, has not been admitted to work in the law department. [[Applause]] You are posting this bill when the Poles saw your Marian Banas running a shady business. You put this bill in the moment the Poles saw your people robbing the PCK. You put in this bill when the Poles saw that you were taking money from people with disabilities. And Marshal Grodzki... You are imposing a law which can be regarded as a milestone on the road to the exit of Poland from the European Union after the adverse judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which has just shown how far your practices are from EU standards. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you, sir. And, Your Marshal, instead of exposing the letters of support to the people sitting in the KRS... Mr President, I would like to ask you a question. ...you're putting in a law that doesn't allow us to talk about it. Thank you, sir. For the protection of your people, you are making a banasi republic out of Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u124	I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Barbara Dolniak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u125	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! You're saying this is a parliamentary project. So I have a question for you. When did you start working on this project - before or after the European Court gave its ruling? If before, when? After. Which of the Members prepared what part of this project? What chapter was he subject to? What expert opinions did you use? Curiosity first to hell. On this speaker, Mr President, curiosity is essential, because we come to the bottom of the topic. Which of the experts served your opinion in the preparation of this project? We're experts ourselves. Who wrote the justification for this project? Because, ladies and gentlemen, we heard from this speaker that today 700 posts are unattended and that it is the opposition's fault, and even recently there was a shout from this speaker that there are too many judges in Poland when we heard that judges are subject to constitution and laws. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Only, sir, these laws must be in line with the constitution. They're here. They're here. They're not compatible. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Who's deciding? Because that's why we need a constitution? So we have a question of who and when was preparing this project. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If we don't get an answer, it will confirm our statement that this is a government project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u126	Thank you very much, Commissioner, for asking the question. I would ask you to ask Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u127	High Izbo! This project is a blow directly to the heart of the Constitution. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Ooh... Its aim is to abolish the independence of the judges. And you reported this project on the anniversary of the martial law. And that is the question to Minister Ziobra: Who is behind this project? Isn't that the judge you made your first deputy in 2005, the communist judge, the martial law judge, the judge who put the opponents in jail? Those are your patterns? Here's another thing. You got the power, you got the money. What do you need now? It's impunity. Social support. The Justice Fund. Where'd he go? Friends of Solidarna Polska. And Pegasus. The Fund works for prisoners. Who are the subcontractors? Reveal those names. He's lying to his eyes. And what did the president do? The president switched Montesquius to Machiavelli. The goal sanctifies the means, even if behavior is unethical. These are your patterns. Where is he now? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Like a doughnut in butter disappeared and stood you up, young wolves. Shame on you for him. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u128	Thank you very much, sir. I ask Mr Paweł Kowal, the Civic Coalition, to ask a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u129	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is important to say today, not so much in this House, because in this House everyone has probably already said everything, there is no need to expose themselves to malicious smiles, but to the citizens of Poland, that in all this, there is some fundamental falsehood in this project. If you really think that this bill is so important, if you really think that it should be well prepared, if you really care about the welfare of Polish citizens and the sense of justice, then why is it prepared in this way? Let's tell everyone who listens to us today that this is not the way to make good laws. You know you're not telling the truth. That's not how you make a setup. The law should be after consultation, the law should be prepared. Someone's playing somebody, somebody's trying to trick somebody. I have one more question. There was a meeting this week between the Prime Minister and the ministers and business representatives. For Polish business, this is a fundamental issue: the certainty of the courts. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So, what's the business say? What business, the investors, the fact that on the one hand they're being blinded by the fact that we're in favour of investing to get them involved, and on the other hand, they're doing this kind of thing? Mr President, finish up. Did the Prime Minister explain this to business representatives? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u130	Thank you, sir. I invite Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Civic Coalition. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Hold on a little longer, sir. I'm asking you to stop your emotions. Please, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u131	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The truth is that there are already no independent services and investments in Poland that could solve your problems. All we've got left is unhindered judges and insubordinate citizens protesting in the streets against what you're doing. We have a minister of justice and a prosecutor general who controls the prosecution manually, and he's involved in a heifer scandal at the Ministry of Justice. We have a task force coordinator who was hiding the truth about Marian Banasi until the media found out. We have a head of NIK who's having trouble explaining to the public the origins of his assets, including cash accidentally stored in his home drawer. What about the Senate Marshal? And Prime Minister Morawiecki, who let the VAT mob into the Ministry of Finance, hides his real estate statement. Why do you need the power of the courts? To be a judge on your own case. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u132	Thank you, Member. I invite Mrs Katarzyna Maria Bakerska, the Civic Coalition. [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there are really only two questions left to finish, so please stop these emotions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u133	My dear Miss Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, You don't have that sense of abstinence... I'm the plaintiff. I'm the plaintiff. Allow me, Mrs... Don't you have such a sense of abstinence that you're pushing a project that's unconstitutional? Here are the opinions. In addition, there are still a lot of opinions that are widely available. On each page of these opinions it says that this project is unconstitutional. Don't you have such a sense of abstinence? But who wrote that? Don't you have a sense of abstinence and shame that, at the request of Mr. D.A. Święczkowski, prosecutors will pursue judges instead of prosecuting criminals? [[Applause]] Not chasing, just checking. Pursue. I will, ladies and gentlemen. Aren't you worried we're on the verge of polexit? And I'm gonna say this. Because... [[Game in the O.R.]] No... Shh... Your Marshal, extend me. I already asked. I will extend it, my fellow Member. Since Christmas is coming, I, Mr applicant, and your family, wish you all the best. Nice to meet you, too. And I have a present for you. It's a constitution. It's already been done. He got it. Santa was good.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u134	Thank you very much, Member. You're welcome to the last speaker. Mrs Joanna Jaśkowiak, Civic Coalition. [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to ask you really very much to give the speaker the opportunity to ask a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u135	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There have been many beautiful words and many words that dripping with hypocrisy and rubbing themselves with lies. It is not disputed that the contested law is, firstly, incompatible with our constitution, secondly, incompatible with EU law. This was also acknowledged by the Sejm Office of Seym Analysis. I'm not talking about the opinions of the Supreme Court or the ombudsman. I would like to ask one question to my fellow Members in PiS: Do you realise that you are taking away each one of us with your own hands, too... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No, Mr. Cymanski. Hit the table, the scissors will talk. And that's the first thing in your head that knocks, you think. No, you take away the right to court and the right to a fair trial... On the phone. ...in front of an independent, impartial and independent court. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would like to ask the rapporteur... Thank you very much. ...what he will do when his political cooperation with Minister Ziobra is dispersed. There's a stick on everyone. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u136	Thank you very much, Member. Ladies and gentlemen, the list of speakers has run out. Minister... [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, once again, please calm down. What about the gallery? I'm sorry, Member, but I wasn't here, so I don't know what was in the gallery. However, I have learned that there was something, and I assure you that when I find out, I will inform your Members and the House as a whole. Okay, here we go. Mr Jachira's colleague was disturbing the peace. Ladies and gentlemen! If you have asked so many questions, I understand that you will now listen calmly to the answer. I invite the Minister of Justice of Mr Zbigniew Zioba. You're welcome, Minister. And those were questions. Not to the minister. Those were the questions to the Member of the applicant. Mr President, you know very well that the Minister can speak at any time. And the applicant will also take the floor. Take it easy. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u137	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The unlawful questioning of the status of judges appointed by the current National Council of Courts and the accompanying process of extreme pressure on them to suspend and, as a rule, cease their judgments is an unparalleled proof that, indeed, in Poland, action is being taken which is aimed at the foundations, the foundations of the Polish justice system. The pressure was in your ministry. Who supported them? This can be compared to the explosive charge planted under the pillars of the Polish judiciary, when millions of Polish citizens who have so far been taken hostage by them, who have so far been able to count on the fact that the judgments that have been passed in their cases over the last 30 years, if they have already become valid, are sure and guarantee their rights. They guaranteed legal certainty. And they can also count now, in proceedings before the courts, that these judgments will be handed down - and undisputed - by judges entitled to do so. But if we agree to this kind of principle that has just been created in the Supreme Court, that here we can question the status of a judge... It's at the Court of Justice of the European Union. ...who had previously been appointed by the President of the Republic, whether by President Andrzej Duda or by the President of the Republic of Poland. Lech Kaczynski, or President Bronisław Komorowski, or President Lech Wałęsa, or President Alexander Kwaśniewski, we are introducing enormous confusion, chaos, danger of anarchy, which will cause... There are children here. Don't lie in front of the children. ...full anarchy of the Polish judiciary. And we're not gonna let that happen. [[Applause]] In the interest of Polish citizens, we will not allow politicians who have entered certain courtrooms and who have been emotionally influenced by a part of the judicial community to take over the discretion and responsibility for the Polish state, for legal certainty and for the proper functioning of the Polish judiciary. We will bring the reform to an end, and when it comes to the end, judge us on the basis of the effects, the effects, because we want to take responsibility for this as opposed to you. Just please don't disturb us. For 30 years, very different political forces in Poland tried to reform the judiciary and each time as an inviolable principle they assumed that as regards the judicial corporation, which has huge power and powers, there could be no breach of its sphere of power and competence. And the truth is that the adopted judicial model in Poland is a corporate model, and it is not the ministers of justice of individual governments, whether it was left-wing, right-wing, centred governments, who decided what was going on in the judiciary, it was not the judicial procedures, the legal procedures adopted in Parliament were leading to the efficiency of the judiciary, but the organisation of the environment for which it was responsible, remaining completely outside democratic control. This model failed. And that's what we need to be clear about. And that's why we have this consequence in our quest for change. And in the opinion of very many experts, people who look at the justice system from the side, recently those who have touched his weaknesses, such as Mr.Singwak, who represents the environment from the left, this is a conclusion that comes to mind. But so that this reform can be brought to an end and that you can severely judge whether it is working or not, we cannot allow this system to be completely shaken by its foundations to be subjected to a systematic process of anarchy and chaos. If, while continuing this thought, this logic, we should assume that it is indeed possible to question the status of a judge whom one or another President will appoint, to assume that this can be done when the current National Judicial Council took part in this process, we would also have to assume that such a examination of the status of a judge may be carried out by other judges in relation to those representatives of the third authority who were elected by the previous National Judicial Council. And I would like to draw your attention to a minor detail, but it is very important that it was the Constitutional Tribunal that, in relation to the previously functioning National Council of Courts, said that over a period of several years, it had acted in a manner contrary to the Constitution that it had acted in an improper manner contrary to the Constitution. She was elected as a collegial body, which was supposed to be a cadence body, and, in the meantime, she was deprived of this term of office as a joint term for all its members. Thus, this constitutional defect, confirmed by the Constitutional Court's judgment, casts the impression that the vocations and resolutions adopted by this body are defective and thus give rise to questioning the status of judges. And this is the vast majority of today's judges. Look at what this kind of agreement leads to if you question what even the TSUE's judgment has not questioned, stating hard, directly, that the President's decisions to appoint a judge are not subject to any control. [[Applause]] And pay attention to that. He didn't say that. Well, if we're following this logic, let's go a step further. And look: In Poland there are nearly 1 thousand. judges which were not appointed by the National Judicial Council in one or another edition, neither the one elected by the Polish democratic parliament nor the one chosen and created by the judicial community itself. There are about 1,000 in Poland. judges who have their title to fulfil the judicial authority, the third power, on behalf of the Republic of Poland, the democratic Republic, from where do they draw? That's not true. They're coming from the decision of the Communist Council of State. I wouldn't want to... And then Lech Kaczyński among others. Understand me, I don't discredit all those judges in the gym. I think there's a lot of judges out there... Exactly. ...decent, though they were, and those who certainly cannot be counted as decent. But there's no question... With a formal application. ...that's about $1,000. Judges who have their source of judicial authority in the decisions of the Communist Council of the State are asked what is the nature of their power and whether... Pleasant, Pleasant. If we allow you to examine the legality, legitimacy of this or other judicial council, then... You're lying... ...can we deny the right to examine the status of such judges who draw their power just from the legitimacy of a communist body that had what legitimacy? What about Przylebska? Democratic, parliamentary, was a sovereign body or was a fully subordinate body of the leading role of the Polish United Workers' Party, drawing his legitimacy from the Soviet army stationed in Poland, [[Applause]] Was it made up of party cameras? And it was he who determined whether those judges who were then appointed would constitute a guarantee, a guarantee of loyalty to the people's authority and that state. There are 1 000 judges like that. And there are thousands of such judges who have passed sentences over 30 years because we have not made any major changes like the GDR, where 80% of judges have been thanked and all others have been reappointed. We didn't do it. Do you want to open this Pandora box? Do you know what that means? Let's be consistent. When we introduce procedures, they will apply to all judges. Are those retiring judges retired? This is really calling demons in the judicial area. They acted in accordance with the laws of that time. And you're breaking the constitution. Be responsible, be wise, be reasonable. You are also responsible for the situation of Polish citizens. They'll see it if you cross a certain measure and a certain limit. We cannot move on to the agenda that someone is trying to convince Poles that resolutions taken by the Communist Council of the State are important and binding, and resolutions taken by the National Council of the judiciary, elected by the democratic Polish parliament, emanation of the sovereign Polish state, probably imperfect, full of flaws, but democratic and sovereign, also chosen by the qualified... But it's against the constitution. ...mostly 3/5 votes, so much bigger than the one that's needed to establish a government... We cannot agree that when it comes to resolutions taken by the National Judicial Council, consisting mostly of judges appointed - I will remind you - mostly by the presidents... Let's see the protocols. I don't know who picked them. ... Wałęsa, Kwaśniewski to the greatest extent, those judges who are today on the National Council of Courts, by Mr Komorowski... Judgment of the court, Minister. ................................................................................................................................................................................................................ President Kaczyński too, yes, these judges have a lower status than the apparatusers of the Communist Council of State. A real horse with a row of those who can prove it. The kids won't believe it. Don't be naive. The NSA's verdict. What kind of language is that? That argument is worth laughing at. Don't get carried away. Incidentally, I have to tell you, there's a lot of trouble... The nail. ...he will now have the TSUE, because here is one of the judges of the Supreme Court just yesterday, as I read, a question to the Court of Justice of the European Union. He's gonna have a disciplinary officer. Let me quote it because it's significant. Namely, whether it is an independent and impartial court and having the appropriate qualifications within the meaning of European Union law, the body in which a person appointed for the first time or another to serve as a judge by a political executive body of a state with a totalitarian, non-democratic, communist system of power, i.e. by the Council of the State of the Polish People's Republic, sits on a proposal from the Minister of Justice of that communist State, the Polish People's Republic, in particular given the lack of transparency of the criteria for appointment, the possibility of appealing the judge at any time, the lack of participation in the procedure of the nomination of the judiciary and the lack of appropriate public authorities formed in democratic elections, which could undermine the confidence of... It's hard. He's losing his voice. ...what kind of judiciary should inspire a democratic society? Well, that question will have to be answered by the TSUE and let's wait and see how it answers. Ladies and gentlemen! There is no doubt that if we do not set up a dam for these anarchization processes which are trying to enter the Polish judiciary, it will be dramatic and will have pitiful consequences for the Polish society. Our job is to protect the interests of Poles. Therefore, we will not agree to such experiments, which in the name of particular interests, the defence of the interests of the extraordinary caste, the defence of this pathology, which develops over 30 years, the defence of these criminal events, which I will also quote to you in my own time - said your representatives of science, to which you often refer, people who are certainly authorities for your communities in the judicial field... I have already quoted this, but it is always worth recalling these words, the words of President Andrzej Rzepliński of 2004 from the Gazeta Wyborcza. Well, he said that the courts and judges gather more negative assessments, more negative ones than positive ones in public opinion polls. It's about 2004 - adds the media - they report about a great deal of professionalism about the flawless character of corruption scandals, drunken judges in courthouses, drunken judges behind the wheel of cars, judges responsible for common crimes. As for the part of the scandals... Everyone's drunk. Are your guys sober? ...the current statutory correction mechanisms... But this is a quote. It's Rzepliński. Respect Mr. Rzepliński, whom I quote here. As for the parts of these scandals, the statutory correction mechanisms so far are helpless against the force of the agreement, against the manifestations of the demonstrated... Yours, ours. ...publicly the mentality of the besieged fortress of the most important structures of our judiciary. What did you mean? No wonder, in the light of these words, how up-to-date... So many for one? I fully agree with them and subscribe to what Professor Rzepliński said. Why does such a huge attack go primarily on the Disciplinar Chamber, which has finally begun consistently and quickly to expel discredited people, judges and prosecutors - it does not last for months or years - which has finally decided to waive immunity when they have not been lifted? Let me give you an example from my time as the Attorney General, and a well-known media example. On such a hobby, thefts in supermarkets, a marriage was caught: the judge of the Court of Appeal in Wrocław, by the way, the tavern, and his wife. The wife was charged with criminal charges within 48 hours. And the judge? The D.A.'s attorneys fought for a year and a half to get him out of immunity. And that's changed because it's the Disciplinary Chamber. That's why they're so scared of this Disciplinary Chamber because they want it to be what it was to defend pathology. [[Applause]] That's what this is about. And we believe that the Polish society deserves ethical judges. And ministers. We also believe that most judges, who are decent, do not deserve to function and feel unpunished, just like the famous Supreme Court judge, whom President Duda recently mentioned, whose statement can be heard on the Internet when he talked in a corrupt context about writing the cassation, advised how to write it to the court where his colleagues were to recognize this cassation. Are we gonna know the charges for Banasi or not? It is significant that Mrs Gersdorf did not disgust her and, because a colleague, a judge, did not initiate any disciplinary proceedings, did not file a notice to the prosecutor's office, and did not even dismiss him from the management function. Because they don't mind. They feel like... Yeah, like who? Fish in muddy water. Banas is a judge? Well, they feel great about it. And we want to cut off this extraordinary caste's well-being in favour of standards of honesty... You're the extraordinary caste out of the law. ...and create mechanisms that will work because the Polish state, because Poles expect it. [[Applause]] Bravo! Well, ladies and gentlemen, this law actually protects and restores normality in Polish judiciary. This law upholds the democratic rule of law, opposing the judiciary, which is being tried through the back door... A psocracy. ... causing chaos, anarchy and lawlessness at the same time. What about those prison scams, Minister, in your department? Was there a lot of tenders? Where there's no certainty who the judge is, because every judge can be questioned. How many of those tenders were there? Where there is no certainty about what sentence has been given, because any sentence can be challenged. Where the interests of citizens don't matter, because all that matters is the interests of the extraordinary caste. How's Piebik? And that's what we want to change. Help us with this. [[Applause]] Bravo, Minister!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u138	Thank you, Minister. I just have a huge request for you. Every one of you who is on this platform, and during the speech, voices from the hall, are asking me to react, because it's bothering you. So I ask you very much to bear this in mind, and when anyone speaks from this platform... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I have said to one side and to the other, Mr President. I'm reproving both sides. That's what's important. Then you're welcome. When the Minister speaks, it is as if you are speaking. It doesn't matter. So I'm asking you to, I'm warning you... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] You weren't there, sir. I warned you. And the right side more than the left side. I ask all of you to respect the person who's on the stand. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk with a formal request. You're welcome, sir. Weapons clearance.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u139	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! He's gonna apply for a gun permit. How are the charges? I'm asking you to calm down. Art. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 the Constitution provides that the National Judicial Council is to uphold the independence of the courts and the independence of the judges. The opposition considers that the neo-KRS is not an independent body, as the Supreme Court has also stated. But I wanted to ask if your marshal gave you a chance... But this is a formal conclusion. Mr President, you have made a formal request. This is a formal conclusion. What's the point? Don't interrupt me right now. Did your marshal give the President of the neo-KRS a chance to speak in the Sejm in defence of the independence of judges and the independence of the courts? That's not a conclusion, no. The Constitution assumes it. It's a publicist. I quoted the recipe just now. Time's up. Conclusion! Mr President, I'm sorry, time is running out. I'm asking for a formal motion. What are you asking for? Formal conclusion. What? If your marshal didn't invite the Chairman of the National Judicial Council to this meeting, where a lynching is held on independent judges... It's gotta be quicker. It's gotta be quicker. Conclusion! ...then I'm asking you to do it in accordance with the article. Paragraph 184. 7 You postponed the next part of the debate until the President of the National Courts invited and arrived.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u140	Thank you, sir. You know perfectly well that I cannot accept this proposal. This is not a formal conclusion. Thank you very much. Mr Sebastian Kaleta, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, please take the floor. You're welcome, Minister. This is a parliamentary project?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u141	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I listened to some of the opposition's representatives who are looking for different forms of rhetoric to oppose this very important project, which is to stabilise the legal system in Poland, because some judges, together with opposition policies, are trying to destabilize what is the basis of every state, the rule of law. Some of these speeches were sometimes, you can say, even funny. You seem to be so serious about the fight for free courts, as you say, and this morning you showed how much your fight was worth: you weren't at the vote, and this way we can calmly proceed on this project. Thank you so much for that. [[Applause]] I have been listening for a week to various speeches about how these regulations are restrictive, unusual, even totalitarian. In the media I read statements about the fact that the spirit of law behind these laws is actually close to Nazi Germany, and Mrs Gasiuk-Pihowicz talks about some Soviet spirit... She sees ghosts. I will be the one who will be glad to give you, including your fellow Member, a very powerful knowledge of how disciplinary action works in the various countries of the European Union, so that we can consider this important bill... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Have you read it? Relax, don't be afraid of the truth, honourable Members. Moravian statement, please. The truth will set you free. What does that have to do with anything? You talk a lot about Europe. There you go. Charges for Banas. We will have more knowledge, making an important decision on how to shape disciplinary provisions in Polish law. It's about transparency. We want to know. I think everyone in this room will agree with me that a judge who, in an obvious, gross way insults the law or fails to respect the dignity of the office should be liable to disciplinary action. Right? I can hear that rumbling in the gym. Meanwhile, ladies and gentlemen, this is the wording of a rule that has been in force in Poland for almost 18 years. That's what it looks like. But now, when I invite you to this journey across Europe, I encourage you to listen to these sometimes very surprising legislative proposals. Here we go: Belarus. We only have five proposals for disciplinary delicacies, but in some countries there are even dozens of them. I'm starting with France. You've already been compromised once. Fork. Everyone can hear, everyone will judge. I will read to you the sworn translation of the rule - in several versions it is available, also on the Internet - about the limits of the functioning of judges in the public life in France. First recipe... About being part of a political party, too? In what mode? But the minister told me. There are no parties, there are trade unions. Trade unions. The participation of members of the judiciary in political debates is prohibited. [[Applause]] Oh... The judges shall be prohibited from demonstrating hostility to the principles of action or form of government of the Republic, [[Applause]] as well as any political speeches which do not comply with the restrictions on their function. And please... [[Touchdown, applause]] Could they be political parties? They can. Simple. Bravo. Manipulation. Madame, can you give us a rule... Can they or can't they? Not to my knowledge. The European Union. Not to my knowledge, but... [[Game in the O.R.]] Quiet. Ladies and gentlemen... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] But it hurts, doesn't it? Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Sebastian Kalet: But take it easy, Member, take it easy. But, Commissioner, please don't yell out of the hall because this is not a discussion. Don't yell at me from the gym. I asked for it. But they can wear yellow vests? Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Sebastian Kalet: Any joint action which may prevent or impede the functioning of the courts shall also be prohibited. That's the translation. Anyone can argue with him in terms of interpretation, but it seems to me that on average the listener is able to understand what it means to prohibit the demonstration of hostility towards the government or to prohibit participation in political debates. [[Applause]] Bravo! Now I invite you to Croatia. In Croatia, judges cannot perform... Disciplinary delicacies are described in nine acts. Nine distinctly defined acts, of which... Request for correction, Marshal... One of them is: Causes disturbances in the work of the court, which significantly affects the functioning of the justice system. Another measure: To cause damage to the image of the justice system or the judicial office in another way. But these Croatians have judges, don't they? [[Applause]] Oh, there's still some curiosity. Imagine that the Ministry of Justice is submitting a project entitled: Why don't you let the judges examine the doctor? What would happen? I wanted to correct... This is a formal conclusion. Sit down. Totalitarianism. And in Croatia, a disciplinary judge is responsible for failing to undergo physical and mental capacity tests to continue office. Croatia. France - that's what I said. Now Spain. By the way, our KRS is shaped like Spain. There no one protests against it, the Union does not work, and here, too, the Union has not spoken in power on this matter of our KRS, so we know how it is. An example of very serious disciplinary delicacies in Spain: Conscious violation of the obligations of fidelity to the Constitution of Spain, membership of political parties or trade unions, repeated disputes with the electoral district authorities in which the judge serves for reasons independent from the jurisdictional function, interference through orders or pressures, the exercise of jurisdiction of another judge. [[Applause]] Here I will allow myself to stay in two cities: Szczecin and Wrocław. In the case of Polish judges, it is rather difficult to say that judges in these cities appear publicly and are in dispute with important politicians who have courts in these cases, but in Wrocław we saw how the judge, who is to judge Mr.Józef Pinior, meets him at demonstrations in defense of the courts. And he's supposed to judge. And he speaks. Together with Mr. Zdrojewski, they appear in a common photograph. What happened yesterday? Mr. Gawłowski, senator with serious corruption charges... How's Rooster? ...incentivizes the manifestation. Who appears and speaks? A judge drawn to his case. That's what it looks like. Scandal! Disgraceful! There's no way to draw the same judge three times where the PiS has a case. Now Luxembourg: Any action committed in connection with the performance of judicial duties or outside the performance of those duties, which is intended to result, among others, in the performance of judicial duties. the scandal, the embarrassment of the justice system, or any other breach of judicial responsibilities. Romania. It's very interesting here, ladies and gentlemen. Unfortunately, I wouldn't have enough time if I had to read all the delicacies because there are them, ladies and gentlemen, 13. ... break the constitution. But among other things. one of the delicacies is: conduct that violates professional honor or integrity, or prestige of justice, committed in the performance of or outside the performance of the duties of the services, demonstrating political beliefs in the performance of their duties, unjustified refusal to fulfil the duty of service. We've heard some judges say, "I'm gonna judge with this judge, I'm not gonna rule with that. In Romania they have a recipe for this, and we report a project, muzzle, repression. And then there's the interesting thing. In Romania, a disciplinary measure is the failure to comply with the decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal. Bravo! Maybe the pimps don't call Banas. We just have this recipe, and in Poland we all see... Romania is leaving the Union. ...though from the experience of the Verification Committee, Mrs... The Court gives judgments long ago and the administrative courts They don't always want to listen to them. And in Poland in the Ministry of Justice there is a heiter scandal. Now, here's the interesting thing about Slovakia. This is where we're going in really... The Slovaks have an imagination here. 21 different disciplinary delicacies. Imagine that the Minister of Justice proposes a provision that judges should be examined before work with a breathalyzer. In Slovakia, it is. [[Touchdown, applause]] Oh... In Slovakia, it is. Yeah, not giving in to that kind of research is a tough disciplinary measure. Another country. There's gonna be adjustments. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Something, something. Maybe. Perhaps it is worth using these patterns of our neighbours, our partners from the European Union. If we're being repressed like this, then let's have them with us, right? You're funny about what you're doing. I'm glad I'm entertaining you with facts. And this Deputy Minister of the Interior had... Now it's Slovenia. Slovenia. Here Slovenia is bidding even more. 27 different disciplinary delicacies defined, which are what judges cannot do. A judicial Eurovision. E.g. That's what it is, ladies and gentlemen... Here, this Slovakia is an awful lot of cards. If I were quoting, I'd really... Slovenia: Failure or unjustified refusal to carry out duties related to the judicial office. We all hear that some judges don't want to rule with specific judges. It's another country that's prepared for the fact that the judges won't want to work. And now: Abuse the right to dismiss the judge. Oh. Oh... And do we see what Mrs. Gersdorf is doing in the Supreme Court? President Gersdorf. Madam President, you are the first president of the Supreme Court, Professor Dr. Hab. Margaret Gersdorf - I apologize for the error - what is she doing in the Supreme Court? Slovenia has solutions ready. And now a very interesting provision from Slovenia: wrong - this is another disciplinary measure - unworthy or offensive behavior or speech towards individuals, public authorities or legal persons in connection with or outside the performance of judicial duties. Now, these judges who participated with Mr. Frasyniuk, Mr. Frasyniuk cursed there, and they were happy, so Slovenia has a recipe. And such a curiosity, because you question this new House of Disciplinars, which increases standards in Polish judiciary in the end. There's a weird situation out there. Fuckin' raises standards, too. Do you know who removes judges in Slovenia as a result of disciplinary action? Parliament. Yes, an independent parliament elected by people, politicians. Yes. Fame, you hear me? Indefensible? I hope you saw the irony. Now Italy. Well, here's the bidding on the whole: 31 disciplinary delicacies. And in Italy we have a very interesting case, which also concerns behaviours, situations that we had in Poland. Namely, it is a disciplinary measure to allow unjustified interference, pressure on the judicial activity of another judge. What else is it to call on some judges, including the media, to make sure that other judges do not rule if they do not insist on their independence? The Italians predicted this and do not have to worry about the situations that we have today, because they have very extensive rules on disciplinary delicacies. That's where you even shoot the judges. Ladies and gentlemen, now we have to answer the question of whether we want Europe or whether we want the highest standards of justice or not. It seems to me that - here unfortunately I am battling my chest as one of the Members of the applicants - that these solutions... You're the minister. You're speaking on behalf of the government. But I am also one of the Members who signed this bill. In what mode are you speaking now? I speak in a manner that you know as a representative of the Ministry of Justice... From Slovakia or Romania? ...and I presented the information the Ministry has. And who wrote this bill? I'm battling my chest, because the opposition, while waiting for the highest standards, encourages us to simply, as in other countries, enter 30 different disciplinary delicacies. In short - you want Europe, you have Europe. You were disturbed by France, Germany... [[Applause]] Jesus, Mary. ... Croatia, Slovenia, Italy, Romania, Bulgaria. Bravo! A judicial Eurovision. It just shows what your hypocrisy is like. This isn't about defending free courts. This is only about blocking the key reform of the justice system for Poland. On behalf of the government, yes. We'll finish this reform. [[Applause]] Bravo, Seba!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u142	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, as I see that Members are still coming together, there will certainly not be a vote before an hour. 3:30. The applicant will continue to speak, so no earlier than at hours. 3:30. Then I'll announce a recess after the performance... And the chairman of the KRS? Mr President, I will read it so that it is clear, Art. 171: The Marshal of the Sejm, at the latest for 7 days - this happened - before the planned meeting, announces the date and agenda of this meeting of Members, the President, the Marshal of the Senate, members of the Council of Ministers, the First President of the Supreme Court, the President of the Constitutional Court, the Prosecutor General, the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, the President of the National Bank of Poland, the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child. That's what happened - if you wanted to come, they'd just be here. Thank you very much, sir. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u143	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There is still a formulation in the political and public debates that is used by opposition politicians, the alleged new KRS, the neo-KRS, the politicised KRS. Where are the letters of support? Where is it? Sentence... Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to quote an article. 187 constitutions that say... Please quote. ...that the National Judicial Council consists of 15 members chosen from among the judges of the Supreme Court, universal courts, administrative courts and military courts. No statutory amendment has changed or violated the Constitution. But, ladies and gentlemen, maybe you don't remember how in your reign... How many are selected by the Sejm for KRS? ... The Civic Platform adopted a resolution in 2014 to bring together representatives of the General Assembly of District Judges on electoral ordination to the National Council of the Court of Justice. You, defending this unconstitutional National Judicial Council and all the judges' issues, are like a wolf who dresses in sheep's skin. I will remind you of the words of the judges of the General Assembly of the District Courts in Warsaw in 2014, when you ruled: Undemocratic curian elections, in which the election census is used in the form of a post of office. Such rules may divide or even divide the judicial environment. What have you done with it? You didn't do anything. It was necessary to wait for the Attorney General to refer the application to the Constitutional Court to assess these provisions constitutionally. The rapporteur should answer questions, not say what we have not done. But what's going on in all this dispute, ladies and gentlemen? In a dispute between... Answer the questions better, boy. ...total opposition and the United Right is about fundamental issues... Did you listen to the questions? ...as in 2005, in 2007, when Minister Zbigniew Ziobro attended the dead. Przemysław Gosiewski opened a legal competition. We all remember saying, "Do you want to go to law school?" The first question that came up was: Do you have anyone in your family? Because if you don't have someone in your family, then you're not gonna be a lawyer, you're not gonna be a lawyer, [[Applause]] You're not gonna be a notary. That's what happened. Thanks to the changes proposed by Zbigniew Ziobra and sleep. Przemysław Gosiewiski's exams are state-of-the-art and knowledge and competence determine whether someone will become a lawyer or legal counsel rather than a family collusion. And what it looked like in the last... Does it have something to do with this? ... National Judicial Council? The best example is the wife of the former vice-president of the National Courts, who was a candidate for the post of judge - 96 other candidates, imagine this - opinion given by the General Assembly of the Judges of the District Court in a clear negative way. Like Julia Przylebska. The candidate went to this supposedly apolitical and magnificent National Judicial Council. 96 other candidates and imagine who has become a judge - the wife of the vice-president of the National Courts of Justice, who has had a negative opinion by the General Assembly of Judges. That's what the judiciary looked like in previous governments. Right. Not only was it unconstitutional, it was still non-pluralistic and non-transparable. Let me remind you, it was the United Right who introduced the live broadcast. This gives the public the opportunity to watch the deliberations of the National Judicial Council. And you're talking about some political council? [[Applause]] Isn't it? Bravo! Anyone can see what's going on out there. Where? Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As a debutante, I'm embarrassed... So do we. ...because on the one hand you're in the media, you talk about this bill all the time, and when it comes to what, you have no substantive questions, no doubts. All we hear about is Banasio. There are no questions. But answer the question. Mr Budka spoke about ensuring impunity. Ladies and gentlemen, let's remind the story. At the end of the Civic Platform's rule, when Boris Budka served as Minister of Justice, one of the last acts carried out by the state concerned the shortening of the statute of limitations. That's what happened. What does it mean to shorten the statute of limitations? That bandits won't be responsible for their crimes. Disgraceful! That's right, Sławek. That's what happened during your reign. Mr Budek, as former minister, talks about ensuring impunity. Really, you need some nerve. Someone said, it seems that Mr Jarosław Rzepa - what people say on the streets. Perhaps the best thing people say about the streets is the testimony of Donald Tusk, who supposedly announced yesterday in Gdańsk that he was going to participate in protests, and then it turned out that signing a book at the European Solidarity Centre was more important. He was handing out autographs. This testimony from Donald Tusk shows what people are saying. That's what people say. This is a debate. What are you talking about? People say they want fair, efficient courts, and it is precisely this reform of the justice system proposed by the United Right that guarantees this through, among other things. the provisions proposed by the Members of the applicant. Like the Smolensk truth... I ask the High House to continue to process this law, because it is extremely important primarily from the point of view of citizens who want their judgments to be certain and not subject to any question. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u144	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in a moment. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm declaring a recess, which means not in a moment. I'm declaring a time-out. 15.40. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 minutes 10 hours 15 min 54]] I'm reopening the session. With a formal proposal from Mr Artur Łącki, the Civic Coalition. One minute, sir. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u145	This is a trade fair, sir. Without the scarf, I could file a formal application. Minister Kalet, it is good that you presented these delicacies that occur in other European countries, but you forgot to say that in these countries they were written down that they wanted to discipline judges who were thieves, lazy or some other. And you want to discipline judges not because they're thieves, lazy people, because they're no more... What's the conclusion? Formal conclusion. Mr President, listen to me. Mr President, I would like a formal request. I have a question for you, and it will be a formal conclusion. ...only because they have a different conscience than you and that they want to judge according to that conscience. And that's what's important. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Ha, ha, ha! Mr President, do you make a formal application? Time's up. Marshal, I have a formal motion for an hour's break. 16 and explaining to me, Member of the Parliament of the Republic of Poland of the first term of office, why does Marshal Terlecki want to discipline my colleagues, and me, for wearing a scarf with the inscription: Constitution? No. What's the crime, marshal? I want to know. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Genius.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u146	Thank you, sir. Thank you very much, sir. The request for a break has already been filed several times. There's been a formal motion for a recess, and we'll vote first... May I, Your Marshal? ...sir, request for a recess. But I'm here, too, if the marshal will allow it. There was a request for a recess. Do you have another Member? Would you like to take a break, too? There you go, Mr Gawkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u147	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm filing a formal request for a recess to convene the Seniors' Convention. We have the pleasure of having the Prime Minister in the courtroom. The Left Club requested, at its previous meeting, to hear information from Prime Minister Morawiecki on the matter of Mr Banasi. We do not forget, there is a matter that concerns the system of justice. We're on the right side, we're clear that we don't agree to that. Not about that. Mr Banasi's case is a disgrace to democracy, it is a disgrace to this House, because the person who is suspected of committing crimes is the head of the Supreme Auditorium. Prime Minister! We've been asking you to declassify the Central Corruption Bureau report. We have applied to you because we want to justify our request for a State Court for Mr Marian Banasi. We ask the Prime Minister to agree and submit to our request that such a discussion be held tomorrow. Your Marshal, I ask that we take a break and ask the Prime Minister to agree to this information. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u148	Thank you, sir. I just wanted to remind you that this matter has already been discussed several times, including this morning's session of the Sejm, Mr. You have abused the formal proposal, but because it has fallen, we will therefore vote, ladies and gentlemen, for a recess. You're welcome. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of announcing a break, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 211 was in favour, 230 against, 2 abstentions. I'll let you know the motion's gone. We continue to consider item 19 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the Law on the System of General Courts, the Law on the Supreme Court and some other laws. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. Before that, the question - Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz. One minute, Member. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u149	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Just a moment ago we witnessed a failed attempt by Mr Kalety's comparative analysis - e.g. French law and what the PiS is trying to introduce. And even here, Mr. Kalet wasn't polite to present the situation in truth... Minister Kaleta, Member of the Commission. I don't know if the Minister doesn't know if the Minister lied, but in France, the level of civil liberties for judges is much higher. They can be members of not only associations, but also political parties. This is a sideline. And I ask simple questions about your changes in the election of the first president of the Supreme Court. Why is it that only 32 judges will suddenly be elected as first president? Why would the President have the right to elect a first president against the constitution? Why are you doing this? Is it because you want to escape from the Court of State, whose work is presided over by the first president of the Supreme Court? [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u150	Thank you, Member. The question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Smishek, Left. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u151	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We listened to the right-hand side of the law eagles here for a long time. But listening long and carefully, we have not heard anything specific for citizens and citizens actually brings this bill. We didn't hear anything that would indicate that, for example. judicial proceedings will be shorter that fees will be lower, that they will finally move out of court unnecessary cases which are on the desks of judges who have to deal with minor issues. Today we ask the question very simply and unambiguously. What will the average Kowalski get in his alimony, divorce, labour law or criminal cases? What are the real benefits that this bill brings to Kowalski and Kowalska? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u152	Thank you, sir. The question is also asked by Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, PSL - Kukiz15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u153	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! We have witnessed many minutes of speeches, in which most of the country's attention was given to judges. There was little here about Poles who are waiting before courts for fair, objective decisions, and after these decisions they are waiting to be sure that this decision which they have taken from the court will be respected in peace. I have not been able to see the answer from the applicant to the question of what he has to say to those who, having obtained a judgment recently and in the following weeks, may feel a great deal of uncertainty about the state in connection with the further destruction of justice, which puts them at risk of major problems in the future. I would ask you very much, Mr. Applicant, to stand here today (the bell) and courageously tell the Poles what you are driving them into. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u154	Thank you, sir. We proceed, ladies and gentlemen, to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the bill in print 69 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. It was 214, 227 against, one holding back. [[Applause]] I state that the Sejm rejected the application and therefore referred this draft law to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. I propose that the Sejm be based on the article. 39 (1) (a) 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm have set a time limit for the submission of a report enabling it to be discussed at the current sitting of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. Objection. Objection, I hear. We are voting on this proposal in the light of the opposition. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the proposal to set a deadline for the committee to present a report enabling it to be discussed at the current session of the Sejm would like to raise its hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 226 was for, against - 214, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the offer. If the committee submits a report, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the Article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. Objection doesn't... Objection. Objection, I hear. In view of the opposition raised to the application of the Article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, shall be decided in the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of agreeing to the application of the Article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, he will raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 227 was for, against - 216, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the offer. In view of the opposition, we are voting on the timing of the discussion. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the proposal to listen to five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 226 was in favor, 214 against, 1 abstained. I find the Sejm has accepted the offer. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the draft law amending certain laws to facilitate the control of infectious animal diseases (prints No 87 and 93). I ask Mr Robert Telus to present a report to the committee. Ladies and gentlemen, I invite those who may, before the Sejm, as it was said this morning. There's gonna be mapping on the Seym Building, Christmas. Come on in. Maybe a little... Ladies and gentlemen, please. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]] Mr President, we have already invited you as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u155	Dear Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development a report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry. 17 December 2019 Marshal of the Sejm, in accordance with Article. 37 and Article 37 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1). 40 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed the above draft law to the Commission: Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry, Agriculture and Rural Development for first The Commissions: Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry and Agriculture and Rural Development, after first reading, consider this draft law at its meeting on 18 December 2019 and ask the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. Dear country, as regards the discussion and this law, this law is expected by hunters', farmers', farmers', breeders' environments, in general, by Poles. This is one of the laws that help fight the terrible thing, the tragic thing, in the fight against ASF. I'm talking to all the Members. Those who know each other and those who don't know each other. ASF is African swine fever. This is a very important and very difficult issue for Poland, because it decimates pig farms, spends sleep with the eyelids of many farmers, farmers, changes the structure of breeding in Poland. It has been in Poland since 2014 when the first three fires appeared. Since then, governments and the Civic Platform and the PSL, and now the PiS government are fighting this disease. There were three fires. He asked me to remind you that there were three fires. That's the truth. In 2014, there were three fires and then the government couldn't handle them. Now how much is it? 300. This can be compared to the body. If the human body attacks cancer in one or two places, it's easier to fight it. But if the body is already under attack by not taking good action at the time... Today we already know that these were bad actions, because at that time, among others. Shooting wild boars has been banned. Then the hunts were halted and the wild population in Poland increased very strongly. And he is, ladies and gentlemen, one of the most important vectors that carries this disease. That's why you have to, it's a duty. Today, too, at the committee meeting, we had some voices, with doctoral degrees, to ban them from shooting wild boars, because it's not gonna help. Ladies and gentlemen, the boar is a carrier and if we do not reduce its population, it will spread this disease. It's normal, logical, and I think whoever thinks logically sees it. Worse with those who think through politics and only want to try to attack. In such an important case, they're trying to attack. Such attacks were also at the committee meeting, ladies and gentlemen. One Member compared it, or maybe asked a question to everyone: How is a man different from a wild boar? Ladies and gentlemen, I won't even answer that. I have a lot of answers in my head, but I'm not going to stoop to that level to answer that question. Ladies and gentlemen, someone who asks such a question does not realize what a big problem this is, what a problem it is for a breeder when he has to knock out an entire pig because there is a fire. Then you don't look at whether it's a dungeon, a pig, a pig, a fattener, but you have to take them all out. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish no one, not even those who defend the wild boar so hard, to have to see such pictures. And there's a lot of them on the Internet when you had to take down the pig farmer. Going back to this law - this law has several amendments, such as that which will facilitate the reduction of the wild population in Poland. Among other things, ladies and gentlemen, this is at the request of many Members, Members who once were in the Kukiz party15, at the moment they are in the club of the Polish People's Party, various Members. There have been proposals for us to allow or engage in the fight against ASF officers, soldiers. That's what we're doing with this bill. Thanks to it, we will be able to involve soldiers, police officers, State Fire Department, Border Guard, those who have hunting powers. We will be able to engage in the fight against ASF, with this terrible tragedy, disease, virus, which so decimats our Polish breeding. I think that all those who care about Polish breeding should not be against this law, and in the committee there were many opponents who do so only for ideological, political and party reasons. That's not what we're gonna do. The next change in this law is again a matter of bioinsurance, because bioinsurance is also very important. Until now, in order to build a nickname, you'd need building permits. Thanks to this law, we make such a change, that just a notification is enough to build a nickname. We're also helping the breeders to have this bio-insurance. Because, as I said, the vector is, first of all, the fight against ASF - by reducing wild boars, and second, by introducing good bioinsurance. So it must be strong cooperation between hunters, government, but also farmers. And this cooperation in many places is very good, I want to recall the district of Piotrkowski, the second district in Poland in terms of pig breeding. Ladies and gentlemen, I can see how much these breeders care, and I can see how much they're getting involved in their breeding so that this virus doesn't enter their pigsty. That's why I want to thank all those people who are so heartbroken about fighting the ASF. The next issue is the issue of silencers, very strongly criticized by people who, as I said, but I may be wrong - in my opinion they do not know about the fight against ASF. The issue of silencers, so that they can be used during the hunting of silencers. Ladies and gentlemen, if a pack of wild boars leaves, if there's one shot, the rest of them will smash, we have to make sure it can be reduced more accurately. Ladies and gentlemen, some say: and as much as they reduce, they will kill all the wild boars in Poland, there will be no wild boars. Dear country, Germany has been launched so far, 800,000 have been reduced, we are only 200. There's a difference, ladies and gentlemen. The opposition often refers to different stories from Germany or examples from Germany, that is, an example, dear state, there they are not afraid of it, they are not afraid of environmentalists, they are not afraid of those who pretend to defend animals. I recommend to all those who defend the wild boars so hard and say we shoot wild boars, a video to watch on YouTube. There's a movie that shows how the wild boar suffers when it gets infected with this virus, with the disease it's going through and with the pain it's in. I'd like those people who protect them so much to watch. Because this bill helps, and it also helps wild boars not to get tired so they don't have to suffer in this horrible disease. The next thing that we regulate in this bill is the issue of hunting blockades. We know that we've had situations like this in many places. I will call again Piotrków Trybunalski and hunters from Piotrków Trybunalski, farmers from Piotrków Trybunalski, from the Piotrków County, who went hunting to help hunters so that those pseudoecologists who blocked hunting, nothing more to remove those who blocked hunting. This law regulates hunting because, as I said, these are important matters. Ladies and gentlemen! It is a very expected law, a law needed. But just so we're clear, we're aware that this bill isn't gonna solve this big problem. We're very aware of that, but this is another bill that helps fight the ASF. Another law that leads us to protect our country so that it is not all infected with this virus and this big problem - as I said, dear country - is a problem for all of us. It is a law that goes in this direction to help Polish farmers, Polish breeders, hunters, Polish economy, Polish consumers. Ladies and gentlemen, next thing you know, some of us are trying to get this virus to be pushed only on farmers and breeders, that's their problem. Ladies and gentlemen, if we cannot cope with this disease, the structure of breeding in Poland will change very strongly and then all these small farms, these farms, which so far give us the best quality meat, pork... Because there, as far as nutrition is concerned, it is still very often conducted in a traditional way. Pork from these farms is the best quality, the highest quality. If we fail to fight this disease, the structure of breeding will change and there will be these great farms, which are not exactly farms that provide such good quality pork. This is also a matter for consumers, as are you. I said, therefore you must not push this disease, this virus, this very important issue only on farmers and breeders. That's the problem with everyone. I regret this very much - once again - that there are groups in Poland that make it so difficult to fight this virus. I mean, those groups that approach this ideologically, as it was heard yesterday at the committee meeting, who compare wild to man, maybe the opposite of man to wild. Ladies and gentlemen, this shows that these groups are not thinking of our common good, but merely thinking... Mr President, I see that this is ridiculous for you, and I think this is a very serious matter, and I regret that you are laughing at it, because only those who do not know this disease, this virus, those who do not know it can laugh at it today. We don't laugh, we think it's a very serious problem. I would ask you very much not to make a mockery of this serious problem, because this is a problem, as I said, of all of us, this is our national problem, and if we can't rise above our political, party business, then we won't be able to fight it. That is why, Commissioner, even though I have great respect for you, I think that at this point your laughter is inappropriate, because we should all take this matter seriously. Because I know how serious this is, like I said, for all of us. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, I ask you to adopt this law as soon as possible so that we can pass it to the Senate. Also from this place of senators, I ask the Senate Marshal to issue this bill as soon as possible in the Senate. Because this bill is needed. This bill is supposed to help with a very important matter, our national cause. And may we all, above political divisions, rise above these political, party divisions, so that we can fight this disease, with this virus, because this, dear countries, is what farmers, farmers, Poles expect from us. I think this is our mission to do this, and this bill is our next step. Like I said, not the last, but the next step in the fight against African swine fever virus. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo! [[The chairmanship of the proceedings includes the Marshal of the Sejm Elizabeth Witek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u156	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Ryszard Bartosik, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u157	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! Ministers! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present our club's position on the Act amending certain laws to facilitate the fight against infectious animal diseases. High Izbo! This law we want to stop the disease of African swine fever which is dangerous for Polish agriculture and thus help farmers who lose very, very much, but also our consumers. This law covers and affects several other laws in order to fully and complementaryly bring about the most effective operation of sanitary services, but not only many other institutions, to stop this dangerous disease. This law amends the Law on Forests, the Law on Construction, the Law on Hunting, the Law on Arms and Ammunition, the Law on the Protection of Animal Health and the Control of Animal Diseases, the Act on Products of Animal Origin, as well as the Act on Crisis Management, the Act on the Amendment of the Law on Hunting Law and the Act on the Implementation of Business Activities in the Production and Trading of Explosives, Arms and Ammunition. Ladies and gentlemen! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, of course, is in favour of this law. We've been struggling with this disease for a long time. It has its negative effects, adverse effects on Polish farmers, but also for the entire economy. It is good that the bill appeared in this version, that it changes many other regulations, that it launches many institutions, including the military, police, fire, state and voluntary. All in order to reduce the spread of the disease that we have been dealing with for a long time. The involvement of all uniformed services is primarily aimed at safe hunting and support of hunting circles, so that these hunting takes place in a safe way, and I will remind you that we are in a crisis situation, in a difficult situation and these hunting will be managed more and more frequently to reduce the population of wild boars that carry disease. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to ask you, the High House, to adopt this law, but at the same time, I propose an amendment to the Act in Article. 3 in point 3, Article. 29b. The amendment concerns that the Minister for the Environment should define the procedure for submitting and examining applications for the leasing of hunting circuits by means of a regulation. Mrs. Marshal! I am placing this amendment on your hands, and I ask the High House to pass a bill with a proposal for an amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u158	Thank you, sir. I now invite Mr Tomasz Aniska, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u159	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The project clearly shows the inability and inefficiencies of the government of Mateusz Morawiecki in the fight against African swine fever. After 4 years of chaotic and unjustified government action, we find out today that Polish agriculture faces a dangerous catastrophe and collapse due to a widespread epidemic. And what does the ruling party offer us in such a situation? The proposed law, prepared on the knee and knee by the Sejm, is a declaration of government to the complete failure of the strategy so far. The authors of the project did not learn from their previous experience. They can't learn from their mistakes. The authors of the project ignore the voice of Polish scientists. They ignore the welfare of all Poles and Poles. After killing over a million wild boars, after the inestimable losses of the Polish nature, after wasting millions of zlotys drawn out of Polish taxpayers' pockets today we face a situation worse than a year ago, worse than before 2, 3 and 4 years ago. The law sent to us under the cover of the night lays the foundation for the introduction of martial law for Polish nature. Its aim and effect will be not to eliminate ASF, but total extermination of wild boar in Poland, forcing hunters, troops, police and firefighters to join a common movement, with breaking all ethical principles applicable during hunting. Its aim is not to help pig farmers, but to subjugate the political rulers of the Polish Łowiecki Union, harass and punish the defenders of Polish nature and make it appear that the present government is doing something in this important matter and is mindful of the welfare of the Polish village. And if it doesn't work out, next year we'll hear that ASF is the fault of environmentalists, opposition, Ukrainian workers, gender ideology or LGBT, etc., while in fact it's just a smoke screen designed to hide the incompetence, inability and helplessness of the PiS government. Nature cannot be governed by laws, not even by special laws. Nature is all the same which party has the majority in parliament. Nature is governed by its laws, which we can only learn, understand and respect. They do not make an impression on nature by the spell of the Minister of Agriculture, manipulating information and propaganda. 1,200 leading Polish scientists have made it clear that they are opposed to the mass slaughter of wild boars as a panacea for the ASF epidemic. There is no scientific, rational basis for this, but there are only political motivations. The entire elaborate construction of this law is written on several dozen pages and several resorts are based on an amazingly fragile basis. The entire justification of the Act is contained in one sentence: The excessive population of wild boar in Poland is conducive to the transfer of ASF to farms. There is no indication of what this population is today, and what is meant by excessive and what does that mean? Eating sausage is also conducive to ASF distribution, so what? That's not true. Anything better from the law couldn't come up with? The information sent to us by the Minister of Agriculture abounds with such flowers, which point to the lack of justification for this shameful act. The position of the Civic Coalition Club will depend on the adoption of several amendments that we have tabled to this law. I'd like to give it to the marshal right now. [[Applause]] [[Piotr Zgorzelski, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, is the chairman of the proceedings.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u160	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the parliamentary club, Mr Romuald Aichler will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u161	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the beginning of the 7th term of office of the Sejm, I had the honour to speak on behalf of the club of the Democratic Alliance to the Minister of Agriculture about the possible migration of African fever to Poland and how the government protected our country from the avoidance of the disease. One year after getting this information - and then the government assured me that my concerns were unfounded, and the Democratic Left Alliance did not have to worry about these issues and that we would deal with the ASF - it turned out that the ASF did not miss our country. I asked at the meeting of this House: Minister, what did I say? It was wild satisfaction. Today we see how accurate these grades were at the time. Then we could tell each other what was worth, what we should do. At that time, Mr Telus very much, but this very much reflected my speeches on what needs to be done to deal with ASF. And as always, Mr. Reporting Officer, it didn't work out much. Well, at that time, African fever has developed so much that today, as a country, we are not able to control it. And it doesn't matter how many wild boars we shoot because it's not the only prescription to get rid of ASF. There's no insurance. Read the results of the audit carried out by the Supreme Audit Chamber and ask yourself what the government of the current term has done to reduce the population of this developing disease. I'm not talking about boars. High Izbo! I would like to ask you how much money the government has spent on helping veterinarians, health inspection, helping other groups to purify forests, fields from carcasses, which is what contributes to the dissemination of ASF. Well, there's not much and there's not much to it either. High Izbo! My colleague will continue to speak, and I will only say this, Mr Telus, Mr President of the Committee on Agriculture, that I am disappointed in these actions today because they will not bring much. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u162	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u163	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill changes as many as nine laws. We got it Monday afternoon. It was not consulted, there was no public reading. I don't know about you, but I promised my constituents and my voters a decent job, a job that doesn't happen within 24 or 48 hours. And this bill changes among others. the Crisis Management Act. That's not how we're supposed to proceed. However, I am moving to the content of the bill. Everyone in this room is aware that the ASF must be fought, but the state, instead of directing research into ASF vaccines, wants to hunt with silencers. You're proposing to punish the people who are in the woods during the hunt for a year in prison. Scientists have been saying for years that simply increasing wild boar shots will not help, so maybe instead of sending the police to shoot off wild boars, which you are also proposing, it is worth taking seriously bio-secration and supporting farmers by directing special measures. What else is in this bill? Ladies and gentlemen, closing the passageways for animals and forest fences will have a fatal impact on the whole ecosystem. To deprive landowners of the right to decide whether hunting can take place on their territory. Finally, calling the police to secure the area where the hunters want to hunt. It's another unthinkable action that doesn't solve any ASF-related problems. I'll tell you more, it's a deliberate avoidance of solutions. We have recommendations from the European Office for Foreign Affairs. EFSA's Food Safety, which clearly states that the firing alone is not enough, that such a shot in such a form is not enough to ensure a sufficiently high level of biosecurity on farms. Special funds have to be directed there. We need to support farmers, we need to bet on research on vaccines. On behalf of the public, I call for real action to combat the ASF. If, over the past few years, using this strategy of firing, we haven't been able to stop it, then maybe it's time to change that strategy. Let me stress our problem is the lack of strategy, ignoring the knowledge available in scientific reports, in EFSA reports and too late action. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On behalf of the club, I ask you to reject the bill or adopt any minority amendments proposed by us. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u164	Thank you very much, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Stefan Krajewski representing the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u165	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! We have been dealing with the ASF topic since 2014. You can see how important this problem is, because we are not only talking about the problem of boars, but also about the situation of pig farmers. The Minister isn't in the middle of this discussion. He's here. He's here. But where is the Minister of Agriculture, which mostly announced all the time... It's a good thing you're ministers. But where's the minister? He's working. He works at the Ministry. He works at the Ministry. Please don't disturb the Member. We've been talking since 2014. You had as many ideas as you were in the opposition about what you're gonna do so the ASF doesn't spread. We kept these three fires. Minister Jurgiel came in, loosened all the standards and spread them out. ASF all over the country. These services carried the remains of the slaughtered flock to the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodeship throughout the country. We warned you that when the ASF crossed the Vistula, it would be a problem for the whole country. You didn't listen to it, you didn't change it. If you really want to counteract ASF, the money should go to county veterinarians. The handling of bio-insurance applications in the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture should be accelerated. We propose such amendments as the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. We're talking about the application being served in the county office. Up to 30 days to support the application for bioinsurance. The handling of applications already submitted should be accelerated. Next thing. There were words here about the extermination of the wild boar. We propose that the Minister responsible for. the environment, in agreement with the Minister responsible for the environment. agriculture has, by means of a regulation, defined detailed rules and criteria for the functioning of the four breeding centres of fenced wild boar habitats in order to preserve the genetic pool. In addition to these centres, the wild boar population should be diluted as much as possible. We also have experience in Podlaskie Voivodship. When we increased the wildfire in the voivodship, this disease did not progress as fast as it does today. Today ASF is already in Lubuskie voivodship, knocking on the door of Wielkopolska voivodship... He's here. He's here. There are many problems for farmers today. Nothing's going on. We also propose in our amendment to pay for wild boar shots. It doesn't matter if it's a dungeon or the others. You should pay 500 PLN for shots and 500 PLN for people who find or point the dead boar's body. We're talking here whether it's the Territorial Defence Forces or the State Forest workers or farmers who are indicated by the Agricultural Chamber who have no direct or indirect connection with pig farmers. Today, we will hand over these amendments to your marshal. As Parliamentary Group on the combating ASF, as a parliamentary club, we are proposing further points to be implemented. An information campaign must be carried out because a large part of society does not understand this problem, there is no knowledge. We were talking about these gunshots with a silencer. This isn't about whether we scatter the game or not. Not everyone needs to know there's a hunt in the woods. Let's imagine that a farmer who owns a private forest is going into the woods to get firewood to clean it up. He won't even hear there's a hunt somewhere. Who's gonna pay for those mistakes and mistakes? Listen also to those who have experience in this field. Pray on both sides for the environment of scientists and for their positions. We can also see that these positions have evolved greatly from the beginning. Those who said not to shoot at first changed their approach as soon as power changed. That's not what they're saying today. I would also like to thank the Member present here, who has always been at the invitation of the Management Board of the voivodship (the bell), when we discussed the ASF problem, and the Minister either (the bell) sent a janitor or no one came. Thank you very much. I'm handing over the amendments. Of course, we will vote in favour of this law if our amendments are included. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u166	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask the floor of Mr Michael Urbaniak, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u167	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! As a general rule, ASF has been present in Poland since 2014. There's been more and more bonfires lately. We have to pay attention, for example. in Wielkopolska voivodship, where 35% of pigs are bred, so this is actually a big problem. That's a problem to deal with. High Izbo, there has been virtually no central attorney for ASF control for five years. Nor has any over-ministerial cooperation been undertaken. That's not true. He was a proxy. There was an effective depopulation of boars, which are the main vector of the transmission of this disease. Some hunters, which should be noted, have been stigmatized by environmentally friendly environments. They didn't necessarily want to cooperate. We can look at, for example. in the Czech Republic, where snipers are used to combat ASF. We don't have it today, but maybe it's worth thinking about. The ASF could lead to a deep crisis. I feel like we're all aware of that in the courtroom. This amendment, in fact a special act, is intended to combat the virus, and very well. The project focuses primarily on what is causing the spread of ASF. It's about the wild and the problem of depopulation, the possibility of increasing the firing. In this respect, the powers of the police, the guards, the army may also increase. Importantly, attention should be paid to the fact that it is prohibited on purpose to prevent bystanders from disturbing the hunts themselves, for example. environmental or pseudo-ecological organisations, as in principle - more correctly - can be defined. Germany is a good example that has already been cited today. It's a country in which actually 800,000. Wild boars have been shot down, and yet the problem is smaller. We too have a duty to remember first where there is good that we should take care of. It is about the good of the farmer and the good of the consumer, but also about the Polish nature and environment. Ecology isn't just about keeping an eye on a particular species, it's about keeping a balance in the environment. This is very important, so extending the bioinsurance rules not only on farmers, but also on hunters, security services or sanitary hunting, this is a good step. It is not precise, however, to introduce the law of amendments to the Hunting Law, which are in principle to be regarded by hunters as hindering hunting. It's pretty vague. It's about art. 42aa, paragraph 16. The recipe is quite general, it does not fully explain what this deliberate obstruction or obstruction would be all about. It would be worthwhile to elaborate on the final wording of the law. Nevertheless, we consider the whole project as a Confederation to be necessary. We also point out that it is adopted too quickly. In that case, it does not necessarily have to be considered. It is done in a hurry and, which is also important, it is too late for one term. This should have been done a few years ago, but it's still a step in the right direction, so we're gonna be helping. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u168	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to inform you that the list of Members voted in has been exhausted. We're going to ask questions. I'm setting time for questioning - 1 minute. One minute? One minute. Marshal, this is ASF. One minute. You will see that if your question lasts longer, you will have this space. There are 34 Members on the list. If there are no more volunteers, I'm closing the list. Please take the floor of Mr Jakub Rutnicki, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u169	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! President Telus says we need to act. Ladies and gentlemen, you were four years old. It's a drama. Mr President, this is a drama. I am a Member from the western Wielkopolska district of Wolsztyn. There were farmers here yesterday who were terrified. The whole district of Wolsztyn is already a red zone. There's really going to be a disaster in a minute. We'll probably only be able to pray by now when ASF enters the farms. There is a need for firm action here, not further amendments. You've been updating this law for four years. What happened? There were three ASF fires, ladies and gentlemen, and at the moment there are 300. It started a few weeks ago in the district of Wschów, in Lubuskie Voivodeship. What actions have been taken over three weeks? The farmers were terrified. They called us, called the Members' Offices, wanted to take action. There was a meeting with the voivodship, a conversation. There were no concrete actions. What happened in the last three weeks? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The virus is already in Wielkopolska. He's in the district of Wolsztyn, he'll be in Newcomer in a minute, and then he'll be in the middle of town. You're gonna destroy the pork farm. Farmers won't forgive you. You haven't done anything in four years. Thank you very much. And what did you do?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u170	Thank you very much, sir. I ask the floor of Mr Krzysztof Truskolas, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u171	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! We have been struggling with the ASF problem in Poland for several years now. His first fires were detected in Podlaskie Voivodeship 5 years ago. When the PiS involved power, there were three outbreaks of ASF pigs in our country and 83 cases of infected boars were reported. After four years of your reign, there are 261 outbreaks of the virus in pigs and 5660 cases of it in feral pigs. These numbers show us a catastrophic situation. You've slept through ASF's rapid development for four years, and now, as if you're never saying anything, you're still fighting this disease, and this bill is supposed to be another panacea for it. That is why I expect, acting on behalf of the Podlaskie farmers (the bell), that the government will end with dreams, with cheap propaganda, but will finally take seriously the problem of ASF in our country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u172	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Ms Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bąk, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u173	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Did the government go to any trouble to calculate losses, including losses to the ecosystem, related to such drastic reduction of the wild boar population in Poland as may be the result of this law? What's the damage? It goes on, among other things. the losses arising from the expected growth of the invertebrates population by experts, such as tree pests, which have a clear negative impact on forest management and which are being fed by wild boars. It is also about the losses associated with the increase in the rodent population, which carry ticks and thus promote the spread of dangerous loreliosis to humans. These are concrete losses, and these losses can be enormous. Can you honestly give the cost to the people and to the nature of this gift that you want to give to the hunter? Please respond in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u174	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Urszula Zielińska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u175	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The project discussed here in practice assumes the extermination of the feral population in Poland, even with the use of a silencer. Its aim is to combat African swine fever, undoubtedly a major problem. He's assuming it's the wild ones that carry it. ASF to the pigsty and it was infected by pigs' heads, slowly living wild boars. In Poland, however, we do not have any scientific evidence, not a single report, which would prove that slowly living wild boars infect animals in pigs. There is evidence, however, that other breeding animals and the absence of bioinsurance are caused by animal infections. And that's the root of the problem. Hence my question to the Members of the applicants. Please provide at least one report, at least one of the data confirming that ASF in pigsty is spreading through free-living wild boars. You will not present them because there is no such data. Your project to solve the ASF problem by (The Bell) firing an entire population of wild boars is as absurd as the idea of cutting out forests and lettings to fight fires in the forest. It goes hand in hand with your environmental strategy - cut out, fire, concrete. Ladies and gentlemen! This isn't the way. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u176	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u177	Dear Marshal, It is outrageous, ladies and gentlemen, that today there is no Minister of Agriculture, Minister Ardanowski, who should be here listening to this discussion. This problem is a great disgrace to the PiS government. Ladies and gentlemen! My colleague just said how many cases there were in 2014. It was under control. You're not dealing with this at all. No matter what law you make, it is only by practical action that you can deal with it. You constantly permanently intimidate farmers on hunters and vice versa. It can't be that way, ladies and gentlemen. Finally, concrete action must be taken, not a law that does not work and the ASF goes on. Today it is actually already in Wielkopolska, it may be in the Western Pomerania, in the whole of Poland. Enough (the bell), enough making laws that don't work. Finally, let's get on with concrete action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u178	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mrs Beata Maciejewska, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u179	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to know if the Ministry was familiar with the arguments put forward by 61 scientists from all over Poland in an open letter from the scientific community on the reduction of the population of feral pigs, in which they are calling for the immediate cessation of planned mass and large-area wild boar shots, arguing that they will not ensure the achievement of the purpose they are intended to serve. On the contrary, scientists write, both the guidelines of the European Office for Foreign Affairs. Food safety, as well as national practice, indicate that mass-hunting wild boars contribute to the spread of the virus. Therefore, I also have another question. Whether this shelling is a way of covering the neglects, the ministry's long-term negligence in this matter and whether it simply constitutes a mere smokescreen and the slaughter is to go to more than 210 thousand. animals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u180	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mrs Katarzyna Maria Bakerska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u181	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to ask the applicant, the rapporteur, how it is that activists or persons for preventing, as stated here, the execution of the hunt will be punishable by imprisonment - the sentence of imprisonment - once again I say - up to 1 year, while the hunter will be subject to a fine only for failure to comply with the rules of bioinsurance. And second of all, there's one more problem. True, hunters are bound by this law to comply with the principles of this bioinsurance, but the question is who will really check it out. It may be checked by your veterinarian, but who's gonna ask him to denounce himself? And we have a lot of videos, which in social media are shown that hunters are simply eviscerated animals (the bell) directly in the place of hunting, which means they do not follow the rules of bioinsurance. What I'm saying is, if it doesn't change, it won't work. Bioinsurance, special mats. Otherwise, it's not gonna happen, and we're gonna fire all the wild boars in Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u182	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Łącki, the Civic Coalition, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u183	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! You've been a bad government. You've been mismanaging this country for four years. You guys were in charge. You are a weak government, but like every government, you should strive to be at least a little better. Then why do you need ministers like the Minister... [[Game in the O.R.]] Excuse me, sir. Why don't we wait a minute until this unnecessary discussion is over. The public has already thanked us twice. Why do you need ministers like Minister Ardanowski, who, when the drought was, disappeared and was nowhere to be found? When the drought started in the spring, Minister Ardanowski disappeared. He didn't show up until the fall to say that he's gonna be giving compensation that he didn't have any money for. So far, some haven't been compensated. Now again, Minister Ardanowski woke up because he has several thousand cases of ASF in Poland (The Bell) and wants to fire everything that moves. Ladies and gentlemen, change this minister, maybe you'll do better than that. We will, of course, support this bill because, unfortunately, something needs to be done. But think about using silencers. I don't have an amendment, but using silencers is, ladies and gentlemen, a real exaggeration. Here, in this room, as I know life, there are two or three hunters sitting, according to statistics. It is a long tradition, it is a centuries-old tradition and principles of St. Hubert. A gun with a silencer doesn't shoot wild animals. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u184	Thank you very much, sir. Now please take the floor of Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u185	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Continuing with the story of the predecessor, it must be said that this is an incredible scandal, that in the debate on the most important problem for Polish agriculture there is no minister of agriculture. Change it immediately because it doesn't bring you glory. It's a shame to say his name in the country. He's the best minister. Ladies and gentlemen, for four years of thought... You've had four years to think about it. This is not what we expected here in this House, not that you will present such a project. You've presented a big nothing, a beautiful plate with nothing. Before the election, you had a prescription for everything, especially at meetings with farmers. Today you have no prescription for anything. But I have a very specific question: What are the effects you expect in the next six months and the first year of this law in terms of reducing outbreaks? What support will you provide for veterinary inspections - I am thinking about the financial aspect and organisational support - because we know that today the veterinary inspection is on the front line of the fire fight against ASF? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And since you're interfering so strongly with the Polish Hunting Union... Are you going to take over the funding of the Polish Hunting Union if you want to rule everything in it? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u186	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, parliamentary club of the Left, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u187	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Does a powerful army of hunters have to ask for additional privileges related to the lack of control during hunting, because it fears that toasts: gift and arrows will not be to be seen and punished? I am talking about this because it is a privilege that, under the cover of changes that facilitate the fight against infectious animal diseases, rules have been introduced that have not yet been introduced, namely rules in the Hunting Law, which prohibit intentionally obstructing or preventing hunting bystanders. Penalties are also introduced: fines, restrictions on freedom or deprivation of liberty for a year. That's what the Baker's messenger was just talking about. Do the creators of this provision want impunity and lack of control of hunters? Finally, a quote from the Polish Nobel Prize winner: The country is witnessed by his animals. The relationship to animals. If people behave beastly towards animals, no democracy (the bell) or anything will help them. [[Applause]] 800,000. They killed the Germans.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u188	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek, parliamentary club of the Left. In that case, we would like to ask you, Mrs Anita Sowinska. There isn't. There isn't. Mr Kazimierz Starzdowski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will now speak. There isn't. There isn't. Ma'am... Can I have another one, Marshal? I'd love to. Then we would like to ask you, Mrs Katarzyna Osos, the Civic Coalition. There isn't. Reliable Mr Romuald Ajchler, always in office. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u189	Thank you very much, Marshal. I have a request on behalf of those who weren't: I'd ask you to assign a second minute. No, a form of joke. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to ask. I have read - and yes, there are countries in this room who are dealing with this subject - protests of scientists, professors with major titles who say that what is happening at the moment will not do much. But I'd also like to... I ask the government: Is there any institute in Poland developing a vaccine against African fever? Is anyone working, or are we just waiting for the Americans to come up with this, the Chinese? How about the Vietnamese with this vaccine come to Poland? We can't do this without this medicine. We can't handle it because African fever is worse than cancer. Worse, because cancer has all sorts of drugs, there are treatments. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On the other hand, there is nothing for African fever. Hence, Minister, the question is: Isn't it worth investing these tens of millions of zlotys - I'm almost done, Marshal - in research? Isn't it worth working with other countries on this matter, not just waiting for the pig breeding to cease due to the growing ASF. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u190	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Parliamentary Club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u191	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Today, the rapporteur, presenting this project... As a result, it sounds as if the most important element of the fight against ASF is the shooting of wild boars. I wouldn't put that accent like that. I think, first of all, bioinsurance, government and government activities, actually the whole public authority, this is a very important issue. Therefore, we need to launch all possible instruments of public authority, starting with information, education, cooperation with non-governmental actors, Soviet councils, agricultural circles and the Polish Łowiecki Union. Today, I think, there was no such strong fight and willingness to act as part of the national programme to combat this disease. Therefore, there should be more resources for district doctors, more funds for these competitions (The Bell), and not just this element associated with the shooting of boars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u192	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Mr Krzysztof Szulowski's Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u193	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In his name, of course. During a turbulent discussion at the joint committee yesterday on the problem of the fight against ASF, and today this thread appears, representatives of the opposition, great defenders of nature and wild boars, repeatedly referred to an open letter from the scientific community on the reduction of the population of wild boars, in which these scientists, headed by the PAN, critically speak about actions aimed at reducing the population of feral pigs in the entire area of Poland. However, this is nothing to do with EFSA's current recommendations. It's the same thing. These recommendations are from 2014 and EFSA withdrew from them. The experiences of recent years have changed these recommendations. Current recommendations speak directly, among others. on the need to search for the most effective hunting methods to reduce wild boar populations, increase hunting plans, liberalize hunting restrictions (Dawn)... Exactly. ...withdraw the ban on hunting in protected areas. Density, compaction, tell me. When will the opposition finally stop treating ASF solely as an opportunity for a political attack and base its position on rational arguments? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Szumowski said that.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u194	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Dyduch, parliamentary club of the Left, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u195	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! You could say, Houston, we have a problem, because he's actually going to grow. I have no doubt that the ASF will develop. Is it enough to tighten up the penalties, or will the increase in the number of people who will kill the wild fight against the ASF? I had the impression that the Members who presented this project would say: now we will tighten up, increase, and so on. Well, hunters, cops and border guards are gonna fight back, it's about shooting wild boars off. I'm scared that they won't use the awkward stuff until I'm scared. Is that gonna help? After all, we know that there must be prevention and science - everything that is available today, and not just one way of dealing with this problem. We fought alcoholism and Poles drink more. We have sharpened other penalties - Poles cause more accidents. Here's the tightening. It's not gonna do any good if there's not gonna be a wide range of things. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'll ask you two questions. First: Who will coordinate the actions of all these resorts in the fight against ASF? Now there's not one department that's coordinating it, and three, four resorts are working on it. Two: When our scientists... That's not true. He's a government attorney. Government? The government is a general concept. But there's no discussion. Now you are asking questions, Mr. President. The government is a general concept. You'll see how it's settled, who's responsible. All the ministers are gonna get out of here. And second question: When will our scientists receive funding for research to find a vaccine on this issue? When they get the money because they haven't started work yet. [[Applause]] They get big grants.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u196	Thank you very much, sir. I ask you to ask Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u197	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The problem is not boar, the problem is disease. I would like you to use these terms, because some environments, including in the agricultural committee, show their propaganda through the defense of wild boars, by showing up as people who come to the agricultural committee's meeting just to score points by defending wild boars. I'd like to say that the problem isn't boar, it's disease. That's why there's a special act to eliminate the disease. The most important thing is that it concerns farmers, it concerns Polish citizens, it concerns Polish food and that is what I miss in this discussion, which is what I miss in this debate. There is not enough talk about Polish farmers, about the quality of Polish food, there is not enough talk about the quality of Polish food. It's about child propaganda or anti-rabies propaganda. It's not good for this debate, it's not good for the specialist. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Question for the rapporteur. Mr President, what would happen if a specialty project were proposed in 2014? What would be the situation with ASF today? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u198	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u199	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, It was a beautiful, fiery speech... Thank you. ...but unfortunately only one sentence was true in it, namely: we are taking the next step, not the last. Yes, my dear farmers. That's what you should remember. Law and Justice doesn't want to win against this disease, it's taking another step, or actually just a little step towards it. Just like you couldn't remember for four years that Kukiz15 wasn't a party, so you can't still believe that the substantive opposition has an idea to win against this disease, but you have to take advantage of this idea. Don't believe only that you have this golden grail, because, apparently, for four years, this golden grail has failed. Mr Reporter, I would like to tell you that the structure of breeding has already changed. Over 100,000. You have finished the farm, and it is a shame, a great shame for this House, but above all for you, that you have not listened to our amendments for four years. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Were you at the end of the ASF fire? This is a great tragedy for breeders. Therefore, I ask you to accept the amendments of the Coalition Poland club. Let's win with this disease, let's not do another little step. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u200	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u201	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! We hear here that the problem isn't animals, it's the disease. And that's the truth. Therefore, I ask: Why do we not take into account the fundamental scientific arguments presented not by pseudoecologists, as ironically we hear here, only by more than 1 000. scientists of the Polish Academy of Sciences? Why is the government not responsible, not responsible for the lack of action after the 2017 NIK report, in which the report stated that in Poland the bioinsurance programme, which was a tool in the fight against this disease, with ASF, was poorly prepared and implemented? 74% farms had no security, and veterinary records, as NIK said, were often falsified. Why can't we hear the reference to this negligence? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u202	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u203	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Mr Jurgiel is no longer here with us in this House, but I think we could calmly call the ASF a disease to them. Minister Jurgel, because it was because of the minister's activities or perhaps rather the lack of the minister's activities that this disease spread relatively, I would say, a small range of three outbreaks into the scope of most of our country. Today we see what this efficiency looked like, what it has created for us. But the question is about uniformed services. The applicants in this law offer additional duties for the police, for the army, for the State Fire Service, for the officers. It therefore appears that additional funding should follow these new responsibilities. Let's not be charmed. [[♪ The bell ♪]] After all, the police who daily guard security in our neighborhoods, among the inhabitants, among the citizens, will have to be allocated for completely different purposes. Therefore, the question to the applicants: Why is there no additional resources for the police, for the military, why is there no additional resources for the fire department? These are additional responsibilities and these additional measures should be. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u204	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Paweł Hreniak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u205	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a request to some of the Members in the Chamber not to treat this legislation ideologically. This law is expected, this law is very technical and this law is primarily intended to help all those services who are struggling with this disease on a daily basis, with the reduction of ASF. It's the only way to treat this bill. Let's leave ideology somewhere far away. I have a question for the Minister: What is the number of boars per km in Germany and what is the number of boars per km in Poland? Thank you very much. One kilometer of what? Square.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u206	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u207	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I recall this debate and the harsh criticism of Minister Jurgiel when he requested that Minister Kalemba be dismissed for excessive rigour at three fires when the disease occurred in Podlasie. I think that if we were to maintain this rigor then, we would probably have fewer problems, although I am aware of how serious this is, because it is a matter of combating a disease for which there are no vaccines so far, there are no medications. In turn Wielkopolska is 35% of the production of pork in Poland, while at the same time 70% breeding flocks. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the largest resource, because production can still be reborn somehow, but breeding flocks, their running, devirusing, spatial isolation, etc. It's a huge resource. That is why I believe that we should devote huge resources to bioinsurance so that there is no destruction of breeding flocks, which are a huge biological value as regards the Polish agricultural system. [[♪ The bell ♪]] 100,000, Andrew, 100,000. It's gone. And the other thing, Marshal, is the resources for the Veterinary Inspection. The Veterinary Inspection will not organise collections together with other services if they have a problem with how to pay for transport, how to pay people, how to pay people, for example. for feeding those people who help with this fundraiser. So I think we should have a solution for this case, too. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u208	Thank you very much, sir. The question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u209	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill is late, and it's very late. A few years ago, we called on the Lublin Voivodeship as a local government to deal with this problem. We felt that a special act should be created then, and this problem should be addressed by the Prime Minister of our government. Today we can ask: Where is the money for bioinsurance? Where's much more money for veterinary? Where's the information money? Where is this real support for farmers? Do you know that some farmers are waiting a few years for compensation? It's about what they deserved, because they've de facto shut down their production. Today we should also think about how to restore this production. We should be thinking about small farms. If you say today that you want a bill over political divisions, yes, because that's the problem. not one political party, but all, it is necessary, first, to take part in the blame (the Bell) on themselves, and secondly, to take into account the proposals that are coming from the opposition today. Then I'm sure this bill will be much, much better. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u210	Thank you very much, sir. Now the question is asked by Mrs Dorota Sunday, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u211	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister, I'm not surprised that Minister Ardanowski isn't here, because if I were him, I'd be hiding in a black hole by now. In the days of Minister Ardanowski, this is 16 months, there were 48 ASF fires. But there were 50,000 in those fires, ladies and gentlemen. pigs, more than all ministers have had on their conscience so far. Moreover, Minister Ardanowski issued such a regulation that talked about bioinsurance and that he would spend money on bioinsurance, etc. So what? Yesterday we heard from the Minister: 3.5 thousands. farmers' applications, 3.5 thousand, ladies and gentlemen, for 140 thousand. the loss of pigs in Poland. It's a shame, isn't it? You can't help farmers, you can't help anyone. What's more, you're digging up a bigger ditch between farmers, between environmentalists, between hunters. And this bullshit, not the bill, this is the minister's bullshit who doesn't know what to do. He's scared and he's trying to shed his responsibility on the Minister of Environment (the bell), because it's easy. It's a votive. distrust of the Minister of the Environment and the fight between ministers. Nothing else. There's no money, there's no action, and the minister's in hiding. By the way, Minister, you're a proxy for this, you're a proxy, you're taking the money for it - you might want to read Professor Pejsak's book, because there's a lot of smart stuff here. If you'd followed the 1/10, we'd be somewhere else today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u212	Thank you very much, Member. The question will be asked by Agnieszka Hanajczyk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u213	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Many times from this side of the House I have heard such an attack against the opposition that we are trying to raise political capital so that we do not practice ideology. This may be difficult to imagine, but among Members I know many who have a level of sensitivity that makes this a difficult debate not to say a dark debate. If I imagine hunters, army and police walking around with a gun with a muffler on the wild, I look for many answers, because it is simply out of respect for animals, for nature very difficult. Therefore, first of all, I would like to ask you: Are you convinced that this great extermination of wild boars will not cause such an upheaval in the future that we will fight another disease, quite serious? Are you aware of the cases that just after such a great (The Bell) extermination of wild boars, among others. I mean, it was in Spain, and for three years a disease outbreak was stopped, and then it reappeared? I would like to ask: What are the actual actions of bioinsurance? And what's very important to me is the ecosystem. What are the actions of the state... What data do you have? Excuse me, just one more sentence, Marshal. Today, you have noticed that in two or three years, scientific reports have changed. How do you know what the reports will be in two or three years? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u214	Thank you very much, Member. The question will be asked by Mr Kazimierz Plocke, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u215	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have some questions for the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development. First: Is the development of African swine fever in Poland working at the Ministry of Agriculture to develop a national strategy for the fight against ASF? If this document is, we'd like to meet it. If not, we encourage it to be developed, because this would make it perfectly possible to take action at all levels of government: self-government, government, and service. Secondly, we would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture: Will he secure and secure for 2020 additional money in the state budget for the fight against ASF, for veterinary inspection? Since 2017, the Civic Platform has requested additional money, and applications have always been rejected. Today is the highest necessity and it is necessary to allocate this extra money for this purpose (the bell). Thirdly, we would like to ask the Ministry whether it is considering changing the amount of compensation for small farms producing pigs under bioinsurance from 50 to 100%. It is not a big money, but it would be an excellent help for those farms which are mostly in Poland, which would probably be very pleased with this help. Finally, the fourth point: When will the government take the initiative to inform consumers, Poles about this dangerous disease within the framework of, I don't know, the national campaign? It is also important that Poles are aware of what this disease is and what the economic consequences are for everyone. Thank you very much. One last question, Mr. Marshal. Minister, if you could just tell us how many farms have been compensated for the removal of stocks. That's what Mrs. Dorota Sunday said, 100,000. The herd has been eliminated. How many farms have received money to rebuild their production as part of the eradication of stocks? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u216	Thank you very much, sir. The question will be asked by Małgorzata Tracz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u217	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to point out that this project is an attempt to limit civil liberties, freedom to use forests. In this bill there is a record threatening people walking through the woods with the penalty of the year of prison. This will lead to such a pathological situation when a hunter who does not comply with the rules of bioinsurance is subject to a fine only if reported by a fellow hunter, a fellow hunter. However, an activist who will be a hunter who does not follow the principles of bioinsurance, e.g. Recording, he's gonna be in jail for a year. In fact, this additional concern is also aroused by the involvement of uniformed services. Let's imagine there's a hunt going on, there's people out there walking in the woods, and there's also the police that's gonna arrest and pacify these people right away. ...missary, this will not be the case... It's a bell actually into our civil rights. Hence my question: Why do you want to restrict citizens' citizens' rights and citizens' rights to the free use of forests that are our common good? [[Applause]] This is an emergency. This disease is worse than cancer, you heard from your friend.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u218	Thank you very much, Member. I would now ask you to take the floor and to ask the question of Mrs Monica Rosa, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u219	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to ask you for information on the successes you've had so far in the fight against ASF? How many wild boars were shot off in 2015 and 2019? And how did this reduce the number of ASF outbreaks in Poland? I would also like to know, ladies and gentlemen, what is the situation with bioinsurance. The 2017 NIK report indicated that 74% holdings did not have adequate safeguards. I would like to ask you to tell me whether you have examined what this situation is like now and how many farms are using appropriate bioinsurance. Ladies and gentlemen! The worst are apparent actions, because they have had the worst impact on both farmers, pigs, wild boars and the whole ecosystem. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u220	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u221	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! Two days ago, at the invitation of farmers from the Black-Trachian district near Czarnkow, I met them. Concerned, in many cases with tears in their eyes, they asked for action in their name, if there is such an opportunity in this House, regardless of political sympathy, to whomever it is closer. Because a lot of speeches hit one tone: better late than at all to deal with prevention. As it has been said today, Wielkopolska is in the orbit of the ASF's influence, where there is 40% pork, where livestock production is more than just agricultural production, because it is a branch of the economy in Wielkopolska. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We've got to save this hole. But also those farmers, there near Czarnkowa, asked that today not only prevent, but also eliminate the effects of ASF. Because unfortunately, Mr applicant, the ministers, the district veterinarians today have nothing to say to the farmers asking questions. They're helpless. And today, we need to be ready for ASF to show up, so that we can have procedures ready for liquidation as well. So that there are no situations in which farmers who have multimillion-dollar loans have invested in a professional, high European level of pig breeding will be without compensation in the future, for example. A 10 cm hole in the fence will be blamed to deprive these farms of compensation. For my part, the question is, when will there be procedures for the liquidation of ASF in a situation where it will appear in breeding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u222	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Dolata, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u223	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! This law is necessary, necessary, expected by farmers and good, because this is best borne out by the statements of Members of the opposition who do not make any substantive comments on this project. In general, these speeches by Members of the opposition can be divided into two groups. One group is Members who do not know anything about it, and the other group are Members who are acutely rhetorical trying to drown out their conscience because they are responsible for the state that we now have. [[Applause]] Come on, Zbyszek. You've been in charge for five years. Because isn't it true that when the first outbreak of this disease occurred in 2014, it was very easy to deal with it? 250 bonfires are here. The best evidence is what happened in the Czech Republic (The Bell) and Belgium. Why don't you do that? The Czechs and Belgians have dealt with this problem. And today we are suffering the consequences of your negligence and the situation when this disease spilled across the country. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Mr... And that's why these actions we're taking are necessary, effective. We will struggle with the effects of this disease, and unfortunately, the opposition has nothing to propose. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] It's just a scandal. Awesome. It was a political, unsubstantiated speech... Ha! Ha! Ha!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u224	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Marek Matuszewski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u225	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Government of Law and Justice always acts effectively and acts decisively. There's no doubt here, I think. This bill is an example of good action in this important matter. And fast. Knock. After four years. Bravo. Quoted here by the opposition Prof. Zygmunt Pejsak... [[Game in the O.R.]] Please don't disturb the Member. ...says: Unfortunately, there is no other advice to stop the ASF virus - says Prof. Zygmunt Pejsak, a specialist in this disease. Bravo. But he assures us that the wild boar population will soon be reborn. That's what the professor says. (PL) Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, What are the consequences? Are the ASFs for the Łódź Voivodship? How many outbreaks of this disease are there in our Łódź voivodship? Because the rapporteur, like me, is from the Łódź Voivodeship. Thank you. [[Game in the O.R.]] The Member does not know. And you don't know? To the farmers and find out.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u226	Thank you very much. But, sir, we are not discussing the benches. But emotions, Mr. Marshal. Please take the floor of Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u227	Thank you very much. Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The opposition very often points to the countries of the European Union as a model for us in many areas and in various proceedings, so to speak. And it was with regard to the fight against ASF that I wanted to ask: How, for example. Is our Western neighbours fighting this terrible disease? What are the Germans doing to fight the ASF? I would like to ask: Is it true that at the beginning of this year the European Commission had just given a very positive opinion on Poland's behaviour in the field of the fight against ASF and in the area (The Bell) of the reduction of wild boar population? I would like to ask if it is also true that the Germans are currently building a fence at the border with Poland, confirming precisely that the boar is a game that carries the virus, and only the struggle to reduce the population and the availability of this virus by reducing the availability of pigs can prevent this disease. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u228	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Dariusz Kurzawa, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u229	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! It's a shame we didn't wake up until after four years of this big ASF problem because... In accordance with Article First of all: What actions have been taken over the last 4 years in terms of veterinary strengthening issues? After all, it is the veterinary services that are primarily responsible for combating this disease. Two weeks are waiting for hunters to examine the meat of the wild boars that have been shot off. There are also no storage sites. What solutions will you propose to Minister Ardanowski on this subject? He is also a resident of the same voivodship from which I come, i.e. the voivodship of Kujawsko-Pomorskie, the voivodship which is third in terms of pork production. It is also one of the most endangered voivodships. And another question. Veterinary is one and two: What are we going to do about other species of animals that carry this disease? Are we gonna shoot wolves, birds too? And I expect an answer to the question: What are the directions in which the fight against ASF will continue? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u230	Thank you for asking the questions. And now you will be speaking with Mrs Anita Sowińska, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u231	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You say you're fighting ASF disease, and I'm telling you, you're lying. You cheat both farmers and consumers. You know very well that if you start shooting wild boars in the center where the disease is present, you will only cause the wild boars to run away and spread the disease further. That's why I'm asking the Minister questions. The European Commission... Do you foresee a protection zone fence, as did the Czechs who did it effectively? We're already doing it. Look what happened in the... Why are the implementing rules for bioinsurance and response to new disease findings different across the country and are you going to harmonise them? Why is only a small part of dead boar being cleaned up in the woods, and why is there no means to do so? What funding will be spent in 2020 on decent wages (the bell) for district veterinarians? Please respond in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u232	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u233	I have a question about passive surveillance, which is the removal of wild boars and animals infected with the virus. I wanted to know how much money had been spent on this type of action in previous years, and how much money the Ministry plans to allocate to these activities in the following years. Let me remind you that in this bill you assume that the State Fire Department, the Border Guard and the police will be handling this. And the army. The army, yes. Police, Border Guard or State Fire Department, or military. So I'd like to know how much money has been spent on training these people in terms of behavior... But they already have hunting powers. That's not in the bill. There it is. Mr applicant, we are not discussing, we are not breaking the rhythm of your Member. Okay, okay, I'm sorry. But it doesn't change the fact, it doesn't change my question. I want to know what kind of measures you're gonna use to get rid of the carcass, which is one of the important elements in the fight against ASF. And I'm sorry if I misunderstood the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u234	Thank you very much. The list of Members asking questions is closed by Mr Jan Łopata, the Parliamentary Club of the Coalition of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u235	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the impression - I hope that not only I - that when discussing this tragic disease of ASF, which is really spreading in Poland, people have become active, for whom hunting, hunting, hunting and hunting culture are some kind of black side of social life. I therefore ask the rapporteur to indicate and indicate how many hunting circles have failed to implement their hunting plans. And maybe the simplest question: Are there even such wheels in Poland that did not implement their hunting and breeding plans? For those who treat hunting a little bit on the margins, it would be good to hear the answer to that question. The plan's done. You can't count it. And I have a question for you. Namely the Polish Hunting Union is a fully self-financing association, an organization. Is there another association, maybe another organization that its members hold, they pay the money, and the authorities choose someone else, as is the case in the Polish Hunting Union? Unfortunately, that's not a good solution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u236	Thank you very much, sir. High Izbo! The Marshal received a letter from the chairman of the Committee on Culture and Media that the committee adopted a report on the draft resolutions on the recognition of the Nobel Prize winner Olga Tokarczuk. [[Applause]] These are prints 47, 59 and 90. Therefore, your marshal has convened the Senior Convention. So I'm announcing a time-out. 18. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 min 36 hours 18 min 05]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 20 of the agenda. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Simon Giżyński to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u237	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! We received reviews from many sides from the opposition very harsh, or at least unambiguously, also in naming. There were voices saying that this proposal of ours brings a disgraceful bill, it was easier to say that it was an apparent act, not giving anything. The most understanding was Mr Jarosław Sachajko, who described the envisaged effectiveness of this law as a small step. That is why I think, ladies and gentlemen, that we must return to a situation where we should say, in answer to all of you, why this law has remained This is exactly what was done, why it consists of references to several laws, why it is so collective, because it is not compileable, but referred to a very specific structure, which is the answer to inseparably and very pragmatically linked references. The aim is to complete two tasks at once. It's about what's been going on since the time when, as a result of the unrecognized - and it's not in the power of the Ministry of Agriculture or the Ministry of the Environment - the causes of the ASF virus jumped 300, 360 km and suddenly became a threat, just through such a distance. In this form for now - I am also speaking in quotes and with fear, but at the same time with conviction - we will be able to prevent cases from turning into fires. We're on the right track for that to happen. Notabene here in the case of a few votes, at least you have been notoriously confusing cases with outbreaks. We do it here in the first row when such a challenge falls on us. Since 15 November this year, when it was necessary to react to the case which existed in the district of Wschowa in Lubuskie Voivodeship, we did it instantly. Like the Czech territory, it was fenced tightly with approval, with knowledge, almost, you can say, in front of the European Commission inspectors, because they were there, they praised, they said that everything was okay when it comes to what we are doing on this matter. A fence was created whether there was a fence between the Lubuskie voivodship and the Wielkopolska voivodship. But it didn't work. In Olsztyn... Only in Olsztyn. You mentioned other counties, so I'm talking about it. Minister, this is missing the truth. It's not missing the truth. Let me finish. Then I won't react to your protests, because it's just my time... That's not true what you're saying. How untrue, as it is, Minister. That's what I'm saying, but that's not what you said in your speech. Ladies and gentlemen! 200 kilometers of fence. All the procedures that are necessary at this point are in the game. According to the Czech model, we are in control of this situation to the end. The wild boars that are in the restricted area will be eliminated because that's the logic. And it's a Czech pattern, a Belgian pattern. On the other hand, on our bill we impose something much more serious, which must determine the effectiveness of the entire hearing with ASF in Polish conditions and in Polish territory. This is the way that we have the best examples of implementation, because it is effective on the scale of prevention, on the scale of firing, on the scale of the reduction of the population of feral pigs, in the area of Germany and France. This is over 1 million of the population in both cases. And this is an ASF road fence for that area. There were many questions here that were completely compatible with each other and at the same time conflicting with reality. What is the legitimacy of such behaviour and our actions, for example, with regard to the European Union, which supposedly shoots wild boars off, reduces the population of wild boars in a distant, third place, or something else? No. He puts it in the coroner's seat, first. And don't deny it here, because you are at risk of suspecting the ignorance of documents and the ignorance of a very clear position on this matter. It is hard to imagine here that two countries, which in many cases - some believe that in all - they give the European Union a tone, such as Germany and France, are doing something contrary to the directives or the policy of the European Union. We have confirmed the great success of diplomatic Poland on 4 October this year, when in Prague we received acceptance for such a strategy from the whole Visegrad Group, Romania, Bulgaria, Slovenia, Croatia and the Finnish Presidency. That's it, period. The legitimacy on the part of the European Union, the Commission, is clear here, and this issue is almost irrefutable to Poland, it is insistently encouraging. I'm just gonna remind you of a case that's been rolled around here a lot of times in a lot of questions. This access to the discussion of 1200 professors, science workers from the beginning of this year, a letter supporting environmentalists, expressing a position very aggressively reluctant to hunt, collective hunting, sanitary hunting... What is left of this position if the European Union, the Commission, on the next day, has been enormously supportive of us? Some professors, perhaps most professors and scholars, had to pull out of it. And that's how it is so far. In a few speeches here he was mentioned, especially in Mrs Niedziela's speech... She showed us a book that we should read with Minister Ardanowski. It's exactly the opposite. After all, Professor Pejsak changed his position here, which he first gave, because everything he gave, he gave as a professor, as a scholar: The greatest hunter, the best and most effective is the wild boar himself. The virus has such a nature that the entire population in the square can handle it. But with our pigs, too. So what's left of this concept? Of course, there was an intermediate road, which, for environmental reasons and some other reasons, was also in some sense dysfunctional in terms of the effectiveness of hunting. At the moment, Mr. Professor is in favour of wildfire and population reduction. Apparently he did the opposite of what Mrs Niedziela recommended, because he had to read and Ardanowski and Giżyński, and they didn't have to read it, because they had to read it from the beginning when they decided on these issues, right. Ladies and gentlemen, there are several mechanisms that serve and serve this clearly. The breakthrough concerns - there was a question about it, so I answer - the command center, the one who will control it all. It is that for obvious reasons they are sufficient bodies in this area, as shown by the administration of Lubuskie voivodship, has handled it well. They were the first in the country to be shocked and necessary. They were preparing for it not for a few hours, but there was training here, all that had to be done preventively was done. There were only certain issues that had to be clearly defined, and so it happened. I was in Gorzów on November 15th. Every voivode as Chief of Crisis Staff - because that's how it works for today - will be equipped with the possibility to appoint services: from the Ministry of National Defence - troops, from the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration - Police, State Fire and Border Guard. And here I'm protesting: They're not going to be soldiers or cops who will shoot with their own weapons or their own personal weapons, or automatic weapons. They'll only be asked or recommended to fight ASF hunters who have permission to hunt and hunting weapons, and that's all they'll be using. They will receive an order, an order, it is a matter of individual voivods who must recognize and report it, so it will be under obvious and clear control: they will for a time, according to certain needs, act to reduce the population of feral pigs. A more effective and rational model cannot be imagined. There are no gaps or doubts about whether this is going to work. We have also come up with legal structures that, first of all, various ministries, will allow different organisations to cover costs, additional costs - both for your voivodeship as chief of crisis staff, and for example. State Forests, which will already be able to participate fully once these entries have been adopted, e.g. in building fences, partitions and other structures. The same will apply for example. Ministry of Infrastructure for Highway and Highway Continent. This was yesterday in the area of A2, A4, S5, i.e. Wielkopolska, completely organized, very strict, and by order of Prime Minister Morawiecki - handed down for implementation. This will be legally established, I hope, tomorrow as a result of the adoption of the act. It is necessary to penalize the conscious obstruction of hunting for two reasons. First of all, this obstruction, as we have observed, threatens human life, and that is the motive here, the main and obvious. Secondly, what is also very important here is a state task of enormous fundamental importance for the Polish state, and for this reason this penalization must be foreseen. It should be noted that this is not the case - we thought that on this subject We said, we've been teaching for the last few days, yesterday too, enough, but it turns out that no, this issue has been repeated today - walkers who will find themselves out there unwittingly in this area. They will not be punished because we will distinguish this from conscious and deliberate actions consisting in disturbing, preventing hunting and effective hunting. But, Minister. Of course, there will also be silencers in spite of what we heard today, which is also obvious in the case of effectiveness, but obviously regulated, right? It is not that the entire Polish Hunting Union, all hunters will get it under any circumstances. This is limited to this task, and it is ultimately connected to this task only today, which is to reduce the population of feral pigs. Ladies and gentlemen, the breakthrough is the fact that these two ministries, i.e. MSWiA and MON, have entered the game - very effectively. The question is, where is the right center... I've already explained that, but coordination is necessary, isn't it? So now that we're talking about the voivodships, each one of them is the boss and boss of the crisis staff... Each voivode or voivode has its own boss, because this chief is the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. So this system is closed and it's going to work without the smallest surprises, because it's been very carefully thought out. Of course, bio-insurance of hunters is also necessary. The possibility of covering costs, including those relating to motorways, I have already told you. Ladies and gentlemen! All the obligations regarding the written reply requested by you... This will, of course, be fulfilled by us. Also those specific ones, which, of course, I was largely unable to take into account due to a lack of time. Forgive me, but I have responded collectively to the tone of the commentary (the bell), to the tone of the debate, so in this sense you should be satisfied that I have said very sincerely and very practically what we have heard here. I think... I will be followed by the President, the Member of the applicant... You're welcome to leave, Minister. Secretary of State, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Simon Giżyński: ...which may refer to specific matters, because there were specific questions to him as well. Thank you. In corrigendum mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u238	Thank you, Minister. Mr Jakub Rutnicki, as corrected. You're welcome. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u239	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! Isn't that so... The Lord tells us that you have applied an effective Czech variant and that appropriate fences, fences and viruses have not spread in the district of Wschoski. That's not true. Minister! The actions were slow, there were no actions. Farmers were terrified - I came to them two weeks ago, to the municipality of Siedlec, i.e. the district of Wolsztyn - because there was simply no concrete action. It was all too late, and what is the result? The virus is already in Wielkopolska, it is in the district of Wolsztyn. The whole district of Wolsztyn is a red zone. Those are the facts. Perhaps if these actions were taken immediately - immediately - in fact, it might be possible to limit the effect of this virus. I say this in such a way that in a moment we have the district of Nowotomyski, the district of Międzychodziki. The actions must be faster, because if they are so slow, unfortunately this virus is gradually spreading. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u240	Thank you very much, sir. You're welcome, Minister. He's got 15 minutes?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u241	Mr. Speaker! I told you, and you can't deny that I put up a thesis that could be completely proven that we were doing everything we could in the shortest time. And every piece of this job after November 15th proves it. Oh, no. We couldn't have put it in August or June. No. The time after that is... We did everything we could in the shortest time and on the greatest scale. And I confirm that once again by answering your question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u242	Thank you, Minister. Please, the rapporteur for the committee, Mr Robert Telus. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u243	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Ministers! I'll start by thanking you. I would like to thank the ministers and the legal services who helped us make this bill. I think that - as I said before - this bill is expected, and I hope it will come into force as soon as possible. Therefore, thank you very much for helping me write this bill. There were some questions. Maybe I'll try answering some of them block-by-block, too. Several parliamentarians accused that there is no Minister Ardanowski that there is no government attorney for the fight against the ASF. That's not true. This is also for Mr Urbaniak. Is that right? Okay, Urbaniac. Minister Simon Giżyński, who is in the Chamber, is responsible for the fight against the ASF. He's responsible, he's in the courtroom, and he's on the case. There is also a group, there is an interministerial team, there is also an established working group, so that it is not so that it is not established. I think that some Members have just said that out of ignorance, which is why I just want to correct it. As far as specific questions are concerned. One of the first Members, I don't have it written down, I don't know if Mr Aichler was talking about the NIK report. Yeah, that's true. This report of NIK was devastating, but this report of NIK was done by President Krzysztof Kwiatkowski and was done for 2014, 2015 and 2016 by 2 years of government of the Civic Platform and Polish People's Party and one year of ours. And he said very strongly there, he said, among others. such things that ASF threatens food safety in Poland. And that's very important. It must be made clear that this is very important. And of course that's the way it is. ASF threatens food safety in Poland and we have to do everything about it. I've had a little bit of trouble. I speak primarily to the clubs of the Left and the Civic Coalition. If you'd listened, for example. Mr Aichler... I feel like he said, "Okay, do it fast, too late." It's the right thing to do. It's the right thing to do. But my colleagues at Mr. Aichler's club say something completely different: you must not shoot wild boars. Mr. Andrzej Rozenek participated in the demonstration and screamed very strongly during the demonstration that the PiS was killing wild boars and that he was against killing wild boars. It's a split personality, isn't it? So what do we really want? Mr Ajchler, I am addressing Mr Ajchler, and it must be established at the club whether we are in favour of reducing the wild population because it is one of the vectors or not. The same is true of the Civic Platform Club. A Member from Wielkopolska says it's wrong, do it fast. Because it's bad. You have to do it. Tell your friends. How many friends here have spoken against this law, which is a step? Some say it's a small step, some say it's too late to be introduced... All over Poland... ...but this is a bill that needs to be introduced and that helps. You should at the Civic Coalition determine whether you are in favour of reducing the boar or against it. But don't lecture me, it's to be corrected. After all, these statements show that really, when you listen, you don't know what's going on, whether you want to or don't want to. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] We're still talking about this bill, ladies and gentlemen. We're still talking about this bill. As regards the costs of the fight, as such a question has been raised, the dear state, in 2014, 16 million and already in 2017, when it ruled Law and Justice - 98 million, while in 2018 203 million were foreseen for the fight against ASF. See, 16 million in 2014. Member of Urbaniak. I've already told you about this case. I would like to inform you, because the statement was very reasonable, that the attorney is appointed, is appointed an interministerial team. Mr Rutnicki. I also said that, however, we need to make a deal at the club about what we want, whether we want this bill to be good and whether it's a step forward, whether this bill is bad or are we against, as some of the fellow Members of the club say, which are attacking very hard... And you guys have different opinions about this, too? ...and even - as I said - compare... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Your Marshal... I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. Some of the members of the committee were opposed to shooting wild boars, reducing wild boars and comparing man to wild boar. Ladies and gentlemen, this shows how it works in your environment. I'm not saying this maliciously, I just want us to say together here over the divisions that this fight needs to be fought. There were questions about the wild boar population. In the 1980s, the wild boar population in Poland was in the range of 50 and 80 thousand, in the 1990s. - under 100,000 and in 2008, in 2009, in 2010 - 200 000. Twice as much. Bravo. At the moment we're reducing, various statistics show that at this point, after the gunshots, there's about 80 and 90 thousand. It's too much anyway, and this reduction needs to be made. Several Members referred to research and the statements of 1,000 scientists. In fact, it was those scientists who banned wild boar shooting in 2014. The minister listened to them, and that ban was introduced. That was in 2014. And that's what made it so big. In fact, five scientists signed the list and the rest were signatories who just signed. Not 1,000 people, just 800, ladies and gentlemen. If you read it, you would know that not 1,000 people, only 800, and the signatories who signed under this letter. And five scientists. Ladies and gentlemen, I can say from this speaker that those five scientists who caused the increase in the wild population in Poland, because in 2014 the shooting of wild boars was banned, takes among others. responsibility for such decisions, and you are still quoting them today. How can you do that? Mr Dyduch spoke of all of them. I agree 100%. That's right, it's not just a case of hunters, it's not just a case of officers we involve in these hunts, it's a case of All of us: and scientists, and breeders, and farmers. It's a matter for all of us. And here I agree with Mr Dyduch, even though he is from the Left, as to how he is. We all need to get involved in this case. Prophylaxis is our business together. Mr Kaczmarczyk. What if in 2014... Ladies and gentlemen, what would happen? We have an example of the situation in the Czech Republic. The Czech Republic closed the area where the fire was found, and these wild boars were fired, and they were fenced, and today the Czech Republic has no ASF. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I do not want to bounce the ball that the situation in 2014 is to blame, because that is not the point, ladies and gentlemen. But it would be that if we fought back then, there would not be all this discussion today, there would not be this tragedy which is in Polish agriculture. Mr Sachaiko. Another step, but a tiny step. I agree that maybe little, depends on how we measure this step, because they are taller people and have big steps and are lower and have small steps, but this is a step forward, another step forward in the fight against ASF that we are taking. If anyone understands it, they say it's a step, and if someone doesn't understand it, they say it's a scandal, a disgrace, and all sorts of words like this. I told you about the old recommendations. There was talk of conclusions. Over 3.5,000. And the Minister's fault that there are no more. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the farmers who make these proposals. Over 3.5,000. applications for PLN 201 million. That's over three and a half thousand. PLN 201 million have been paid out. Mrs Hanaczyk. Wouldn't it hurt to reduce boars? Ladies and gentlemen, wouldn't a reduction in pig farming hurt? Of course it'll hurt more. Of course a man shouldn't go into wild boar reduction that much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have spoken to many wise hunters. Because there were hunters who screamed, "You mustn't shoot what you're doing, you're firing all the wilds." But sensible hunters, and there are most of them in Poland who have been talked to, said: Of course, it is a very far-reaching movement, but this tragic situation, which is in Poland at the moment, causes us to do so. They know it, hunters feel it, and they're reasonable about it. On the other hand, not all politicians are wise to do so. They're asking if a reduction in boars wouldn't hurt. And the reduction of pigs, and that's pork-gasping? It doesn't matter if the pig or the sow or the fattening pig is gassed because there's a fire. Can't you see that, ladies and gentlemen? Mr Mark Matuszewski's question. In Łódź by then 7300, over 7300 boars were slaughtered. There's no fire in Łódź yet, and thank God. As I said, there is a district of Piotrkowski, which is the second district in terms of pig breeding in Poland. But I'll tell you, ladies and gentlemen, to be true about what I'm saying, the yellow zone has already entered Łódź. It's about the district of Skierniewicki, the district of Rawski. Yesterday afternoon it was reported that it was also about my district, about the Opoczyński district. Yellow zone, i.e. There's no ASF yet, but there's already a threat to ASF. In my Opoczyński district, this yellow zone is already very regrettable, because my district is neighbouring, as I said, with the Piotrków district, which is very important to me at the moment, because if there, God forbid, this virus appeared, it will be a real rubble. Ladies and gentlemen! One more thing. I'm a breeder, I also grow animals. I know what it means to a breeder if he sees his dead animal. I've seen many times, because if a man raises animals, the falls are always there. Ladies and gentlemen, this is no longer a question of gold, because very often part of our hall, some of the public is trying to push the farmers into this margin of gold: because they are only after money. Ladies and gentlemen, the breeder feels here in his heart. [[Applause]] When I was driving to my paddock and I saw a dead foal or other animal, I couldn't feel the money. That's when you don't feel the means. Breeders aren't too bad to spend money on a vet because they feel it. If you're trying to push farmers and farmers that way, that it's only about the gold, then you just don't know, you don't understand what it means to be a breeder, a real breeder. It's what you do with your heart, with sensitivity, not just money. Maybe that's what you think. Mr Paszyk asked for action on behalf of the farmers. These are the actions, ladies and gentlemen, the next steps. These are not the only actions, I look towards Mr Pasyk, which we have started, which we have been leading from the beginning. Like I said, there are measures we're spending. We spend over PLN 200 million a year on liquidation, on the fight against ASF. Isn't that enough? How much did you spend? Again, I apologize for saying that because I don't want to hit and blame. I take responsibility for this, too, because I've been a member for four years. I'm aware that I also take responsibility for what's going on. In 2014, 16 million were spent, and we spend more than 200 million a year on the fight against ASF. Do you see the difference? I think you see the difference. Mr President, you are asking about the procedures. There are liquidation procedures. In the Piotrkowski district, I give again an example of the Piotrkowski district, I hope that they will forgive me for passing it over and over again, there are maneuvers to be prepared on this subject. The governor and actually a political colleague, because from the PSL, every now and then with the services, organizes maneuvers to be prepared if it comes. It's not all that good. Everyone there takes it very seriously, we all take it very seriously. And I also recommend that in other counties we approach it in such a way as to be prepared. As I said, in the Łódź voivodship, but most of all it is the Piotrkowski district, at the moment 500 pieces are reported for sanitary discharge. This is what we all caused: and my person, and the voivode, and the vet of the voivodship Mr. Włodzimierz Skorupski. We all did it. This is another sanitary discharge. The ASF isn't there yet. We care about this county because we know how important it is to us. Mr Dolata. Let me be brief: I agree with what Mr Dolata said, 100%. Mrs April, the fence in Germany. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what I'm talking about. In Germany, they can do 800,000. reduce wild boar. In Germany, they can put up 120 km of fence because they can't afford it. And you're criticizing this? I'm not looking at the Member. These are our actions. They don't feel sorry for the 800,000. The arts, because they know that the national interest, the breeding business is more important than a few wild boars in the woods. And some of you just can't understand it. Mrs Sowińska. I don't think I'm gonna say anything. The Member was also in Piotrków at a meeting with farmers. There farmers, I saw, they explained to her that this is a very important thing. I see that you have not understood this until today. There was also a question, I think, of Mr Sloppy, if I'm not mistaken, but I didn't write down hunting plans. Ladies and gentlemen, to this day 130% has been made. these minimum plans, because the plans specify a minimum, not a maximum. [[♪ The bell ♪]] To this day, 130% has been done. The hunting year lasts until March, so there will be much more. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm almost done. This is a very important issue for Polish farmer, a very important issue for Polish pig farming, a very important issue for our Polish economy. I ask you to pass this bill. I also ask that we all take this matter very seriously, do not try to do political ideology, what some try to do in the case of this law, because it harms the interest of the Polish farmer and Polish interests. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u244	Thank you very much, sir. In the procedure of correcting Mr Andrzej Rozenek. One minute. You're welcome. But the Member did not speak. But you've replaced him, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u245	Mrs. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, You called me out with your arrogant statement about the protests. Mr President, you have ruled for four years. You have done nothing to help farmers master this truly tragic disaster, the ASF virus. Today you're trying to make your abandonment wild, but it's not the wild ones that are guilty. Professor Andrzej Elżanowski, a scientist, clearly explained that only bioinsurance is an effective way to stop this disease. But if you did not believe Prof. Andrzej Elżanowski, who, I think, is a little better prepared than you for this subject, then we have practical experience. This practical experience concerns the governments of the predecessors when Minister Marek Sawicki was Minister of Agriculture. During this period, the procedure of this disease (the Bell) was limited to three counties. It's because of bio-insurance, not by shooting wild boars. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u246	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Ajchler. One minute. We need more wolves. The wolves would eat those wild boars.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u247	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! I'll go back to history. I remember that incident. I've recalled the occurrence. ASF in Poland... I don't know if you were in this group, but let me remind you: Aichler hasn't finished fighting Aujeszky's disease yet, and he's already invented a new disease. Roman, that's what PSL said because they were in charge. It was at the beginning when the first ASF fire in the country showed up. I asked about that NIK report. I blame you and your crew for the fact that when President Kwiatkowski told you what to do, pointing out the mistakes of others, you didn't take advantage of it. That's what the grudges are about. Shooting wild boars isn't gonna do much tonight. You have to take all these actions, massage them and, as you say, do everything in one. Then there's a chance. not that we (the bell) will eliminate ASF, but that this disease will simply not spread and will wait for the vaccine. Thank you. Nothing about that. You didn't say. How much money to develop a vaccine against this disease... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u248	Final corrigendum. Mr Paszyk, club PSL - Kukiz15. You're welcome. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u249	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The applicant accused me of what I want, after all, that everything is fine. I didn't charge anything. Mr. Speaker! The truth is, today you're very late catching up on how to fight the ASF and counter it. But you're not doing anything in advance again. There is little talk today about what awaits the farmer when ASF enters his farm. Today I called a specific meeting in Śmiślów near Czarnkow, in northern Wielkopolska, where dozens of farmers gave a clear signal, said: Tell us what we will do, what we will be doing when ASF enters our farm, when we see that this ASF is specifically in our pigsty? You don't do that, and it'd be worth it. This is good advice, not an attack, Mr President, so that we can understand each other. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you, Marshal. Corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u250	Thank you very much. Because this point is very emotional, and we're going to continue to investigate it on the committee, and I'm closing... Your Marshal, but I must refer to what happened. It was a corrigendum. You'll be speaking on the committee. It's not gonna be okay. I'm very calm. No, because you guys are about to fight. No, I'm really calm. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u251	Of course, I will only answer Mr Rozenk. Bioinsurance - of course it is. I didn't say anywhere that the reduction of boars would cause ASF in Poland to completely die. This is one of the vectors. Of course I do. I was talking about Mr. Rozenek protesting the reduction of boars. It was a mistake. You went out and protested. Mr Aichler said the same thing. All actions must be taken. I can't imagine, ladies and gentlemen, if I have breeding in an environment around the forest where there's an ASF virus, wild boars are sick, I'm going to create such a tight breeding that a rat won't bring a piece of wild boar into a pigsty. You know how hard this is gonna be? You know how hard this is? It won't be. It's just hard. It is very difficult to maintain bioinsurance in breeding if the virus is already in the environment. It's just hard. Joint action must therefore be taken. It's about reducing boars (the bell) and bioinsurance, and, of course, scientific research on the vaccine. Joint action - I encourage you to do so. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u252	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code Act and some other laws (prints no. 45 and 45-A). I ask the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice of Mr Marcin Romanowski to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u253	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law on the amendment of the Civil Procedure Code and some other laws submitted by the government responds to numerous requests made for intellectual property rights entities, entrepreneurs, also representatives of collecting societies for copyright management and doctrines concerning the introduction of specialized intellectual property courts into the Polish justice system. The growing number of intellectual property cases per year, their importance in terms of economic development as well as legal complexity requires that their identification be entrusted to specialised individuals. The aim of the project is to create a universal judiciary, i.e. in the selected four district courts and two appeals courts, separate organisational units, copyright and related law departments, industrial property and related unfair competition cases. As part of the existing judicial structure, the project will thus enable judges to specialise in intellectual property. The essence of the project is also the introduction of harmonised rules for the conduct of intellectual property matters, which have been expressed in the proposed institutions: firstly, the protection of evidence, secondly, disclosure or disclosure of evidence and thirdly, a call for information. The procedural rules, together with the rules governing the cognition of intellectual property courts, form the core of the proposed amendment. The draft introduces in intellectual property matters the obligation for a professional representative to represent the parties, except in cases where the value of the subject matter of the dispute does not exceed 20 000. zł and cases in which the court exempts the parties from the said obligation. This will contribute to the speed of proceedings both in terms of better concentration of evidence and in terms of indicating the legal basis for the claims made, which is important in intellectual property matters due to the possible variety of grounds for protection of the good in question. In the context of intellectual property proceedings, the project provides for two specific types of action, i.e. a counterclaim and an action to establish that certain acts do not infringe a specific patent, additional protection right, protection right or registration right. With regard to mutual redress arrangements, the draft shall be modelled on the European Union rules relating to another trade mark. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I remain convinced that, in view of the widespread fragmentation of intellectual property matters and their specific features, the proposed solutions will contribute to their concentration in profiled courts and create the right conditions for the development of specialised personnel in this area. I ask the High House to support this project. The government hopes that it will be dealt with quickly and effectively in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u254	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marek Ast made his statement in writing. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Bakerska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u255	My dear Miss Marshal! Fellow Members! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club on the bill submitted. Members of my club always support projects aimed at implementing the law of the European Union into the Polish legal order, especially when they concern the improvement of the judicial system and the enforcement of law in such an important area for the Polish cultural and scientific identity as intellectual property rights. In fact, it is as polite as it was to say to the Minister that this project expresses the demands which have long been presented by various kinds of organisations dealing with the widely understood intellectual property right. The need for innovation and the growing digital market are moving creativity, creativity and science into the world of the Internet and digital technologies to a large extent. This world has brought changes in the form of significant resources of human activity in the space of creative activities, while at the same time providing distribution tools, so that the proverbial Kowalski became not only the creator, but also received a tool to publish and disseminate his work. I will only mention web blogs, videos on YouTube or photos on Instagram. The creative character of today can even have the so-called. tweets. This project is very important because before the Parliament of this term there is also the implementation of another important law adopted this year in the European Union, i.e. copyright and related rights directives in the Digital Single Market. Poland should implement it by 7 June 2021, and this Directive introduces mechanisms to enable the distribution of works taking into account the proportional participation of creators, revenues of companies, including in particular digital giants commonly called GAFA, from the first letters of their names. The two amendments to industrial property rights adopted in 2019 pose equally serious challenges, including: extending the concept of invention. Both the revised industrial property right and the soon-to-be amended copyright and related rights will bring a number of new areas of dispute which, in order to ensure effective enforcement of intellectual property rights, will require universally accessible and specialised courts. Specialized courts, i.e. such courts as we have been dealing with since the 1960s in Germany or a tribunal in Portugal. Therefore, the establishment and proper organisation of specialised courts, which will be able to ensure proper enforcement of intellectual property rights, is a very important task today. During the first reading of the draft government law amending the Civil Procedure Code and some other laws, print no. 45, there are doubts, however, as to whether the draft law is indeed sufficient to safeguard these needs. At this stage, I will mention only my doubts, which are raised by the proposal of the article. 7 amendments, i.e. Amendments to Article 20 General Courts Act, whether or not the principle of right of access to court has been infringed. According to the 45 materials attached to the printing, the Minister also mentioned this - draft regulations are planned to set up four district courts and two appeals. It seems that law enforcement, e.g. for infringement of the right to the image or unfair competition of a small trader by a court of first instance more than 300 km away - distance e.g. between Suwałki and Warsaw - it can in fact restrict the right to court. Instead of facilitating the enforcement of intellectual property rights in line with the requirements of the Directive, such an organisation of justice can have the opposite effect. I'd have another idea, but I'll present it during the committee's work. Furthermore, in view of the innovative organisation of specialised courts in the draft proposal, I would like to draw particular attention to the important role of the Supreme Court in the castle. I also believe that, for this reason (the bell) for intellectual property matters should be reduced - I am almost done, your marshal - the limit of the amount of the value of the dispute, allowing for a cassation complaint, Article. 398.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u256	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Krzysztof Smishek, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u257	Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the coalition club the position regarding the draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code Act and some other laws, print no. 45. The project includes a number of changes that the environment and lawyers of practitioners and professionals have been demanding for years, but also important ones who work in collecting societies for copyright management. In particular, our club welcomes the request to set up separate civil courts in the field of property rights. The idea of setting up such courts with this specialisation is all the more desirable because the rules governing these issues are simply increasing, including at EU level. The development of technology and, as a consequence, the emergence of new, complex social, economic relations, as well as the emergence of new ideas and works of a new type, leads to an increasing number of extremely complex cases being brought to the courts, bordering on various areas of law. According to the project, separate organisational units will be set up within the framework of the general court to deal with copyright and related rights issues, but also industrial property and related unfair competition cases. It seems that this solution will arrange for the legal protection of these rights to be distributed in the current legal state. It should also be recalled that today this protection is assigned to different courts: common courts, administrative courts and one of the specialised departments of the District Court in Warsaw. Thus, the project will lead to the widest possible scope of cognition of these specialised courts. It is right here that the projectors argue that the fragmentation of judicial protection does not serve as an opportunity to educate properly prepared judicial staff, which in a professional way could resolve these complex cases. Certainly, it is a positive change to abandon the existence of a currently separate court, which on an exclusive basis settled cases concerning EU trade marks and Community industrial designs, i.e. the 13th Division of the District Court in Warsaw, and to assign this scope to others appointed under the Intellectual Property Courts Act. In our view, this will bring the court closer to the citizen and may help to speed up the prosecution of these cases by the courts. Leaving the Warsaw court with jurisdiction for those cases which remain the most complicated, is intended to promote the efficiency and speed of proceedings, as well as the development of a coherent judicial line. We believe that this can be done precisely because of the fact that this court has taken away EU trade marks and Community industrial designs. Here comes one important thing that Mrs Baker has also said. It is planned to create four departments in district courts: Gdansk, Poznań, Lublin, Warsaw and two departments in appeals courts: Poznań, Warsaw. Here our doubt - probably to be resolved during discussions in committees - whether these courts will be simply not enough. The north of Poland is not entirely, I would say, covered by these courts. So we're proposing to consider an increase in the number of these courts. You can also think about the fact that these courts are also in Wrocław and Krakow. Especially in Krakow, where at the University of Lublin there is a strong university center, the Institute of Intellectual Property Law, currently the Department of Intellectual Property Law. There's one more thing. According to the project, the District Court in Warsaw would be exclusively competent - and here I quote the bill - in matters relating to industrial property rights, which would also mean jurisdiction in cases such as. payment for licences. It seems that there is no need to burden the Warsaw court with exclusivity in such matters. A better proposal would be a regulation granting exclusive rights in intellectual property matters concerning the protection of computer programs, inventions, utility designs, topography of integrated circuits, plant varieties and secrets of a technical enterprise. But that's what we can talk about on the committees. The designers have also rightly stated the jurisdiction of these courts with regard to border issues, such as the protection of personal goods under civil law, which are subject to commercialisation. As a determinant of the jurisdiction of an intellectual property court in the protection of personal property, the designer assumed the link between this protection and the commercial use of personal property or scientific or inventive activities of an entity seeking legal protection. The project once talks about intellectual property cases, and once about infringement cases. In our view, in our view, we should clarify and standardise terminology. And one last very important thing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The bill introduces a lawyer's coercion. There may be a discussion here, and we are hoping for a good discussion in the Parliamentary Committees. On the one hand, the solicitor's coercion professionalizes proceedings before courts, but on the other hand, it may, or even certainly, increase the costs of proceedings. Go ahead and finish it, sir. And one last thing. It's a 45-A print project, that enforcement department stuff. In our opinion, this is nothing to do with the matter of this project. It seems that it would be better just to draw up a separate bill. He's really not hanging out with himself. Thank you. Thank you very much. On the other hand, I would like to say on behalf of the Left Club that we support this bill, but we also request that it be referred to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, as well as to the Committee on Culture and Media. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u258	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk made his statement in writing. Please, Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u259	Around the Confederation will vote against this bill, although not all for the same reasons. I will state the reasons why I will vote against. They do not need to reflect the reasons why everyone will not agree to this law. Copyrights are actually two institutions, on the one hand recognition of authorship and on the other hand copyright property rights. While the recognition of the author does not raise doubts, it is simply the fact that someone is the author, and it should be granted to him, and he who maintains something else ascribes authorship, he simply uses falsehood, lies, and copyright property rights are in fact a form of monopoly to reproduce a certain state of affairs. These rights are misnamed intellectual property. In fact, this is no property, and copying is no stealing. It is in fact a law competitive to property. It is based on some arbitrary decisions, forcing far-reaching regulations to pose a constant threat to freedom of expression, as is the case for so-called. ACTA 2, the Copyright Directive in the Digital Single Market, which we will implement and to which this act is probably a pre-emptive act. Copyright is a jungle of laws, highly arbitrary and discretionary. There are arbitrary exceptions to these discretionary provisions, even more arbitrary exceptions, and even exceptions to those exceptions. If we go even further into this directive of the European Parliament, there are such constructions of multi-storey exceptions. It is a completely non-intuitive, discretionary design that forces far-reaching regulation. And it is the European Parliament directive that is an example of how citizens' freedoms are sacrificed, freedom of expression to increase the profits of media companies. I will not support anything that strengthens this pathology that I consider the current copyright system to be. Furthermore, I believe that the lawyer's coercion mentioned earlier is also inappropriate. Everyone should have the right to decide whether they want to defend themselves or with a lawyer. For this reason and for other reasons the Confederation will vote against.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u260	Thank you, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. As the first Mrs Iwona Kozłowska, the Civic Coalition. One minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u261	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! This draft law is not fundamentally bad, although it contains certain jurisdictional restrictions concerning courts. He wants to entrust only four courts with the power to adjudicate on intellectual property disputes. This is mentioned in the justification for this project. They are to be District Courts in Warsaw, Gdańsk, Lublin and Poznań. Such a solution raises doubts. Why? Because he violates the laws of the court. This involves significant expenditure for the parties to the proceedings. Citizens living in towns far from large centres will have problems reaching these courts. Poles are increasingly innovative and create more and more intellectual goods. Thus, they will have limited access to the enforcement of their rights, and after all, copyright disputes mainly concern young people. Please also note (The bell) that the sole competence for the recognition of cases concerning the protection of computer programs is to have the District Court in Warsaw. It is also the main area of activity of young people. Go ahead and finish. All these cases will go to the same courthouse. Is it not appropriate to set up such courts in every city where the appeal court is based? There are 11 of them in the country. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u262	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Monica Falej, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u263	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to draw attention above all to the so-called. Lawyer's coercion. Everyone shall have the right to a fair, public hearing without undue delay by a competent, independent, impartial and independent court. However, there is another issue that should be taken into account: costs. In that case, is there no concern that the solution will introduce a restriction on access to court? And isn't that also because of the cost? That is why I wanted to ask you what is the reason for such a provision and whether you have taken into account whether the costs that the parties will have to bear will not be that limitation. Right in the access room. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u264	Thank you very much, Member. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Marcin Romanowski to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u265	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! As regards the questions or comments made by Mrs Katarzyna Piekarska in relation to the article. 7, i.e. with regard to the right to access to the court, but also the doubts expressed in other observations of the honourable states, I would say in this way that we have analysed the impact of the cases to the courts here. This is linked to the number of cases that actually affect individual courts. There are courts to which no such case is affected within a year. It is also worth noting, ladies and gentlemen, that, first of all, these indicated locations are so far proposals. We will, of course, continue to analyze this, even after this year's data has gone down. It is also worth noting one thing: only this jurisdiction of the District Court in Warsaw is regulated by law, whereas as regards the remaining courts, these appeals and district courts, the delegation is here in the regulation and this can therefore be changed, increased depending on the development of the situation and on the basis of analyses that will be in the course of its operation, I hope, after the High House has adopted this draft and adopted the regulation, as this system will function. As regards this constitutional question about access to court, here we are really dealing with balancing, because, on the one hand, we have a challenge in the form of specialisation, and on the other hand, this access and necessarily specialisation requires a narrowing. As I say, the number of these district courts -- four -- this is the proposal we are now putting forward in the proposed regulation, but this can change, increase in situations where these cases would indeed be more, and if this differentiation or change were also territorial in terms of the impact of the cases. So that, in response to this issue, this location was indicated as a definitive finding in the Regulation. With regard to Mrs Piekarska's second remark, which concerns the limit of the amount allowing for the cancellation, we are, of course, also open to discussion during the legislative process. This is not our final offer to insist on. As regards Mr Smishek's questions, on the first point, I think, we agree with you here. Namely, this is exactly the wording of the rule - this is a designed article. 479. As far as these conceptual differences, intellectual property disputes, intellectual property violations are concerned, I think they are the result - I apologise - of the fact that the idea of an intellectual property case includes, in addition to infringement cases, the question of whether or not to pay. So here are the conceptual differences, but if there's some kind of technical-legislative error, it's obviously going to be corrected, but I don't think it is. As far as the lawyer's coercion is concerned, the attorney's coercion, more generally speaking, we have here, of course, the possibility of dismissal, and there is also a limit of 20,000. zł. As far as the need for legal action is concerned, it has indeed been the subject of a number of discussions at the stage of the agreement of this project, and I will stress very extensive arrangements. I think that all stakeholders have been consulted and heard. At least that is the opinion of the environment. There was a compromise that seemed satisfactory. On the one hand, we also have a requirement to guarantee the efficiency of the proceedings and the rights of the parties, because these are very often very complex issues in terms of their legal dimension. The parties are very often unaware of the specific claims they have. On the other hand, we have the possibility of being released if the party so requests, or if the court can also recognise it from its own motion, e.g. pointing out whether, given the fact that professionals with qualified employees do not in fact need this coercion, they do not need a proxy. As far as Mr Śmishek's recent attention to enforcement departments is concerned, it is indeed a minor regulation which involves the fact that we are introducing the optionality of another type of specialized enforcement departments here, considering that the obligation which was provided for in previous arrangements has been considered excessive and unnecessary after analyses. We therefore propose the introduction of a mandate for the President of the Court, who will decide whether such a department is needed or not. The relationship is this type with other regulations. On the other hand, the scope or extent of this self-regulatory amendment is so small that it seemed unjustified to initiate a minor legislative process. As far as Mr Sosnier's comments are concerned, well, they are, of course, such, I would say, even philosophical-legal considerations concerning the meaning of ownership. They are undoubtedly interesting and I do not hide that for me, as people from the academic community, they are extremely interesting and important. It's worth thinking about. I would say so much here: I would not like to conduct this kind of reflection at a time when we are talking about a project which is not of a material and legal nature, but of process and competence. If it's okay, I'll keep that in mind. As regards the two questions made by Mrs Kozłowska, they were indeed also concerned with this issue of access to court. I think I already answered that question. Let me stress once again that only Warsaw is envisaged as this mandatory court. Besides, we have also had an exclusive right here so far with regard to EU brands, and now there are also technical signs, so it seems that this justification is and does not in any way undermine access to justice, and to the rest, I repeat, there is a delegation to the regulation. It's not settled. This will still be analyzed, which locations, as far as these courts are concerned. It is also possible to increase if analyses show that this is necessary. As far as the second question is concerned, I think I also answered, referring just to the exceptions to attorney-clienting, which is the limit of 20,000. zł and also the possibility to apply for exemption from this obligation. The court may also do so ex officio and, of course, can apply for an ex officio representative on general principles arising from the Code of Civil Procedure. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u266	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u267	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the government draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code Act and certain other laws contained in print 45. The aim of the project is to implement numerous demands from creative circles and entrepreneurs and organisations involved in collective management of copyrights concerning the specific location of intellectual property and related rights in civil proceedings. Clearly, these voices must be accepted, as in the age of the Internet and technological progress, copyright protection becomes a real challenge requiring highly specialised courts and representatives prepared to do so. The Government's submission provides for appropriate amendments to the Civil Procedure Code that meet these expectations. A new Division IVg is introduced in the Code: Intellectual Property Procedure, which includes existing rules of procedure and new procedural arrangements. Intellectual property matters will be dealt with by four departments - intellectual property courts in district courts in Gdańsk, Poznań, Lublin and Warsaw and two departments in appeals courts in Poznań and Warsaw. As the introduction of these regulations is necessary for the effective protection of copyright and other related rights, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice requests that the proposal be directed to further legislative work.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u268	In the bill, the government set itself the objective of bringing Polish law into line with European Union law. Currently, infringements of intellectual property rights are dealt with by different courts. First of all, these are common courts and the Supreme Court. Some industrial property cases concerning not violations of these rights, but, above all, obtaining protection, are dealt with by the Provincial Administrative Court in Warsaw and the Supreme Administrative Court as a result of complaints against the decisions of the Patent Office of the Republic of Poland. Cases concerning Community trade marks and Community industrial designs shall be dealt with by a specially established department of the District Court in Warsaw. The emergence of specialised branches of appeals and district courts hearing intellectual property rights cases should be considered to be very relevant and legitimate, but it is worrying that these courts will be very few. At 11 appeals courts only two of them, and at 45 district courts only four will settle such cases. Besides, the placement of these courts is a bit strange, for example. None of them are located in the south-western part of Poland. For procedural parties residing at the southern edge of the Opole Voivodeship, at the border with the Czech Republic, it will be appropriate, located far north, District Court in Poznań. From this point on, I call on the Minister to extend the functional jurisdiction to a minimum of four appeals courts and eight district courts. Please note, however, that even an increase in the cast of judges in this pre-appointed group of courts will not produce the desired results in the speed of proceedings, because outside people are still needed courtrooms, and the court buildings are not made of rubber. An important element of this project is the introduction of a mandatory replacement by professional attorneys - lawyers, legal advisers and patent attorneys. Given that the compulsory replacement generates additional costs and that standard cases may occur where, without prejudice to the efficiency and quality of the proceedings, the party may appear on its own, a derogation from the general rule is provided for in the draft. The General Court may exempt the parties, on application or of its own motion, from compulsory representation by the agents, if the circumstances, including the complexity of the case, do not justify a compulsory replacement. The exemption may be granted in any state of the case, including at the request of the party making a procedural letter initiating the procedure. This also applies to cases in which the value of the subject matter of the dispute does not exceed PLN 20,000. This means that the exception in question is not applicable in non-essential cases. On the occasion of this amendment, I would like to remind the Minister, who is at the same time the Attorney General, that there has been a huge increase in the number of crimes identified by the police and the prosecution in the completed preparatory proceedings under the Copyright Law and Related Rights Act. In 2015, 6643 crimes of this kind were committed, and in 2017 there were already 14 031, i.e. in a short time there was an increase of 111% in crime. I hope that the government's criminal policy on criminal prosecution and effective protection of all intellectual property rights actors will in the near future be much more thoughtful and more effective than what has been done so far. As this is the first amendment of the Civil Procedure Code in the current term of office of the Sejm, summing up the legislative work on its changes in the previous term, I would like to remind you that this code was the most frequently amended law. For the last four years, the Code of Civil Procedure has been amended as many as 60 times, an average of 15 times a year, more than once a month. I hope that during the current parliamentary term, its changes will be more thoughtful and will be made no more than once every six months, in order to ensure the stability of legal law in Poland at a decent level. Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 is in favour of the continuation of legislative work on this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u269	The discussion requested additional referral of the bill to the Committee on Culture and Media. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the Parliamentary draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act and the Corporate Income Tax Act, print No 103. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in this case the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Law on State Sanitary Inspection (print No 46). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Mr Janusz Cieszyński to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u270	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Government, it is my pleasure to present to the High House a bill amending the State Sanitary Inspection Act. Ladies and gentlemen, the main task to be carried out by the Ministry of Health is to strengthen the State Sanitary Inspection, which is the most important institution for public health. It is an institution employing about 16 thousand. persons. It is an institution that is present in the life of each of us, and it can be said that from the moment of birth until death. Ladies and gentlemen, a health inspection today operates in a formula in which the Minister of Health appoints and dismisses the chief health inspector, the head of the central office, the voivodeships together with the chief health inspector appoints Provincial inspectors. On the other hand, as far as district inspectors are concerned, they are appointed by the elders. The main objective of the bill is to change this situation by introducing a verticalisation in order to improve the efficiency of the State Sanitary Inspection. As a result of this change, the appointment of the district health inspector will be the responsibility of the Provincial Inspector, who will in turn be appointed at the request of the chief health inspector with the approval of the voivodship. Ladies and gentlemen, the change we are proposing should lead to what the Minister of Health and the Chief Health Inspector of the Entrepreneur have been expecting for many years, i.e. to harmonise the case law and the way inspections work throughout the country. This is extremely important because certainty, as regards not only the content of the rules but also the practice of their application, is one of the basic expectations that all business organisations have towards the government as a whole. The change proposed by us also received the support of organisations representing sanitary inspectors, i.e. it can be said that both outside and within the organisation there are positive voices towards the model that was adopted in this project by the government. In addition to this change, the project provides for the establishment of the State Sanitary Inspection of the Ministry of Interior and Administration and the Military Sanitary Inspection. Maybe not even as much as it provides for their appointment, because these institutions already function today, as they clarify the principles of their functioning. They will be the same in terms of such general principles, with those which govern the functioning of the State Sanitary Inspection, with the extremely important difference, however, that the Military Sanitary Inspection and the sanitary inspection of the Ministry of Interior and Administration have experts appropriate to these areas of life. In our view, this is a way that will strengthen these institutions even more and allow them to function more efficiently than ever before. On behalf of the government, I kindly ask the High House to support this project, which is expected by the social side, which is expected by the sanitary inspectors themselves. We want Polish entrepreneurs in contact with the sanitary inspection to have easier cooperation, to have more opportunities and thus to do business or facilitate business activity - which is one of the main objectives of the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki from the very beginning - to become possible in this respect. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u271	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. As first Member, Mr Tomasz Latos, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u272	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I remember that when the change was made, probably in 2010, quite quickly, at least we in the environment working in the Health Committee, had some doubts about whether these changes had gone the right way. There have been quite a lot of situations, including on the occasion of parliamentary duty or our work in committee, when it was clear that the power of inspection, in this case the power of health inspection, is that it has a vertical structure, a certain independence, and thus can effectively enforce the various activities that occur in one or another district, regardless of what political option in a given place governs. Even then, a few years after that change, such voices appeared, but it is worth going back to this topic and making an appropriate correction to restore this verticalization. This project is going in this direction, which has been discussed for a long time, and which for some time, for several years, has not been implemented, probably for very different reasons. It must be made clear that no one in government, no one in government receives anything, on the contrary, honest entrepreneurs, smart self-governments give some additional weapons in the form of an independent institution, an independent inspection which will be able to carry out checks in a wise, good and effective manner. We, ladies and gentlemen, often look at what is happening in the world, what is happening in other European countries, probably in the case of health care, even more often than in other areas. I can be said after many years, after 30 years of transformation, that not everything that was later mapped and transferred to Poland was a model actually better and more effective. While certain organisational changes concerning this main part of health care are certainly worth considering, they are certainly worth analysing and implementing in Poland, the sanitary inspection is an example of the fact that some important tasks for you can be carried out better than those carried out in other countries. When it comes to events that we have heard about, when an outbreak of threat has been sought in countries even of the old Union, I can say, and I refer here not only to the times of the rule of law and justice, because I spoke with the chief health inspector, that also during the previous ruling coalition, when there were certain events, e.g. In Germany, the health inspector said this openly, in Poland the effectiveness, the speed of detection would be much higher, because we simply have better experience in this respect, we are better organized. Therefore, it is worth giving an additional instrument, it is worth giving an additional opportunity by building the independence of district inspectors so that they can effectively, on behalf of the inhabitants, not only on behalf of the chief health inspector, but also on behalf of the local community, effectively pursue this security, often completely basic, and not necessarily understood by various local decision-makers. This is also a good solution for these good, honest employers, as the Minister said. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this is why, High Izbo, I have the honour of speaking on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to support this project and, of course, we are waiting for it to be referred to the Committee on Health to continue to proceed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u273	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Rajmund Miller, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u274	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I have the honour to present my position on the government's draft law amending the Health Inspection Act. Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker spoke of a logical justification for changes to this law, namely vertical subordinates. This, in fact, has an impact on the efficiency of the organisation and the security of the flow of information. At the same time, we have reservations about many entries in this act. In our view, the authority of the Chief Health Inspector to appoint regional inspectors and district inspectors constitutes a kind of threat arising from the uninteresting experience of the previous 4 years of the PiS government, as these functions may be appointed by party key people, which will not guarantee the independence of the inspectors who have been appointed on the basis of the competition. A very serious reservation is that the employees of the district stations will be employees of the voivodship stations. Today, with the problem of underfinancing both health care and, of course, health care, there is also a danger that, in the absence of funds, first reductions, first decommissioning of laboratories, etc. will take place in district stations, which will pose a significant threat to public and health safety in the field. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, the opinion that came from BAS also indicates that the bill is prepared carelessly and incorrectly. Ladies and gentlemen, BAS, like the Member, claims that this law should be the subject of further legislative work. The project assumes what I have been telling you at the moment. Mr. Speaker! It is not that this law does not deprive local governments of the possibility to influence sanitary and epidemiological safety. We're gonna demand a change because you're repealing the article here. 12a paragraph. 3b, in which it was mentioned precisely that the mayors, mayors or starosts may demand certain measures from the sanitary and epidemiological station. Today, you are denying them this ability. So it's the other way around, and they won't be able to ask the health care department for protection, for certain actions. On the other hand, the health centre will be able to enforce, require health and epidemiology measures from these institutions. So it's not exactly like that. The next condition is that the state in this law has mixed various rules. In the Health and Epidemiological Inspection Care Act, you introduce provisions for specific, departmental inspections which should not be included in this Act. This includes inspections both at the Ministry of National Defence and at the Ministry of National Defence. These are today's reservations of the Sejm Analysis Office for this bill. There are even more reservations, but the main ones are the ones I have spoken of. Therefore, the Civic Coalition Club will not support this law unless its provisions are amended, if the local authorities are deprived of the possibility to influence sanitary and epidemiological safety, if there is still a risk that inspectors will be appointed not as a result of the competition, but centrally, by the employee, because the chief inspector is a government employee, and once again I stress that, unfortunately, given the bad experience, there is a concern that they will be filled with a key not professionally but politically. The Civic Coalition Club will not support the bill in this form. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u275	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Marek Rutka, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u276	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Left Club on the government draft law amending the Law on State Sanitary Inspection. Food safety issues should be important to all of us, however, than the air we breathe. As long as the poisoned air contributes to the death of about 40,000. Poles and Poles on a yearly basis, deaths due to diseases of the digestive system account for about half of this value. Since 1992, a continuous increase in the life expectancy of men and women has been observed in Poland. In 2012, it was 72 years and 81 years respectively. The results show that the increase in life expectancy over the last decades has resulted to a significant extent from positive changes in the nutrition of our country's population. However, despite the increase in life expectancy, it is significantly lower than in other European countries such as Germany, France and Switzerland. Of the 40 European countries in terms of life expectancy, Poland is only 26th place. According to the Central Statistical Office, despite an increase in life expectancy over the last 2 years, i.e. under the current coalition, we are seeing a decrease in life expectancy. In 2018, life expectancy was shorter than in 2016 by approximately 1.5 months for men and nearly 4 months for women. The statistics on deaths due to digestive diseases remain important for these data, which are between 35 and 57 people per 100,000 per region of our country. residents. Referring to the decrease in the average life expectancy in Poland, one can risk saying that a venom of hatred that swells from party media can harm no less than a venom of sausages. It is worth mentioning here the most important results of the NIK report of 3 January this year, concerning the supervision of the use of food additives. Currently, with regard to the use in food, more than 330 additives are acceptable, which in food products can perform 27 different technological functions. The average consumer, i.e. each country, consumes about 2 kg of additives per year. From myself as a nutrition technology I can add that most of these substances were not yet known 20 years ago. I'm going back to the NIK report. This report was based on data from three institutions: the health inspection we are talking about, the Trade Inspection and the Trade Quality Inspector of Agricultural and Food Articles. None of these institutions analysed the contents of all additives present in the food sample. The health inspection laboratories we are talking about today have only been able to carry out tests on 65 additional substances for more than 200 authorised limited substances. So about a third of the current substances were tested. The functioning of these three institutions of mutual competence, staff shortages, which my previous speaker mentioned here, financial and hardware, adversely affects the state of nutritional and epidemiological safety, which requires much deeper changes than is proposed in this law. And at this point, we're back to the substance in print 46. In general, the centralisation of the PIS structure, but here we are not talking about the PiS of course, as well as the establishment of a state county health inspector by a body of a joint government administration in the voivodship can be regarded as a step in the right direction, as it is beneficial to coordinate measures on epidemiological risks. However, with regard to the specific provisions in the draft law amending the State Sanitary Inspection Act, I note that there are no reasonable grounds for taking away the right to apply for action to ensure a sound state of health safety or to take action to remove such a threat to the authorities of local authorities. According to the Polish Districts Association, there are no known cases that local governments abuse this competence, and the deleted record allows for rapid response in case of threat. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, the Left Club asks for the restoration of the article. 12a paragraph. 3a and 3b. The Left Club also critically refers to the prohibition on persons working in state security bodies from 22 July 1944 to 31 July 1990. In view of these reservations, the Left Club requests that the project be referred to committee work and that two amendments be taken into account. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u277	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u278	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 I present my opinion on the government draft law amending the Act on State Sanitary Inspection. Ladies and gentlemen! During the previous term of office of the Sejm, we were able to observe many similar changes which were intended to ensure the smoother functioning of certain institutions, and in practice it ended with changes in staff, the taking away of powers from local government, and hence, the submission of government and centralization of subsequent spheres of functioning of our country. This was the case with agricultural advisory centers, voivodship environmental and water management funds, melioration management and water equipment and many, many others. All these changes, which were carried out by Law and Justice, had the same scenario. Everything started and ended only with personal changes, and the plans presented in the justifications for improving institutions did not take place. Not much, all of your changes have had bad consequences from the very beginning, especially in terms of the efficiency of the institution. The proposed amendment of the Act contains a justification in which the drafter presents further arguments to support the amendments made. Unfortunately, the general statements do not follow factual arguments, there is no reference to analyses or checks which would prove in a substantive manner the arguments put forward. For what is the argument that: the above solution is also to strengthen the voivodship as an authority representing the government in the field, or: it will contribute to improving the protection of business rights. The only reference to the above statements in the part of the justification which refers to the demands and opinions of trade unions or employers is the repeated request for financial support for sanitary inspections, including in particular the proper remuneration of workers. Unification of procedures and anti-epidemiological measures and mechanisms for conducting health policy at local and national level can be achieved without the need to change the appointment procedure of the county and voivodship health inspector or their deputies, which the project designer pays the most attention to in this draft amendment. Please tell us, therefore, what is the connection between the change in service dependency and the procedure for the appointment of district and voivodship health inspectors to the explanatory statement: a significant decrease in the level of implantation observed in recent years. Whether or not the projector has included in the explanatory memorandum his reasons without appropriate arguments based on specific analyses or conclusions from the inspection, our doubts arise from the complete and immediate omission of the district government by the appointment of the authorities of the State Sanitary Inspection. If the projector decides to include a record that the Regional Health Inspector is appointed and dismissed by the Chief Sanitary Inspector with the consent of the voivodship, then why cannot it be recorded that the Regional Health Inspector is appointed and dismissed by the Regional Health Inspector with the consent of the district governor, the more that the record of the article has been left. 12a paragraph. 3 of the State Sanitary Inspection Act and it is considered desirable that local authorities continue to have information on the state of health safety of the district and voivodship. The proposed amendments call into question the appropriate and effective action by the county to coordinate the operation of crisis management services. The changes proposed by the projector are contrary to the principle of decentralisation of public authority as set out in Article. 15 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Therefore, on behalf of the club, we propose an amendment to the above draft law, namely Article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 In its opinion, 3 would be replaced by the following: The State County Health Inspector shall appoint and revoke the State Provincial Health Inspector with the consent of the competent old-timer due to the seat of the relevant State Health Inspector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u279	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Grzegorz Braun, Circle of the Parliamentary Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u280	God bless you. Good evening. It is a late time, but an important matter, which is important inversely in proportion to the number of people directly involved in the procedure of the listeners. The circle of the Confederation will not in any way support another totaliztic project, which is puzzled by this House, plucked in a way worthy of the deepest regret, because in the propaganda package, which in fact serves to antagonize Poles and stigmatize a group of people who try to maintain still common sense and preserve freedom in the world in which totalizm leads and acts. I mean people who don't rush to submit to the medical procedures recommended by the state to their newborn children. They, in the justification for this project, which is presented in the High House, are identified as an alleged source of epidemiological threats. Yes, sir. People who shudder to give babies vaccinations for fear of the occurrence, which is a known fact of undesirable vaccination reactions, these people are trying to identify the authors of the project as a source of threats to the general public. It's completely unfounded, completely counterproductive. The fact expressed by the authors of the project of reducing the number of people vaccinated - which is characteristic that by using such vocabulary people are treated as cattle - can be debatable, because perhaps people who have not vaccinated the newborn simply oscillate around the European standard, where practices are not as risky as in Poland and where children are vaccinated, two infants are vaccinated. - three months. With us, the people's authority, I apologize very much, urges this and demands that we submit procedures with risky and often tragic effects to newborns. I would point out that European tribunals, which for many of you are a valid and final source of all knowledge, have already noted in their judgments that coercion into vaccination is an unacceptable interference in privacy, precisely the freedom of an individual who is so valuable to the Confederates. Ladies and gentlemen! It is built there, in spite of the extras, an atmosphere of increasing danger. Let me remind you that if we look at these statistics over the decades, we'll see that, for example. Scarlet's gone. Some of us may recognize scarlet fever from literature from the 19th century, the 20th century. Even today that word is in decline. Was there ever a mandatory vaccination against scarlet fever? No. There was no such vaccination. But it's gone. An epidemic threat vision is being created, while we have a law on the fight against infectious diseases and therefore the available instrument of authority is already available to carry out vaccinations in the event of a real threat. To sum up, we don't support totaliztic projects. We see in this project the desire to create no less, no more, only health police. And this is what we oppose, standing on the basis of traditional understanding of freedom, Polish freedom. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Praise God, we are not yet fully defined by people like the authors of this project. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u281	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask another question? If not, I'm closing the list. Since the President did not speak on behalf of the circle, please give him the floor in the questioning session. Good. You're welcome. I'm gonna cut it short. No, no, sir. You have to sign up for the question, and in order... As the first Mr Konrad Frysztak, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome. There's no envoy. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, PSL. There isn't. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition. There isn't. I'm here. There it is. Good. I didn't see it. I'm sorry. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u282	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, this morning we've been investigating the so-called. The muzzle bill, and even though we're talking about health care, it's the same thing as the other one. On the basis of this law, despite the beautiful but very shabby words made by Mr Tomasz Latos, it is clear how PiS wants to take over all forms of social life in this country. Up until now, the district health inspector has appointed an governor in some sort of agreement with the voivode. Now all this is taken away from local governments, i.e. the oldosts, i.e. the counties and cities on the rights of the county. I don't know why. It is used by entrepreneurs and writes: The aim of the proposed regulations is to improve the situation of entrepreneurs in the light of the actions of the state health inspection authorities. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm working with the health inspection... Thank you very much. ...and I've never had any problems with her, and businessmen don't have any problems with health inspection either. It's just the ownership of all areas of public life by the PiS, and that's all you want. [[Applause]] Maybe the inspector is hesitating, and that's why the problems aren't there?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u283	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Tomasz Latos, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u284	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I'll refer to the words of my previous speaker. (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo! I have been working in the Health Committee for 15 years and I remember very well the various situations, as well as the opinions of your club, that a really well-functioning sanitary inspection has its vertical dependence. Why? Because if there are situations, whether related to garbage dumps or to various other potentially dangerous issues for residents, sometimes the inspector is bound by local decisions and is not self-contained enough. We're trying to get him back on his own. I have a question for the Minister. Wasn't it so that, regardless of who ruled, there were - also in the past, for our predecessors (the bell) - purely party nominations? If someone wants to seek out such intentions, let them look at the time when he was in charge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u285	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jerzy Hardie-Douglas, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u286	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendment of the Act on the State Sanitary Inspection raises - at least my - mixed feelings. At first glance, it seems that the vertical relationship between the chief health inspector, the provincial and district inspector is correct, but the lowest action in this hierarchy of the district health inspector is not only about combating epidemics, of which so much is said in the justification, but also about controlling hundreds of shops, catering centres, medical offices, small production facilities. Getting rid of the old-fashioned possibility of choosing a district health inspector is another way to take the powers of local governments and further centralize the state, which is what you like so much. Currently, Poland's PiS is not a normal country. If this were a normal country, these reservations might be less. Therefore, there are concerns that the district sanitary inspector chosen by the PiS will in many places become a tool to combat people sympathizing with the opposition. Unfortunately, as (the bell) a long-term self-government officer I am almost sure that this will happen. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u287	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u288	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! We hear in the explanatory memorandum that the aim of this project is to strengthen the State Sanitary Inspection, only that the solutions that are in this law, absolutely - at least in a large part - do not strengthen and even weaken the sanitary inspection. How is the health inspection strengthened when the governor, the mayor or the president is taken away from the right to request, not to decide, to ask the health inspector to take action in a situation where there is a threat? He's not taking it. It's the mayor or the president who's responsible for the economy, for maintaining cleanliness and order. The elimination of wild landfills, the High Sejm, generally involves revealing various sanitary hazards. This is where you make decisions like this. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Second question. Wouldn't it be a strengthening to increase the level of wages in this inspection? People make very little money. Thank you. Exactly. For eight years. You've frozen your pay for eight years. But don't disturb me.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u289	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u290	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm very short. We like to stick to the principle of subsidiarity. If there's anything you can do at a lower level, there's no point in doing it at a higher level. Therefore, there is no reason to centralize such things as sanitary, veterinary or whatever. That's why we don't think this bill is necessary. The excess centralization usually hurts because the fish breaks from the head. In addition, I recall the situation when the Russians entered Bulgaria and 2 days after their entry it turned out that all posts until the district inspector were already filled by the Russians. The PiS also fills all possible positions. We think that's really what this is about. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u291	Thank you, sir. Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u292	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My club in the previous term was very often in favour of good projects, and in the case of projects that led to centralization, it was definitely for them. I will give an example of the centralisation of agricultural advisory centres which have been subordinated to the agricultural minister. They were supposed to work better, get better funding, be more effective, be more helpful to farmers. Turns out it was just used to turn not yours into yours. It was a whole reform that concerned agricultural advisory centers. What's the deal with this project? The Minister and Mr PiS said that these changes were dictated by the expectation of entrepreneurs who hoped that the case-law of the health inspection would be more friendly to them. This is nothing more than another human resources bill, which is supposed to turn not its own into its own and take away the powers of the county authorities. It has absolutely nothing to do with improving the quality of health inspection work. Entrepreneurs, if they are complaining about an inspection, are overly oppressive for this institution, not for who appoints the district inspector. In fact, I would ask - this is my question - to give real intentions. Are they certainly the same as the Members of the applicant, or are they the same as I am presenting it, that is, the next staff bill, which is supposed to eliminate the opposition, reduce the powers of local governments? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u293	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u294	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! This bill is a very sensible act. That's what I'd call it. That's what the health inspectors are talking about. Why? That's because at the moment the Starost is calling a district health inspector. He is also subject to many institutions. These institutions are not controlled by the district health inspector. They have to be controlled by the regional health inspector. Today, for example. In a city like Radom, a city on the rights of the county, Mr. President is under a huge hospital. The hospital must be often controlled. Mr President, the district health inspector cannot control it. Someone from the voivodship, a voivodship health inspector, not a county inspector, must come to check this hospital. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We made it happen, and that's how it works today. The district inspector is being appointed by this President. That is why this change is expected, it is an excellent change. Thank you very much and I ask you to answer the question about the savings in the state budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u295	Please, Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u296	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Four questions. First: What measures are envisaged by the Ministry of Health to improve the functioning of health inspection? Is it just a structural change or a qualitative change? Second: How should the proposed changes improve the functioning of entrepreneurs? How will you inform these entrepreneurs about this, i.e. Their associations? Third: Does the change guarantee the functioning of state sanitary inspectors in each district at the same level, i.e. do you guarantee that this will not result in the extinction and merger of individual inspectors or their departments, such as laboratories? Fourth: How will the role of the district governor change as the person responsible for crisis management and security? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u297	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Urszula Nowogórska, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u298	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Today we are discussing a change in the organizational structure of the State Sanitary Inspection. We are talking about centralisation, we are talking about increasing the coordinating and supervisory role of the state health inspector. I have a question for you. I was elected by the voters in district 14, who have different experiences in this area. I would like to ask whether, in the event of financial difficulties, when structurally the staff of the District Sanitary Inspection will be subject to a voivodship health inspection, it will not happen that these workers will be transferred, scattered to voivodship sanitary and epidemiological stations and will have to commute to work after 100 km and more. I would like this information, to be answered in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u299	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Aleksander Mishalski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u300	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! One of the most important achievements of free Poland has been, so far, the effective decentralization of power and the dedication of its parts to local governments and citizens. On the one hand, you keep talking about the fact that you are fighting the relics of the Polish People's Republic, and on the other hand you are centralizing everything just like the Polish People's Republic. You fight the courts, you fight the third sector, you fight the local governments. This bill is another proof of that. Art. 1 point 9 transforms district stations from budgetary units into voivodship station organisations. Therefore, it deprives them of financial autonomy, so that they will not be able to carry out their tasks effectively. It weakens their decision-making and ability to act actively and can lead to some workers losing their jobs. By contrast, the amendment of the article. 12a paragraph. 3a and 3b deprives local authorities, as has already been said here, of the possibility of applying for action to ensure and remove health safety threats. My question is this: What is the actual intention of your actions? In my opinion, this is unfortunately again the intention, as always, to create new posts for political cast. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u301	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u302	In addition, someone might really ask why we, statesmen, Confederates, do not like the project of systematizing, plotting such important service. Ladies and gentlemen, if everything in the Republic of Poland had not sworn against national freedoms and traditions, we would have been calm. But this service, commonly referred to as the health center, is now showing total temptations toward us. Initiate treatment of parents, while undermining the statistics of unwanted vaccine readings. The same service in conflict of interest is interested in not reporting the increase of this real threat. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's why we're against this project. Let me remind you that the Warsaw ghetto was staged under the pretext of epidemiological threats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u303	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Marcelina Zawisza, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u304	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dietary supplements. Current market worth PLN 4.5 billion, rising at 8% he/she examines seven persons per year in the inspection, who also have other tasks. Seven people across the country. The advertising market has increased since 1997. Twenty times. It is one of the fastest growing industries in the European Union. The current system allows for the placing on the market of a new dietary supplement in the so-called system. notifications, i.e. the manufacturer must only inform the inspection of the composition of the new preparation and may place it on the market. Before the GIS drops, whether the supplement is dangerous to health and life, it takes an average of 2 years. All this time, you can buy it at the pharmacy. In 2017, NIK prepared a report on this issue, how this law solves this problem, how this law solves the problem of low penalties, ridiculously low penalties. The amount of the mandate issued by the health inspector at the time of inspection for such offences as the lack of appropriate medical examinations in food workers, the expired products or dirt amounts to between PLN 100 and PLN 500. How does this bill deal with this problem? [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u305	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u306	Dear Minister, Dear ladies and gentlemen, According to the current law of the district health inspector actually appoints an old-timer - the first point. But point two, Minister, after all, this district health inspector is calling the governor with the consent of the provincial health inspector. Am I wrong? I'm not wrong. And therefore you are removing the last element of self-government in the appointment of the district health inspector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u307	Thank you very much, sir. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Minister Janusz Cieszyński to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u308	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I will answer specifically the questions that were raised during this session: questions and answers. Mr Miller raised doubts about the absence of competitions and pointed out that the district sanitary inspectors would be appointed by the Chief Sanitary Inspector. Dear Member, first of all, the Act in its current state does not contain any regulation that would indicate that it is an obligation to organise a competition. Secondly, the district health inspector, as Mr Szopiński said just now, appoints the governor after obtaining the approval of the voivode. As far as your statements are concerned... But it's different in your bill. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry. The county governor is appointed after obtaining the consent of the voivodship, and in our draft bill the proposal is that he be appointed by the voivodship health inspector. Minister, there's something else you've written down. Read it. I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Janusz Cieszyński: As regards the lack of instruments for local authorities - ladies and gentlemen, this law does not restrict the authorities in any way when they come to health inspection, in no way limits the possibility of indicating that some intervention is necessary. In addition, the health inspector will be obliged, as in previous legislation, to provide adequate information on the situation in the county concerned. Mr Rutka raised the question that, according to the Left Club, it is inappropriate, however, to deprive people who cooperated with communist security and who were agents of this security. Ladies and gentlemen, in all laws of the Government of Law and Justice, such clauses appear. And I hope they show up. As regards Mr Klimczak's doubts about the fact that there is no justification - honourable Member, such justification may be the resolution of the Sanitary and Epidemiological Council, the position of Employers of the Republic of Poland or the position of the Tripartite Group on. Health protection. At least one of these organisations very often makes critical comments on government projects, so it is difficult to think that it is too favourable to us. As regards Mr Latos' question - because it was also raised, Mr Miller pointed out - whether it was possible that there were party nominations in this state. Of course, I'm not the judge of that. He's certainly a very good expert in this field. On the other hand, in 2012 Councilman of the Civic Platform from Lublin was appointed Deputy Director at the district sanitary and epidemiological station. As it turns out, this seems to be fulfilling what Mr Miller said. So it is difficult to point out that these laws in any way deprive us of such doubts. On the other hand, the requirements appear to be clearly shown. We in no way - apart from the issues related to security services - change this in terms of requirements. That's why it doesn't seem like such a problem here. Mrs Czernow asked about the increase in wages. Dear Member, for the first time in many years, health inspection workers have received salary increases, additional wage increases, just under the rule of law and justice. That was this year, Member. For many, many, many years there have been no raises. Mr Hardie-Douglas points out that this is where local governments take these competences. Dear Member, it is worth recalling the situation from your hometown, from Szczecinka, where the position of the district health inspector has not been filled for over a year precisely because the governor was unable to propose a candidate who would meet the expectations of the provincial health inspector. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, the current rules have led to a lack of supervision over a year. As regards Mr Maliszewski's question about excessive repressiveism - ladies and gentlemen, this change finally allows for uniform and the same criteria and interpretations of the rules across Poland. I was talking about it in my explanatory memorandum to the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, not only is the question of how the law is written, but also the question of how it is applied is crucial for the certainty of Polish entrepreneurs doing business. Mrs April asked about savings. As regards financial issues - and I also refer to Mr Klimczak's question - I think there will be a new draft budget law soon. All these issues will be raised there. It is worth saying, however, that here this law also offers new opportunities to make better use of the resources we already have. This law gives the primary health inspector the opportunity to order other district health inspectors to act on the property of another district health inspector. So if we have some massage of activities in one of the counties, we can move these forces and means to provide the best possible solution in a given situation. Mr Klimczak also asked if there would be closure. Ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, the Government of Law and Justice supports all initiatives that lead to our strengthening institutions at this lowest level, e.g. Re-enactment of police stations, support for voluntary firefighters. Also here, I can assure you, there will be no liquidation, resulting from this bill, of district sanitary and epidemiological stations. As far as the role of the old-fashioned crisis management is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, it will in no way change and it is absolutely obvious to everyone that the district health inspector, as so far, will always cooperate with the governor on all issues arising from crisis management. With regard to Mr Mishalski's question, what is the intention, why we have prepared this project, then, honourable Member, everything is indicated in the written justification. I seem to have also raised these points during my speech. The main objective is to harmonise the operation of inspections, to harmonise the functioning of an organisation that employs around 16 000 today. persons, the uniform functioning of an organisation which is responsible for a number of extremely important issues from the point of view of not only the entrepreneur but also the citizen. With regard to Mrs Zawisza's question, how this law affects issues related to dietary supplements, the issues related to dietary supplements are not the subject of this project, and therefore it does not affect in any way, and I think that in the near future we can expect projects that will meet those expectations too. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u309	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u310	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! One of the objectives of the bill is the establishment of a state district health inspector body of a joint government administration in the voivodship. Of course, according to the justification, this is intended to improve the functioning of inspections, including in terms of epidemiological risks and food safety. However, from the point of view of the county authorities, this can be seen as a loss of the powers of the old-timer, for example, about the possibility of setting up a district health inspector, and in addition district stations will lose their autonomy. My question: Will this not reduce the role of these stations, the threat of dismissal of workers, the possibility of district authorities having an impact on sanitary and epidemiological safety in their territory? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u311	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the Act on State Sanitary Inspection, contained in print No. 46, to the Health Committee for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on the State Inspection of Plant Protection and Seeding (Print No 63). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Marcin Romanowski to present the justification for the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u312	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed law will introduce the new regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council governing plant health issues into the Polish legal order, i.e. Regulation 2016/2031 of the European Parliament and of the Council on protective measures against plant pests and Regulation 2017/625 of the European Parliament and of the Council on official controls. Rules cited above. Member States are required to apply the regulations from 14 December 2019. The Law on the State Inspection of Plant Protection and Seed Protection will replace in part the Law of 18 December 2003 on plant protection and will specify the organisation, operating principles and competences of the State Inspection of Plant Protection and Seed Protection, which is primarily responsible for the supervision of plant health, the marketing and use of plant protection products, as well as the production and marketing of plant seed. The proposed law will align the rules for the operation of inspections with the common rules for the implementation of official controls in the food chain resulting from Regulations 2017/625. It shall take into account that, in so far as the area of plant health surveillance and marketing and adaptation of plant protection products has been covered by Regulation 2017/625, the area of supervision of the production and marketing of plant seed remains outside the scope of that Regulation. National solutions will therefore be preserved in the area of seed. It is proposed to change the organisation of inspection laboratories and to transfer their structures from the voivodship structures within the voivodship's joint administration to the chief inspector for plant protection and seed management. This is linked to the EU legislation introduced, the obligation to accreditation of analytical methods since 2022. Changing the organisation of laboratories will reduce the costs of obtaining accreditation from around 58 million to 19.5 million and their maintenance from 27 million to 9 million a year. The proposed law will amend the Law of 9 November 2012 on seeding, the Law of 8 March 2013 on plant protection products, the Act of 25 June 2009 on organic farming and the Act of 12 May 2011 on the manufacture and distribution of wine products, the marketing of these products and the organisation of the wine market to the extent necessary to adapt these legal acts to the regulation of Regulations 2016 and 2017 and to repeal the Law of 18 December 2003 on plant protection. The proposed law sets out the financial consequences of the entry into force of both this law and the parallel plant protection law against pests. These are regulations closely linked to each other. The bill was adopted by the Council of Ministers, but due to the discounting of the Parliament's work it was necessary to re-accept the draft by the Council of Ministers and re-submit it to the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u313	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. It'll only take three minutes. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mr Kazimierz Goloyuch, Law and Justice will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u314	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The proposed law introduces the new regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council governing plant health, i.e. Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). I would like to point out that the area of supervision of the production and marketing of plant seed will be based, as so far, on national solutions. It is proposed to change the organisation of inspection laboratories and to transfer them from the voivodship structures to the chief inspector for plant protection and seed management. The proposed law will amend the Law of 9 November 2012 on seeding, of 8 March 2013 on plant protection products, of 25 June 2009 on organic farming and of 12 May 2011 on the manufacture and distribution of wine products. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I request that the bill be passed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u315	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Dorota Sunday, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u316	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Print Act 63 is a very extensive, very accurate law. It is, in fact, a technical law that contains a lot of details, as the Member, the previous speaker, referred to, and introduces two regulations of the European Parliament into legal order. By introducing these regulations, it also changes the system of the organisation of the State Plant Protection and Seed Protection Inspections and should therefore be considered, as the Minister has already said, including the second law, which will enter into force, i.e. linked to plant diseases. I have a proposal here - I will immediately turn to the government side, but also to the authorities, to the bureau where I am, so that we can proceed together, because these are very extensive technical documents. I'm sure I'm gonna be asking you to create a subcommittee that will take care of these projects, both of them, as very special ones that will require specialists, to take a good look at how these records look in detail. Both laws are almost 600 pages of printing, so the Civic Platform considers that we should accept this for committee work. Platform or Coalition? The Civic Coalition. At the same time, please take into account the work of the subcommittee specifically set up for these two projects immediately. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u317	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek, Left. You don't have an MP? There it is. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u318	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This law is expected by the very staff of plant protection and seed inspection, especially since it should come into force on 14 December. Because the provisions of the EU Regulation have been in force since 14 December. It is once again in this term when the Minister of Agriculture, or I apologise: the Ministry, in the government of Prime Minister Morawiecki, cannot write a bill in time, is unable to hold a debate and to proceed on the bill at a normal rate. Hopefully next year it'll work. Fingers crossed. This law is very important because it concerns de facto food safety, and it also has problems with inspection work or the quality of laboratory work. However, this law does not solve all the problems associated with the work of inspection workers, the work of laboratories or food safety. Because let us be honest that food safety control in Poland is insufficient and exposes Poles to numerous diseases resulting from the use of too large, often illegal plant protection products, antibiotics and non-compliance with withdrawal in their use. The best example of this is recent media reports on residues of glyphosate in groats in Poland. I would like to suggest here that perhaps the functioning of the State Plant Protection and Seed Inspection should be organised differently, e.g. transfer the management of this institution directly to the Prime Minister or the Minister of Health, who may be more concerned with the safety of us, consumers, than with the profit and convenience of food producers. I would like to point out that the fundamental problem of the State Plant Protection and Seed Inspection is the lack of real control in the field of plant protection products. This is due to the lack of supervision at the level of powiats and the establishment of inspectors at the level of voivodships. It is impossible to control hundreds of thousands of agricultural producers from the voivodship level with the current number of inspectors and the impositions on inspection. I would also like to stress that here there is a similar thread as in the previous discussion, i.e. the low remuneration of inspectors - 2400 PLN net is really not big money for a person who must have a higher education, a great knowledge of EU law, be very often a member of the civil service and settle cases concerning hundreds of thousands or millions of people. Inspectors leave, there's no one to replace them, and that's what they say about their working conditions. Saving food safety brings powerful social and financial costs. Unfortunately, you can see that in this bill. Because the approach to food safety is best demonstrated by Article. 69, which reads: if the maximum expenditure limit adopted for the financial year is exceeded or threatened, corrective mechanisms shall be introduced to reduce the cost of laboratory tests or tests, to reduce the cost of laboratory tests or to test the tasks carried out by the inspection. Either we're gonna have an efficient, invested service that cares about our safety, or we're gonna have you out of the box. Because look: we have a phenomenon here that allows for less control, ergo food safety will be less. So again, we need to adopt a law that is written for a quick, which may require longer discussion. We are asking that this law be referred to the agricultural committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u319	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u320	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Maybe this law is not written on the knee, because, as we know, this project has been subject to agreements for several months, while it seems that the time it has been given to us Members to take a closer look at this project to analyse it and, in particular, to analyse the regulations and directives of the European Union which we are implementing in national law is too short. It can be said that this morning we learned that this bill will be proceded, and not long before the project was submitted to the Marshal of the Sejm. However, if this project is, we need to look at it. Of course, I support the idea that it should be addressed by a special subcommittee and to examine what is written in the context of what is required by European Union law, because it often happens that, as a result of the overzealousness of officials, politicians go beyond what the European Union imposes, and there is no need to apply too much repressiveness to those involved in the marketing of seed, plant protection products or food. Despite today's time in the Sejm to discuss this law, it must be stated that the State Inspection of Plant Protection and Seed Protection, to which this Act applies, is of great importance not only for consumers, consumers of final food products, but also for those who produce them. The inspection shall be responsible, inter alia. for supervising the quality of food imports to Poland. We have the right to suppose, and the evidence is immeasurable, that food from many countries in the world, which goes to Poland, is not subjected to such strict checks, rigorous research, which is being carried out by Polish farmers, even if offered in the framework of exports to other countries or internal marketing. This is incomprehensible. We as a club have repeatedly requested, also within the European Union, that the negotiations that are taking place between the European Commission and other countries in the world on the marketing of agricultural products be partnered, so that the European Commission can impose on food producers in other countries the same rigour as those imposed on intra-EU producers, i.e. its farmers. It's not often that way. The law also affects the marketing of seed. It doesn't change much about the existing rules. It also concerns the marketing of plant protection products. This is a very important and interesting task, because, returning to import matters, very often it happens that food in countries that are large suppliers of it to Poland - for example in Ukraine, which has been subject to a highly favoured category for imports into the customs territory of the European Union of food products - is produced using preparations, chemical agents which in Poland and in Europe are not allowed to be used. So this would be where the inspection would be bowing down to do exactly that. Finally, in matters of export of Polish food to the outside, it also has huge tasks, because many countries have requested that products that enter their market be tested qualitatively by inspection. And that is why the words that the Minister has just said cause some concern, because this is being said, and this is a fundamental change in national legislation on inspection activities, that there will be savings in the operation of laboratories and the amount of their funding will be reduced from 27 million if I have heard correctly, to 9 million, so it is a three-time saving. And here is the concern that it will not be done at the expense of a reduction in the number of laboratories, or it will not be done at the expense of their liquidation. Mr Jarosław Rzepa asked him to ask if he would be eliminated, for example. a laboratory in Koszalin, which is extremely important in the field of imports by sea. Will this saving not cause that there will be a danger to the health and safety of Poles because what affects Poland will not be subject to precise control? Finally, the inspection is intended to examine the legality of imported plant protection products and the correctness in this respect. As we know, there's a big gray area here. Many preparations due to cost are imported from Eastern Europe. This is done outside the official market. We do not see any particular activity of PIORiN in controlling these imports. These preparations go to Polish farmers, very often they are used unconsciously and pose a huge threat. So as of today, our club does not see a major problem, greater risks in connection with this project beyond the issue of financing laboratories, and therefore (the bell) we will take a final position after an examination at the meetings of the agricultural committee and a detailed analysis in the subcommittees.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u321	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Michael Urbaniak, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u322	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In general, as we know, this government project adapts the work of the State Plant Protection and Seed Inspection to European Union law. The project details the organisation, the rules of operation of laboratories which carry out the tasks of the state inspection. As we know, laboratories are subject to the Chief Plant Protection and Seed Inspector. Until now, they've also been subject to voivodships. What's changing is about some verticalization, centralization of the work of these labs. We think it can work, improve their work. The applicant also indicated the risks associated with the marketing and use of plant protection products in the justification of the project. Today, the Plant Protection Products Act does not provide for sufficiently effective legal instruments, e.g. in the form of penalties which would eliminate the negative effects of placing on the market or the use of counterfeit certified plant protection products. At the moment, it is possible in principle only to ban an administrative decision, which may simply be ineffective. The change we actually need is not just some implementation of the Brussels elite regulations, but it should respond to the actual needs of farmers. We know that food should be produced responsibly today. We know it should be of the best quality. So changes in food safety are changes for the better. The aim of the revision is also to increase the efficiency of laboratory work, and it is said that it is the reduction of costs. Generally, the Confederation is in favour of reducing the cost of the state, which would also be part of our overall strategy. In principle, we are rather opposed to the force of EU law into Polish law. We believe that we should leave the European Union in general. But now that I'm out of this... We know at this point that this law can be an effective law, it can be a law that will help farmers. Therefore, we would prefer this project to be addressed to the committee so that we can still proceed calmly over it. Because whether we implement it next month or it's gonna take a month, I don't think that's gonna change much about it. We will simply introduce this EU law a little later, and the matter will be sufficiently well discussed. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal of the Sejm Włodzimierz Czarzasty]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u323	Thank you very much for the statements of the clubs and the wheels. Let's move on to asking questions. Do any of the Members of Parliament still want to join the list of questions they are asking? If not, I'm closing the list of people who signed up to ask questions. I'm setting a limit to one minute. And please take the floor of Mr Jarosław Rzepa. Absent. Did it work? It was a debut. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] Mr Jarosław Rzepa is not here. I ask you to ask Mr Kazimierz Goloyuch of the PiS.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u324	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have a very short question. The provisions introducing Union rules have been linked to the obligation to accreditation of analytical methods since 2022. The Minister has already spoken of savings, and I will not repeat it. I just want to ask briefly if it will be possible to move the tests between laboratories if some of them are overcharged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u325	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mrs. Zofia Czernow of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u326	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! When I read the justification for the bill in the financial statement section, then I find that the project promoters have accepted such explanations that this project will not have any financial implications for the state budget. So, spending so far is going to be a source of funding. And it is no secret that the State Inspection of Plant Protection and Seed Protection is already underfunded. There aren't enough employees at all, there's not enough special equipment in the labs, let alone low wages. How to implement a law with EU legislation with such low funding for the functioning of this institution today? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u327	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Jarosław Sachaika, PSL - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u328	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The purpose of functioning and action - this is what we should do within the Polish parliament - is not only to adapt to EU regulations, but also to spend rational public funds. In the last term, at the very beginning, we proposed a law in which we wanted to combine all five inspections. It's about rational spending as part of optimization of the whole system. From field to table - not only within one institute. And now my question is: How would you like to optimize the modest money we have, further within this ossified archaic structure, what is it? But wouldn't it be better to think about e.g. like the FSA, combine everything in one and rationally use all the laboratories and all the means so that we are safe and confident of it (the bell) that when we go to the store, we buy healthy, safe food?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u329	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Maliszewski from PSL - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u330	Mr. Marshal! Minister! A few precise questions right away. If the Minister is unable to answer, I would ask you in writing to refer to what I am asking. First of all, it's about the results of the check. How much control has PIORiN carried out in terms of imported food - from Ukraine but also from other non-EU countries? What were the effects of these controls? How many abnormalities were found? What are the consequences for importers who brought to Poland the wrong quality of food, and what de facto happened to it? The second question concerning the competence of PIORiN is the issue of control of plant protection products, which are used by Polish farmers. I've picked it up in a club talk before. How many cases have been reported of illegal imports of preparations not authorised in Poland, except for official circulation? But also how many checks have been carried out, analyses of the content of the active substance in the preparation in relation to the declared on the label and in the specification of the product? And what were the consequences (the Bell) in this regard, the penalties, the fines imposed on those who committed such an act? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u331	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Romuald Ajchler from the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u332	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Just now my colleague, speaking on behalf of the Left, raised a very important subject, and this was repeated in the speech of many, many speakers. I wanted to ask this question and clarify this issue, because it is no secret to anyone that all inspections, particularly those in agriculture, and especially those employed in them, have very low wages. Many speakers have spoken about these issues. Now the question is whether, by amending the bill, you will take advantage of the opportunity to promote these inspectors, those who will remain in the inspection, or whether you intend to actually save. Because if you're gonna save money on food protection, we don't have our permission to do it all this way. The conditions for those working there need to be improved. And one more thing, but that's it, Minister, on the next speech, because it's about combining all the inspections into one. I remember, a few years back, many ministers broke their teeth and gave it up. Today, Mr Kukiz15 has just arrived. [[♪ The bell ♪]] He also mentioned it. Are you going to go back to the subject that was raised four years ago?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u333	Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, the list of MEPs has been exhausted. I kindly ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Rafał Romanowski to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u334	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't know, I think the honourable Members didn't necessarily understand the intentions of the designers, the intentions of the government when it comes to this bill. Let us remember one basic thing, this bill is a draft law that is typically competent, i.e. resulting from the regulations of the European Union, two regulations that we should introduce by 14 December this year. I reply to Mrs Daria Gosek-Polish saying that the bill is prepared on the knee. In my speech presenting this bill, I made it clear that it was prepared and adopted by the Government of the Republic of Poland and directed to work in the previous term. In view of the principle of discounting, we simply had to once again submit it to the government, once again we have submitted this proposal to the High House and we are proceeding on this project right now. The Member has made it clear that the number of checks is falling. I merely wish to assure you that, as far as the number of checks and appropriate measures is concerned, more than 25 000 inspections were carried out in the Republic of Poland in 2018, and the level of officers who carry out these checks is as appropriate as possible. Let us remember one basic thing, that in the draft of this law there is no mention of any liquidation of any laboratory in our country. Nothing like that ever shows up there. It's a typical competence bill. What's with the savings? These are not savings on the State Plant Protection and Seed Protection Inspection, these are savings on accreditation. If we accredit each laboratory in our country in a separate manner, such accreditation would cost more than PLN 54 million. If it's... But... raises... ...in a sense, this accreditation, my dear country, will be much cheaper, and above all individual laboratories will receive specific competences, a specific range of activities and according to this range of activities will be able to perform specific tasks. There are no rotations here, no liquidations, on the contrary. Mrs Czernow raises the question of the remuneration of individual employees of individual state institutions at every subsequent law. Let us remember one basic thing, that it was the Government of Law and Justice in 2018 that allocated an additional 500 PLN for each job in the State Plant Protection and Seed Protection Inspection. In 2019 from 1 August each post in the State Plant Protection and Seed Inspection is a concrete increase by another 500 PLN. So in the last two years, every job is $1,000. gross additional salary for the inspector of the State Plant Protection and Seed Protection Inspection, i.e. this scope and these increases in these inspections are applicable. It's an ossified structure. We are talking clearly about the legislation on competence, accreditation, systematisation in accordance with EU legislation. We want to be an exporter of our food all over the world, we want to adopt specific standards, and this competence law provides for such standards. So that by so-called. external customers will be very clearly read as implementing specific EU rules. We will guarantee that our food exported to more than 70 countries around the world for more than EUR 30 billion in these markets will be in good quality. We are not talking, once again, about any savings on the institution itself, the State Plant Protection and Seed Protection Inspection. These are savings resulting from specific processes implementing these two EU directives. Number of checks. Mr Maliszewski misjudged inspections, because this is about the State Inspection of Plant Protection and Seed Protection. We are not talking about the Chief Commercial Quality Inspector of Agricultural and Food Articles. And these are two different inspections. But, of course, we will respond in detail to this. So, above all, these rules will give us great credibility when it comes not only to partners within the European Union but also to global partners. It is important that these rules can be introduced as soon as possible and systematised definitely earlier, as these directives provide for, that these laboratories should receive these accreditations, that is the requirement, from 2022. We want to move forward and by amending this law, the system law introduce competences for individual laboratories in our country, so that this credibility is definitely higher. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u335	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer the government draft law on the State Inspection of Plant Protection and Seed Protection, contained in print No 63, to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. On the basis of the article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Marshals of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the committee's report by 21 January 2020. We proceed with the examination of item 22. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft plant protection law against pests (print No 62). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Rafał Romanowski to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u336	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed law will introduce the new regulations of the European Parliament governing plant health issues into the Polish legal order, i.e. Regulation 2016 referred to in the earlier draft and Regulation 2017/625 of the European Parliament and of the Council on official controls. Rules cited above. Member States are required to apply the regulations from 14 December this year. The primary objective of plant health legislation is to reduce the risk of introduction into the territory of countries of new organisms harmful to plants which may cause significant losses in forest crops, which can be encouraged inter alia. intensify international trade and climate change observed and eliminate outbreaks of such organisms. The adoption of these provisions is also part of a system allowing international trade in vegetable goods. The proposed law will replace the current plant protection law of 18 December 2003. This law will, in particular, be a competence law indicating the bodies of the organisations responsible for the implementation of the provisions of the above-mentioned law. Union regulations. It will also include a solution not covered by European Union legislation concerning exports to third countries of goods subject to additional phytosanitary requirements, a requirement of origin from the production sites of areas free of specified pests or registered production sites. In this respect, the proposed law implements the provisions of international standards issued under the International Plant Protection Convention and the requirements of third countries to which goods from Poland are exported. The requirement to enter a register of exporters arises inter alia. from the protocol on phytosanitary requirements for the export of apples from Poland to China. It is proposed that plant health tasks should so far be carried out by the State Plant Protection and Seed Protection Inspection. The authority which will carry out checks on compliance with the requirements of Regulation 2016/2031, as well as on the presence of pests, will be the Provincial Plant Protection and Seed Inspector. The provincial inspector will also issue administrative decisions in the event of the presence of quarantine pests or other pests subject to an obligation to control. The Provincial Inspector will also be competent to keep an official register of professional entities, which will replace the register of economic operators based on the provisions of the Plant Protection Act of 18 December 2003. The Provincial inspector will also issue phytosanitary export certificates and phytosanitary re-export certificates for goods dispatched to third countries. Under the proposed law, the Provincial Inspector will have the competence to issue plant passports which, in accordance with the provisions of Regulation 2016 will in principle be issued by professional entities. In turn, the Chief Plant Protection and Seed Inspector will issue consent to carry out research work using quarantine pests or other pests covered by Regulation 2016. This constitutes a continuation of the powers conferred on the Chief Inspector by the provisions of the Act in force. The new solution introduced by the proposed law is the possibility to designate areas free from specified pests. These areas may be relevant for facilitating exports of goods to third countries. It is proposed that an area free from a specific pest should be established by means of an act of local law of the voivode. The proposed law is amended by the Act of 16 November 2006 on the tax charge and the Act of 6 March 2018. These amendments are of an order nature resulting from the repeal of the Plant Protection Act of 18 December 2003 and adapting to the rules of controls resulting from the EU rules introduced. The draft law was adopted by the Council of Ministers with a Memorandum of Understanding from the meetings of the Council of Ministers of October 2019 and addressed to the Sejm. However, due to the principle of discounting work, it was necessary for the Council of Ministers to re-accept this proposal and submit it to the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u337	Thank you, Minister, for the extremely smooth presentation of the project. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I invite Mr Jerzy Małecki from PiS.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u338	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present a statement concerning the government's draft plant protection law against pests, print No 62. The aim of the proposed legal solutions is to introduce into the national order the provisions of Regulation (EC) No 2016 of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe and Regulation (EC) No 2017/ 625. These are two regulations, which were also mentioned in the previously approved law. The proposed provisions are also intended to partially replace the existing Plant Protection Act of 18 December 2003. They provide for the regulation of the organisation and functioning of the State Plant and Seed Protection Inspection in a separate Act on the State Plant and Seed Protection Inspection. Regulation 2016/2031, which the drafter wishes to introduce into the national legal order, responds to the new challenges and threats to the phytosanitary safety of the European Union which have arisen since the adoption of the repeatedly amended Council Directive 2000/29/EC of 8 May 2000 on protective measures against the introduction into the Community of organisms harmful to plants or plant products and against their spread within the Community more than 10 years ago. The EU rules so far have defined a narrow list of goods prohibited from entering the European Union and goods whose introduction into the Union involved special requirements for phytosanitary safety and the possession of a phytosanitary certificate. Other goods could be imported without restrictions. In practice, this caused the community to be exposed to phytosanitary risks associated with imports of the so-called. new goods which have not previously been imported. In the case of such commodities, possible additional phytosanitary measures were taken only after several times the quarantine organisms had been found to be infected with those commodities. Regulation 2016/2031 also makes more specific provisions for protected zones established in the European Union with regard to certain pests. It harmonises the rules on the issue of plant passports by individual Member States and allows for a better prioritising of the European Union's phytosanitary safety objectives. In turn, Regulation 2017/625, which is to be introduced into the Polish legal order, sets out a common framework for all controls carried out in the food chain, including rules for carrying out checks, sources of financing, cooperation between Member States in this field, the adoption of conditions to be met by goods introduced into the territory of the European Union from a third country and the establishment of a computer information system for the management of information and data in relation to official control. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Protection against pests is important for both the economy and the environment. The fight against new pathogens requires additional protective measures, which increases production costs. The emergence of new pathogens adversely affect may also export our agricultural fetuses. These risks require action, including legal action, to reduce existing risks. In view of the above, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice welcomes the proposal for a plant protection law against pests presented and advocates that it be directed to further proceding. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u339	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Kazimierz Plocke from the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u340	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The draft Plant Protection Act aims to introduce into the Polish legal order the provisions contained in two new regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council: on protective measures against pests and on official controls. It is worth remembering - and this is also due to the justification of the draft law - that Member States were obliged to implement the provisions of the regulations cited from 14 December 2019. The primary objective of plant health legislation is to reduce the risk of introduction into the country of new organisms harmful to plants which may cause significant losses in agricultural or forestry crops. Climate change, increased international trade or the elimination of pest outbreaks may be the main objective of this process. The adoption of these provisions is an important element of the system that enables international trade in vegetable goods. The proposed law will replace the Plant Protection Act which has been in force since 18 December 2003. I would also like to point out that Draft Print Law No 62 indicates the authorities of the state administration which will be responsible for the implementation and implementation of the provisions contained in the regulations of the European Union. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! At this stage of the process, the Civic Platform - Coalition Club does not comment and proposes to direct this project to further work in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u341	I thank the Member for his very good speech. I invite Mr Romuald Ajchler from the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u342	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! The bill we are debating today is, contrary to appearances, very important. She can also decide in the perspective whether our country will be able to export plant production, including other plants. I do not mention what is mentioned in the justification of the project, i.e. that this law is to defend against the import of various pathogens related not only to food production, but also to diseases or pests that can occur in forests: from coniferous forests to deciduous forests. And that's a very big threat. We should now consider what is the result of this threat that we are talking about in these laws and which are to defend us indirectly. Is it not the result of climate change? If that's the case, this is where the prospect of a dozen years bows down. Recent decisions that have been taken during work within the European Commission also concern climate improvement in Poland, among others. It's about limiting smog, it's about big resources. High Izbo! The Plant Protection Act is also to be consistent with European Union legislation, such as the one that we have also just debated. And the Left Club was wondering about one thing. Since this is such an important law, because it is also implementing directives, European Union rules, it would be useful to refer it also to the environmental committee. These two joint committees could create a subcommittee that would draw up both draft laws. This is not the case, because the first law on seeding was directed only to the agricultural commission. And it would be better to refer them to both committees because we would have a wider view. Many Members specialize in agricultural production, many Members also in environmental protection, they are in contact with the risks I have just mentioned. Since we should debate this law and the Marshal of the Sejm has already set the time for the report, I do not know whether what the Left has proposed would be possible. And that is what I am considering for Mr Marshal, because it would be worth expanding the number of Members working to make sure that our documents that come out of here are not only verified in terms of substantive records, but also... And here we also have doubts that it is not too easy for us to say that the rules must comply with European Union rules. At times, there are many, many surprises that we have seen in the past. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Left does not make any comments at this stage. We know that we are aware that we need to debate these two legislative proposals together so that they can enter into force as soon as possible. But what I'm wondering is what we said in the previous bill. You're saving a lot of money on the seed bill. I'm not saying what they'd be for, where these savings come from, but isn't it worth paying attention to better reward inspection or inspection workers, improving their conditions? Because it doesn't convince me completely, Minister, what you said once you gave 500 zlotys, the second time you gave 500 zlotys, that's $1,000 in total. zł. I would like to know how much, in fact, this professional group that we require work and great diligence from, on average, earns. How much does an inspector make on average who does all these things? I request that this bill be further carried out and directed to work in committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u343	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Zbigniew Ziejewski, PSL - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u344	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Print No 62 of the Plant Protection Act against pests. It provides solutions that calculate the risk of being dragged into Poland so-called. new pests: viruses, fungi, bacteria, and other pests that attack plants. The amendment of the rules adapts the Polish law to the regulations of the European Union. Protection of plants against pests is important for both the Polish economy and the environment. The agrophages not only destroy the crops, but also cause huge losses in the trees. Their fight requires additional chemical protection, as well as quarantine operations, which significantly increases production costs. The introduction of new pests in Poland may have a negative impact on the export of agricultural products. The recent potato attack bacteria in Poland, which significantly restricts their exports to the European Union, Africa or the Middle East, can serve as an example. New pests have been reported in Europe in recent decades, which justifies strengthening the existing import rules. An example is a new bacteria that threatens more than 300 species of plants. It will most often be affected by such species, which are of outstanding economic importance for Poland, namely: vine, peach, domestic plum, cherry or cherry. The most important solutions, i.e. plant health-related tasks will be carried out, as has been the case since, by the State Plant Protection and Seed Protection Inspection. The authority which will carry out checks on compliance with the requirements of the Union Regulation, as well as on the presence of pests, will be the Provincial Plant Protection and Seed Inspector. The Provincial Inspector will also issue administrative decisions, as is currently the case in the case of the so-called. quarantine pests or other pests subject to the control obligation. New developments will be the possibility of establishing free areas from specific pests, which should facilitate the export of goods to third countries and in particular countries outside the Union. A specific pest-free area will be established by a voivode, restrictions or orders in force in such an area, but will result from a regulation by the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development. Discussion of the consultations carried out. This project was sent to the public for consultation and opinion. 87 socio-professional organisations were acquainted with this project. Unfortunately, only four of these organisations did not submit any comments to the project, while four others submitted comments. They were: the Polish Seed Chamber, the Association of Polish Schoolers, the Institute of Plant Protection. The comments submitted by them were taken into account and discussed at an organised conference. That's why, Mr. Marshal, I'd like to ask you to continue the project in committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u345	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Michael Urbaniak from the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u346	Dear High Izbo! The government proposal for a plant protection law against pests introduces new solutions in the form of the designation of areas free from specified pests. Undoubtedly, the designation of such areas may be important to facilitate the export of goods to third countries. I am talking, above all, about countries outside the European Union. This should be the task of the Polish government - developing solutions that will allow for diversification of exports. It is primarily about exports outside the European Union. It is proposed that an area free from a particular pest should be established by means of a regulation of the voivode, while defining restrictions or orders in force in such an area in order to reduce the risk of introduction of the pest and in view of the area which has been designated. We think it's rational. We're pretty positive about that. The existing rules governing the import of products of plant origin into the European Union also need to be amended. This is worth paying attention to. Poland should be an active party due to increased imports from Ukraine. The EU rules so far have, in principle, been among the most liberal in this area in the world. I will say that there is a relatively narrow number of goods whose entry into the European Union was prohibited at all, as well as goods which, in the case of imports, had to comply with and be accompanied by a certificate of such safety. Imports of other goods were not subject to any restrictions, which is unwise in our view. This also caused that the European Union and, above all, Poland - we are talking mainly about Poland and this should be an area of our interest - were exposed to phytosanitary risks and risks related to the import of goods of unknown origin, which were the subject of import. The proposed solution should actually make an important contribution to increasing security, and we are therefore in favour of continuing to proceed on this project in committees. We consider these solutions to be rational. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u347	Thank you very much. We're starting to ask questions. Members: Jarosław Rzepa, Romuald Ajchler, Mirosław Maliszewski, Jarosław Sachajko were asked the question. Are there any other Members who would like to ask a question? If not, I'm closing the list of people who will be asking questions. I'm setting a time limit for one minute. I cordially invite Mr Jarosław Rzepa from PSL - Kukiz15. Absent, Mr. Marshal. If he is absent, please take the floor of my friend Romuald Ajchler, an extremely active Member of the Left today. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u348	Thank you very much, Marshal. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate you on your debut. [[Applause]] Congratulations to the marshal very warmly. I think that the entire Left and the entire High House will also join these congratulations. Thank you, sir. Maybe someday I'll be as prominent as you. There you go. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to ask you a question. If we hadn't gone that way, which is the law, and we did what the Confederation suggested... If I understood correctly, it is best that we do not belong to the European Union and do not adopt this law, because then we would have had our own legislation. How would it translate into export, to farmers' income (the bell), as well as to the functioning of Polish agriculture where these laws would not appear?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u349	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Maliszewski from PSL - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u350	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I agree with the opinions that have so far been said that this is a very important law. Again, despite how late we're working on it. She's touching exports and imports. In the case of exports, it concerns pests, diseases that do not occur in the countries of destination - where Polish products go - and those countries make certain requirements regarding absence in exported material, but this also applies to imports to Poland. That's what my question's gonna be. Does this only apply to imports from countries outside the Union? Are there rules that this law regulates - more existing EU rules - that concern re-exports or exports, trade within the European Union? The climate has changed and today very often pests that did not exist in Poland, because they were destroyed by winter, are present today and are often dragged down with propagating material from countries in South Europe. I could point out a few pests like that. drosophila suzukii or recently thyroid. Is there any security that will cause (the bell) that we will not release into Poland material that comes from other countries of the European Union where such dangerous pests occur?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u351	Thank you very much. I would kindly ask Mr Jarosław Sachaika from PSL - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u352	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The bill we're investigating is a very important law. It is very often underestimated, but it is intended to protect Polish agriculture from total destruction. I would like to ask the Minister what new pests have recently appeared in the territory of the Republic of Poland. In the world, the damage caused by pests amounts to around 35% crops. I would like to ask, what losses are currently incurred due to pests in Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u353	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Rafał Romanowski to respond and speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u354	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Sachaiko! Allow us to reply in writing because I don't want to calculate. I have been familiar with the Asian ladybug and the comedian's charade recently, but the detailed explanations, if you will excuse me, will be made in writing. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I really tried very honestly and consistently to present this bill. Some questions are repeated. Let us remember, once again, that the savings resulting from the previous act, namely accreditation, are not transferred to any other budgetary action. These measures remain within the budget of the State Plant Protection and Seed Inspections. Simply by obtaining specific accreditation, joint accreditation, it will be much easier for us, firstly, to act and secondly, there will be very specific savings on accreditation and inspection activities themselves. I hope these doubts have been resolved. Let us also remember one basic thing: we are within the European Union, we are in the internal market. This law concerns this internal market and, of course, the external market. In the internal market, we use passports, and in the external market we use plant certificates. These powers don't change anything here. Of course, we have so far had national legislation, which has secured it in a smaller or more way, in my opinion in an effective way, when it comes to importing and exporting our food or our plants into markets, and those intra-EU markets, and those third markets. This competence law gives us just, once again, credibility on world markets. We are talking about the internal market, the EU market, but we are also talking about the external market. Of course, we can talk about these climate threats, about the fact that these pests, these pathogens, can come from third countries, from outside the Union, from different continents. That is why we want to implement, in preparation for this, those EU rules that will allow us to effectively operate the State Plant Protection and Seed Protection Inspection. It's about preventing this kind of situation. There have been many references to regionalisation here. The European Union's domain is to recognise regionalisation free of any threat, whether due to pests or pathogens, or even from contagious diseases that are combated from the public. The European Commission is very actively involved in the recognition of such regionalisation for particular regions which are free from such pests or pathogens. The fact that we in national legislation will implement these rules and allow the voivode to issue a specific decision defining the area free of specific pathogens or pests will allow us to increase our credibility. Laws, and one, and the other, as I mentioned earlier, are very connected. I hope that the High House will adopt these projects as soon as possible, and we will be able to implement these projects by taking this step forward, ahead of certain EU objectives and deadlines for each task. For example, since 2022, we want to be prepared, firstly, and secondly, we want to introduce this type of legislation much faster. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u355	Thank you, Minister. Honey for my heart, four minutes, great. Thanks for the answer. Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer the draft law on plant protection against pests to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. At the same time, the Marshal of the Sejm, based on the article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the report by the committee by 21 January 2020. We proceed with the examination of item 12. of the agenda: First reading of the citizens' draft law on the establishment of the Medical University. Louis Rydygier in Bydgoszcz (print 30). I ask the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee of Mr Zbigniew Pawłowicz to present the justification for the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u356	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo! I have the honour to represent before the High Chamber the Civic Committee of the Legislative Initiative Act on the creation of the Medical University of them. Louis Rydygier in Bydgoszcz. I would like to thank the inhabitants of Bydgoszcz and the Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship, as well as the whole country, who have taken part in the citizens' initiative and signed their support. A meeting of over 160,000. signatures within 3 months are a great value for Bydgoszcz and an expression of public confidence in the effectiveness of the citizens' initiative. It confirms that the rank of medical university in our city is very important for its residents, who strongly identify themselves with the need to create a medical university and expect a positive decision. On behalf of the signatories of the civil project, I would like to raise the fundamental question: Why by political decision in 2004, on the 20th anniversary of the thriving Medical Academy of them. Ludwik Rydygier in Bydgoszcz, was wound up without public consultation and incorporated into a university in another city that had no experience in medical training and management of a medical university? The past few years have shown that it was a missed decision. It did not bring any added value and reduced the level of training of doctors in Bydgoszcz. The citizens' initiative on this issue confirms that the current status of a medical university in Bydgoszcz, managed from Torun, is not effective and is not accepted by citizens. In 2004, after 20 years of activity, at the Medical Academy. Ludwik Rydygier was educated in Bydgoszcz by 3721 students, more than in medical universities in Łódź, Szczecin, Białystok and Gdańsk. And its potential was 115 scientific and educational units, of which 44 at the Faculty of Medicine, 23 at the Faculty of Pharmacy, 42 at the Faculty of Health Sciences and six interdepartmental and general universities. 551 academic teachers were employed, including 113 independent academics, 26 ordinary professors, 65 extraordinary professors and 21 habilitation doctors. The doctor's degree had 244 academic teachers. Why Bydgoszcz, the largest city of the voivodship and the eighth in the country, with about 360 thousand. The population, is deprived of the ability to create and implement its own strategy for the development of the public medical university, existing on its territory, created and organized by the efforts of the inhabitants and local government? The merger was not a natural solution resulting from the everyday life of both universities, their mutual cooperation and rational reasons. It is difficult to define the connection of the Medical Academy in Bydgoszcz with the Nicolaus Copernicus University in Toruń, in cities with different historical conditions, several dozen kilometers apart and until 1999 located in different voivodships. It should be emphasized that already at that time the City Council of Bydgoszcz and its inhabitants protested. The arguments that were quoted at the time, as it turned out, were of dubious value for the further development of academic medicine in Bydgoszcz. And life has shown that they have become negative arguments. High Seym! The remaining nine medical academies developed into medical universities in 2007 and 2012 and operate themselves very well in terms of organizational, scientific and teaching and fully cooperate with the local authorities of the cities in which they are located. None of these medical universities intend to connect with another university, even though they are located in their cities. The next Rector's authorities promised great benefits to the Collegium Medicum. But despite these announcements, the development and position of the Collegium Medicum and its courses of education against the background of the other nine medical academy, transformed into medical universities, are far from the expectations of the academic community of Bydgoszcz. For many years the magazine has been leading a reliable ranking of universities in Poland. In this ranking for 2019 UMK in Toruń is listed on the 15th place. This is a decrease of four items compared to the previous year. Three medical universities reached a higher position: in Gdańsk, Poznań and Wrocław. On the other hand, the College Medicum UMK with an indicator of 30.4 takes place in the eighth ten universities in Poland. Over the last 5 years, this ratio has fallen by 50% as it was over 65% in 2014. The results of the College Medicum UMK are even worse in the ranking of courses of study. Faculty of Medicine - the penultimate 16th place, Faculty of Pharmacy - the penultimate 10th place. Direction Nursing - 12th place on 14 classified, obstetrics - 13th, last, medical analyst - the last 11th, physiotherapy - 17th place on 22nd university, dietary course - 11th, penultimate. According to the above data, despite the inclusion of the Bydgoszcz University in the University of Toruń, it is not one of the leaders of the rankings of universities in Poland, but in recent years its ratings have deteriorated significantly. The level of education and lack of development of the Collegium Medicum in Bydgoszcz is constantly and continuously reduced. The rector authorities of the University of Toruń do not take action to prevent this. E.g. do not invest in the Bydgoszcz part, do not go to the Ministry of Health to increase the basic grant per student to the level of medical universities, in order to change the negative level of funding for medical training at the College Medicum. The distance of cities and other characteristics of the Toruń part as a university and the Bydgoszcz part as a medical university are real reasons for their lack of integration. The students of the College Medicum are practically not taking advantage of the opportunities offered in Toruń - facilities, classes, academic circles, university lectures - because of the distance and the well-filled program of studies. The authorities of the UMK use the achievements and intellectual potential of the College Medicum as a sign for applications for grants and grants, while their implementation takes place only in Toruń. And they're presented as investments in the Bydgoszcz University. E.g. An example of such an action is the participation of the University of Science and Higher Education in the competition - a research university, announced by the Ministry of Science and Higher Education. The Nicolaus Copernicus University in Toruń was ranked ninth, and was founded from the medical academy in 2009, 10 years ago, the Gdańsk Medical University gained a higher score and took seventh place. 10 universities have been selected in this competition, which will receive a 10% increase in subsidies in the years 2020 and 2026. This will help to improve the quality of research and teaching and improve opportunities in international competition. According to the competition materials presented by the authorities of the University of Poland, Bydgoszcz as the largest city in the region with its academic potential is treated as a threat and not as a partner for cooperation. All competition documents do not mention the Collegium Medicum in Bydgoszcz. These facts indicate that any increased funding will only be used for part of the University of Toruń. Most administrative solutions are prepared for the needs of the University of Nicholas Copernicus, and the cases of Collegium Medicum are considered secondary and are sometimes not taken into account at all. Before the merger, the medical academy was a Bydgoszcz university, not a Toruń university, and identified with the city and the city with the university. The university should be part of the education policy and development strategy of the city in which it is located. The current situation causes Toruń not to identify itself with the Collegium Medicum located in Bydgoszcz, and the Bydgoszcz authorities have limited opportunities to support their non-university. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The current potential of the Collegium Medicum in Bydgoszcz meets the criteria for the establishment of a medical university, which are three departments: medical, pharmaceutical and health sciences, 15 courses of studies at first and second degrees and single master's degrees. The university also performs English language studies in the medical field. It has six doctoral privileges and five habilitating powers. The citizens' bill in the High House concerns a very important problem for all of us, namely the training of medical personnel. The organisation and quality of training for doctors, nurses and other health professionals determines the level of health of the population in an important way. The creation of an independent, tenth in the country, Medical University of Bydgoszcz meets these needs and is in line with the health minister's strategy regarding the need to increase the number of medical students in the coming years. The medical universities developed from the academy have shown that they are leading academic centres for the training of doctors and broadly understood medical staff and for the development of scientific research and the introduction of innovative medical technologies into clinical practice. The Medical University of Bydgoszcz will offer the opportunity to adopt modern organizational solutions, planned and expected in higher medical education in the country. The dualism of the Minister of Health and the Minister of Science and Higher Education will be abolished. The Minister of Health will have legal tools for direct supervision of the achievement of teaching and scientific objectives in connection with two clinical hospitals in Bydgoszcz, and the established medical university will create better quality and organisational conditions for increasing the number of students in medical training. It is important to stress the separation of medical universities in the higher education system, namely that they carry out teaching and research tasks in conjunction with prevention and promotion of health and the provision of health services provided by clinical hospitals for which they are the body for which they form. The director of clinical hospitals must work closely with the medical university in the field of teaching and research. The hospital will perform these tasks better if the director of the clinical hospital is subject to the rector of the medical university, which as a doctor is fully competent to carry out not only ownership supervision but also substantive supervision. The decision-making process will be shortened, decisions will be taken more quickly, as they will take place on the spot, in an autonomous university, with an understanding of the specifics of medical matters for the benefit of students and patients and the need to build positive relations with other medical institutions in the country. There will be new opportunities for developing medical training, workers will better identify with the medical university and its authorities located in their own city. The level of integration of the medical environment and involvement in promoting cities will significantly increase. The establishment of the Medical University in Bydgoszcz will help to calm the emotions and end disputes about belonging to the Collegium Medicum to Bydgoszcz or Torun, which will improve relations between the two neighbouring cities. [[Applause]] One of the most important sources of these conflicts will disappear and the natural situation associated with the location of medical universities will be restored. High Seym! The authorities of the Nicolaus Copernicus University in Toruń in public speeches have repeatedly raised a plea of non-compliance with the constitution of the High Chamber's draft law contained in print no. 30. It is alleged that the project violates the autonomy of the university. I would like to quote the opinion of recognised legal authorities and constitutionalists in order to clarify these doubts. Mr. Professor. Piotr Winczorek in a commentary on the Constitution of the Republic of Poland states: The autonomy of universities consists of considerable independence in establishing itself in all areas of... Mr. Marshal... We're on our way to the end. I'm on my way to the end. It's so fast. ...your actions, within the limits of the laws. Such a specific position of higher education is not an objective in itself, but it serves the quality of research and the best transfer of knowledge. I would also like to stress that this provision confirms the Law of 20 July 2018. The Law on Higher Education and Science, which Article. Point 9 (2) specifies that the institution is autonomous under the rules laid down in the Act. The following articles of the cited Act define the tasks of the university, the organisation and the scope of the activity, but we do not find any provisions that stress the autonomy of the university beyond the scope specified in the Law on Higher Education and Science. And thank you very slowly, sir. Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the Civil Committee of the Legislative Initiative, I would like to move and ask the High House to submit a bill for further proceedings. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u357	I would like to thank the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mr Sławomir Skwarek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u358	Dear Marshal Debut! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! There's a debutante in front of you, too. You're a debutante too? Yes. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the citizens' draft Law No 30 on the establishment of the Medical University of them. Louis Rydygier in Bydgoszcz. I have a rather difficult task ahead of me. I am not related to any of these cities: Bydgoszcz or Torun, so keenly interested in this project. Welcome to Bydgoszcz. I'm not involved in the scientific or medical community either. So I'm going to try to look at the subject of our discussion with other eyes. Although you can go deep into the history of medical sciences in Bydgoszcz, I will only focus on the fate of the bill in parliament. The citizens' project entered the Sejm on 7 January 2016, i.e. during the previous, 8th term, and was included in print No 226. The 15th meeting of the High House on 1 April 2016 held its first reading on the 22nd agenda. As today, in addition to the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee, which has made very broad arguments in favour of the adoption of the law, which is obvious, 24 Members have spoken in the debate. At the next 16th meeting, the High Chamber's decision referred the proposal to further work in committees. A joint meeting of the Education, Science and Youth Committee and the Health Committee took place on 20 November 2018. It is worth reading - it contains as many as 18 pages. The discussion was substantive - there were arguments for and against - but it was also extremely emotional. It is worth looking at the arguments of both supporters and opponents of the law. As a result of the vote, with 21 votes in favour, 18 against and 2 abstentions, the committees recommended that the High House reject the bill, print No 3018, but in connection with the failure to complete the legislative procedure during the 8th term of office, the citizens' draft law returned to the High House like a proverbial boomerang and on 22 November this year. was directed to first reading. We have to face him in this, uh, 9th term. I am convinced that we will make this journey to the end of the vote this time. To sum up, firstly, our club, Law and Justice, always has great respect for all citizens' initiatives, in this case - to the local initiative, which is extremely important for Bydgoszcz. A meeting of 160,000. Signatures under the bill show great determination of residents. I can say that blindly, without analysis of sources, regardless of political views. Secondly, I do not know whether there will be any other new arguments for and against, but it should be carefully listened to and resolved in the final vote. We still have a fundamental question as to whether it is better to maintain the status quo or build on the old foundations, in the new formula of the new university, or, as some say, to combine by sharing. Or maybe this time during the discussion there will be a new idea, good for universities, cities, regions, good especially for citizens, going further - for their health. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice we recommend that the citizens' draft law on the establishment of the Medical University in Bydgoszcz lean together: the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Health. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u359	Thank you very much, sir. The debuts like to be praised. As far as I'm concerned, you were fantastic. Thank you very much. Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u360	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! Despite the late season, as you can see, there is a certain interest in this subject, because it is indeed an important subject. First of all, I would like to express very much respect for all those who have collected these signatures and signed up for this project. The Assembly of 160,000. signatures means that even if part of the population of the entire voivodship is included, probably every third of the inhabitants of Bydgoszcz decided that they wanted to sign and support this idea. This is very important. This is an element that should inspire our respect. That is why we should lean on this project with special care and special consideration. Ladies and gentlemen, this project has one more meaning. At this moment we feel more than ever how much of a crisis we have when it comes to the absence of doctors and nurses in Poland. We see that we are in one category in the penultimate category, in the second category in the last place in the European Union. This means that the issue of training young doctors, the question of training people who want to be doctors in the future, is one of the most important problems we all face - from left to right. Free education. Therefore, we must also consider very seriously the problem of the medical university in Bydgoszcz. or the transformation of Collegium Medicum, which is now part of Nicolaus Copernicus University in Toruń into a new medical university. And here we have to take into account a few elements that are important and which decide what position we should take. First of all, notice - this has happened today - that Nicolaus Copernicus University is indeed one of ten universities in Poland, which have gained the name of research university, research university. What does that mean? This means that in Poland at all, when it comes to universities... Let us remind you that if we look at all rankings, our best universities are in the fourth hundred universities, sorry, in the fifth hundred world universities. This means that if we have an institution that has a research work, we should pay particular attention to this work, to all that has been built, not to spoil it. That's one thing. Second line. The project proposes to create a Medical University only from Collegium Medicum, which is in Bydgoszcz, while in Bydgoszcz there are two other universities, there is the University of Technology and Nature and there is the University of Kazimierz the Great. Of course, there are other universities, I mean universities. What does that mean? This means that if we were to think about creating a stronger higher education institution of both research and teaching nature, it would be worth thinking about creating a university from all these three units, namely from both the College of Medicum, the University of Technology and Nature, and the University of Kazimierz the Great. That's not what this project is about. If we wanted to adopt such a solution, we would have to lean on it at the meeting of the Joint Education Committee and the Health Committee. Let's remember one thing. If we want to do something, we need to do it in such a way that, first of all, we do not destroy the research potential that we have, but secondly, so that we may expand the offer for future medical students, so that we increase the number of doctors' training. And here's another interesting information we should consider. In the future, the hospital is to open in Toruń after the renovation, after the changes, which could happen in the future, for example. a clinical hospital. And now the question is, should this be a clinical hospital to which students from the College Medicum in Bydgoszcz will come, or maybe after the merger. open a medical department at the Nicolaus Copernicus University? As we can see, the subject is not political in nature, it is substantive in nature and should therefore be the subject of a conversation with employees of the Nicolaus Copernicus University, employees of the Collegium Medicum, as well as employees of other medical universities, other universities in Bydgoszcz. But also with the participation of local governments from Bydgoszcz, local authorities from Toruń, as well as representatives of the Sejm, representatives of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship. Therefore, on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I propose that this project actually be the subject of a serious debate in the joint committees, the Committee on Health and the Committee on Education, Science and Youth. At the same time, I must say that it is so much easier for me that, like the PiS representative, I am neither from Bydgoszcz nor from Torun, I am from Łódź. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, I think we can look at this more objectively without looking at whose business we are doing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u361	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Jan Szopiński from the parliamentary club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u362	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! About Bydgoszcz, the eighth largest agglomeration in Poland, I'm sure everyone in this room heard. But not all of you are aware of the problems this city is facing, the actions of public institutions that support it, and what they are blocking its development. Bydgoszcz is one of the two capitals of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship, with 2 million inhabitants. $350,000. The population is a huge social, cultural and economic potential. At the same time, it is a large community of ambitious, worthy and entrepreneurial people who know their worth, their needs and opportunities. However, the residents have the impression that the subsequent governments were not interested in the development of Bydgoszcz to the same extent as other cities, but were only interested in the votes of the Bydgoszcz voters in subsequent electoral campaigns. Bydgoszcz expects this situation to change in this parliamentary term, that Bydgoszcz will be supported in development as an important and diverse centre of our country's policy. Such support would be the creation of an independent Medical University in Bydgoszcz, which would be another factor in the development of our city. Today in Bydgoszcz he studies over 30,000. students. Bydgoszcz now has sufficient potential to further develop the two universities that operate in our country, which have their headquarters, scientific base and management bodies in Bydgoszcz. I don't think there's any need for medical training to be used by branches of higher education from other cities. I would like to point out that, like I do, a huge community, because almost 160,000. inhabitants of Bydgoszcz and Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship, who, like myself, signed the citizens' bill on the creation of the Medical University in Bydgoszcz and which made this important topic for Poland the subject of the High Chamber today. The idea of setting up an independent Medical University in Bydgoszcz is also very actively supported by places and voivodships of councillors and local government of Bydgoszcz, which has transferred many facilities in our city for academic purposes, also for the benefit of the Bydgoszcz medical university. Also the Marshal of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship confirms that Bydgoszcz and Toruń have the right and should even have the autonomy of vision of their development, because both cities are locomotives of the development of our voivodship. The establishment of the Medical University in Bydgoszcz can be an important strategic step in improving the Polish health system, as it will help to alleviate one of the key problems, namely the progressive absence of doctors, nurses and specialist medical staff. According to representatives of the General Medical Council, nearly 68 thousand are missing in our country. doctors, including pediatricians, psychiatrists, hematologists or endocrinologists. Poland has the last place in Europe in terms of the number of doctors per thousand. residents. The absence of doctors is a key reason for closing further hospital units in Poland. In recent years, Polish medical universities have increased student recruitments, but they continue to educate too little, among others. because young doctors go abroad to work. The establishment of a new medical university would significantly improve the situation on the medical services market, because due to the existence of a good teaching base in Bydgoszcz, excellent scientific and medical staff and medical facilities it would be a good medical academy. At the same time, I would like to reassure the authorities of Torun, the Rector of the University of Warsaw and the scientific staff of the College Medicum UMK that the idea of a civil draft law is not intended to weaken the position of the University of Torun or to reduce the possibility of training doctors and employees of other specialties of the College Medicum UMK. The Medical Department of the University of Poland can develop perfectly and sufficiently based on the model in Poland Voivodship Hospital Complex in Toruń, hospitals in Grudziądz and Włocławek, for Grudziądz it can even be a way out of a crisis. The activities of the medical university in Bydgoszcz will not interfere with the activities of the University of Technology in Toruń, because it will benefit for academic purposes exclusively from Bydgoszcz hospitals and Bydgoszcz educational and social buildings. It is time to establish a medical department, both the first and the second. And today part of our discussion is how to put these medical departments first and second in both cities and one of these academys to emancipate. High Izbo! On behalf of the parliamentary club of the Left, I would like to ask (the bell) to refer this project to the Committee on Health and to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u363	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Dariusz Kurzawa from PSL - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u364	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have a slightly different view of this case because I have been a resident of the former Bydgoszcz province, the Bydgoszcz district, from which I have a mandate, but also for many years I have worked in Toruń. This case concerning the medical university in Bydgoszcz is as difficult as the relationship between Bydgoszcz and Toruń and extremely interesting. Well, it cannot be denied that Bydgoszcz is actually a very vibrant medical centre, it has many hospitals with very high reputation, such as the provincial oncology hospital, academic hospital im. A. Jurasz, military hospital, Biziel's hospital, and a few other smaller ones. On this basis, it would indeed be possible to build a solid basis for a new university, which, as mentioned here, is extremely needed not only for the region, but above all for our country, because it would educate the necessary medical staff. Of course, the establishment of the University of Bydgoszcz must take place by agreement of all communities, because I would like to remind you that in 2004, 15 years ago, the former medical academy was incorporated into the Nicolaus Copernicus University in Toruń and it did not happen by force or against the will of this university, because it was done on the basis of mutual agreement with the UMK, as well as because unfortunately, the Bydgoszcz universities could not communicate about creating one strong creation and building on this basis a solid university, one of which would be part of this medical academy. I remember this story because I had the pleasure of being a doctoral student at one of these universities. However, we as the coalition club Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 are in favour of actually thinking very strongly about the creation of this university and helping this organization because it makes sense for this strong unit to be established also in Bydgoszcz. Of course, we do not deny that the medical department still exists at the Nicolaus Copernicus University in Toruń, especially since, as previously mentioned by the representative of the Civic Platform, there is such an opportunity and the Marshal's office in Toruń invested powerful resources in its hospital complex in Toruń, which could be such a base for training doctors in the city. Besides, there is also a very important issue of 160,000. signatures of the inhabitants of Bydgoszcz and the region, which cannot be ignored - this is a very important voice especially for us parliamentarians, and it is important to lean on this issue. However, a few very important conditions need to be met. First of all, there must be an agreement between the scientific community, because without their agreement and without their consent we cannot do it, and so far there is some resistance to the question of the separation of these universities. That's most of all. The second point - I don't even know if it's more important: adequate funding must be provided for the creation of a new entity, but also for its functioning. It has been mentioned that the University of Nicholas Copernicus is one of ten, is a research university, i.e. at the highest level, which guarantees the acquisition of high resources and very good functioning of such an individual and thus the good functioning of the medical academy. Therefore, it is important to provide adequate financial resources, appropriate agreements between these scientific communities, as I have already mentioned, but also to ensure that students, through the creation of such new units and possible separation of them into Bydgoszcz and Toruń their diplomas, will not lose their education in any way. As you can see, this case is very complicated. On the other hand, I would like to assure you on behalf of my club that, of course, at every stage, we will try to support all activities aimed at establishing a strong medical school in Bydgoszcz, as well as providing suitable training conditions for future doctors at Nicolaus Copernicus University in Toruń. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u365	Thank you very much. It is with pleasure that I would like to take the floor of Mr Grzegorz Braun from the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u366	God's greetings are late. God bless you. Yes, ma'am, I bow down. It would seem that this is a particular, local, regional issue at the most. No, it's not. It's a system issue here, ladies and gentlemen. It's a system issue. Should the Republic, the Polish State, intervene in the educational and health services market? It's a matter of importance here. As the state intervenes, it most often monopolizes, and as it monopolizes, it cuts out competition. And I have such news from Bydgoszcz that the idea of building my own university, medical university, is not the only one. Others have the idea of leaving Nicolaus Copernicus University what it has and building a new university from scratch to compete. I say, not everyone here shares that view. And just so we're clear. The fact that I was born in Toruń more than half a century ago has nothing to do with this view that I am expressing here. Ha, ha, ha! And just to confirm that, I'm going to raise the password, "Bydgoszcz from sea to sea." Excellent slogan of the election campaign of one of our candidates from the other side: Bydgoszcz from sea to sea. Ladies and gentlemen, it is best that we, the Confederates, all the inhabitants of the beautiful, magnificent city of Bydgoszcz enjoying their traditions that we cannot support this project not only because of the concern that should accompany anyone who enters between vodka and appetizer, who in this case enters into an eternal city war, but precisely because of the political issues, the ladies and gentlemen. It's a paradox a little funny, a little scary that one of my esteemed speakers talked about the existence of a medical services market in this area, so he's aware that there's a market, but he wants the central government to make the market. Like 160,000. Our compatriots signed off on this project, and I agree. Absolutely not to be underestimated. Ladies and gentlemen, dear fellow countrymen of 160,000, drop at 100 and you have a budget. Multiply it, [[Applause]] You have a budget, ladies and gentlemen, twice and a half above the budgets of other medical universities. Let's give it to the Medical University of Bialystok. You give Toruni that advice. In Bialystok, the Medical University has less than half of this budget, which you would have had if your votes were multiplied by the sum of 100 PLN, which seems reasonable. And it won't be charity. Become shareholders of your university. If there's a market, it'll work. It's gonna eat, yeah. If graduates of Polish medical universities run, where the fuck grows, behind mountains, behind forests, even to the other side of the globe, there their skills acquired in Poland in various medical professions benefit, this is indeed a problem for the Republic of Poland. But, ladies and gentlemen, a problem that should not be solved by creating some sort of economic emigration, just by withdrawing the state from this market, as well as from many other markets. Because it's good news for anyone who wants to join. This is a guaranteed market. This is a natural monopoly. Where people live, they take care of their health, so you can be sure that you can make money from it, ladies and gentlemen. Not only in Bydgoszcz, but also in other Polish cities. For systemic reasons, the confederate will have to abstain from voting only. We will not be opposed, because we understand that the superstitions and certain economic delusions have formed in many generations, that it is difficult to solve this node by operating on this one particular example. We will therefore refrain from deepening the State's involvement in interventionism in the medical services market. God bless you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u367	Thank you very much, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, we have an hour. 22. 17 people signed up to ask questions. I have a question: Would anybody else like to join the question? If not, I'm closing the list of people asking questions. I'm setting the duration of the question for one minute. I invite Mr Łukasz Schreiber from PiS.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u368	Law and Justice. Excuse me, sir. Law and Justice. Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Dear inhabitants of Bydgoszcz gathered at the gallery! High Izbo! I'm in. I'm in. I have the honour and honor of representing the beautiful, proud and great city of Bydgoszcz in the Polish Parliament. This citizens' project we are discussing in the High House today is an expression of ambition, an expression of ambition, an expression of courage of the inhabitants of the city of Bydgoszcz and finally an expression of their determination. To enjoy medical school in our city. But it's also a word and a sign of mobilization for action. Therefore, I believe that it is important to move from words to actions. I asked the Minister of Health to assist the city of Bydgoszcz in setting up a medical department that could work here. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I will also invite representatives of the relevant ministries and my city, the president of the city of Bydgoszcz, to this discussion. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u369	Thank you very much, Mr Law and Justice. And I cordially ask Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska from the Civic Coalition to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u370	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Bydgoszcz people! Are the arguments put forward by the applicants, and this is 160 thousand. signatures, aren't they enough for the Medical University of Bydgoszcz to be established? The 2015 project is particularly up-to-date today because it responds to the needs of improving health care and the delivery of medical services in the country. One of the most serious problems is the need to train doctors, carry out research work in the wider field of medicine. The creation of an independent university in Bydgoszcz, which has an excellent base and potential, will improve the efficiency of education, the acquisition of external resources for research, self-training and the broadcasting of degrees. It is not about setting up a university from scratch, but it is about reorganising two academic centres to improve the efficiency of exploiting their excellent potential. I have no doubt that the creation of the Medical University in Bydgoszcz (The Bell) is in the broad interest of citizens and will lead to improved health care in the country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u371	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Konrad Frysztak from the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u372	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal, first of all, congratulations. You can see calmness and restraint in conducting this discussion, so different from what we have seen so far in this Chamber. It's beauty and intelligence, sir. I'm congenital. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] And youth. And youth. And modesty. We will see until the end of the debate. Ladies and gentlemen! I congratulate the rapporteur, a multi-annual Member, but also the students gathered at the gallery. I hope that your initiative will be well tested in the Polish Parliament, [[Applause]] and this is only to improve the conditions for training in Bydgoszcz. In Radom we already have the University of Technology and Humanities, which also gained not so long ago medical direction, but unfortunately did not follow the money. Ladies and gentlemen! Taking this opportunity, I would like to ask the ministers how you plan to help the University of Technology and Humanities in Radom (The Ringtone) to improve, above all, the financing conditions, but also the funding of the Radom hospital (Mounting in the Chamber), which unfortunately has problems today due to the lack of good funding. [[Applause]] Wrong platform. Bravo.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u373	Thank you very much for your kind words. I invite Mr Tomasz Lenz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u374	Mr. Marshal! Colleagues mostly from the Kujawsko-Pomorskie region! Well, we didn't learn anything in this debate that's going on right now about what we were debating three years ago. Same arguments, same kind of thesis. That's a good argument. Maybe we just learned that Mr. Grzegorz Braun was born in Toruń. This is a new message if we compare it with the content of the previous debate. Misfortune always goes in pairs. Ladies and gentlemen! There will be no increase in the number of places to study for medical students, changing the signs on the buildings of the rectorate or on the buildings of individual departments. There were arguments that the creation of the Medical University in Bydgoszcz based on the Collegium Medicum UMK will automatically increase the number of places where young people will study. That's not true. This project, which is to be addressed to the committee, was examined during the previous term of office. Ladies and gentlemen (the bell), there is really a need for new places for medical students in the country, but this can happen not on the basis of conflict and dispute, but on the basis of agreement. And that is what I wish everyone in Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u375	Thank you very much. I would like to ask you, Mrs Magdalena Łośko, from the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u376	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In health care there is a significant deficit of persons engaged in medical professions. This affects the safety of Poles and Poles. A few months ago, the PiS government announced an increase in the number of people trained in medical professions. Today you have a chance to prove that these words were not just a pre-election promise. It is the responsibility of the government and Members to respond to the social problems arising from the shortage of medical personnel. The establishment of the Medical University in Bydgoszcz means not only the financial independence of the newly established university. This decision opens up new opportunities for EU funding for research, university equipment and training of medical professionals. Greater means more doctors and nurses who care about our health every day. The Medical Academy in Bydgoszcz in 2004 was wound up by integrating another existing university into the structure. The university, whose scientific and educational base is in Bydgoszcz, should be located in Bydgoszcz. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The adoption of the Act will restore the existing state. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u377	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Olszewski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u378	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council of the City Council! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Schreiber wrote the Minister a letter. The representative of Law and Justice, which I took with quite enthusiasm, assured that there would be a vote in this Parliament. Unfortunately, Mr Schreiber is no longer in this Chamber, so I have a question for the Minister. I understand that this letter will turn into a decision, a positive decision for Bydgoszcz and Bydgoszcz, and in a short time you will give Mr Latos the opportunity to carry out this project by the committee, and I believe that he will do so very well. If there is a political will of the parliamentary majority, and you have a majority that is in no way able to block this project, we will soon be able to celebrate the Uprising (Bell) of the Medical University of Bydgoszcz. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u379	Thank you very much. Welcome to Bydgoszcz with the president of the city council. I cordially greet them. I invite Mr Tomasz Latos, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u380	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ministers! Dear Bydgoszcz! Ladies and gentlemen! We have the following situation. For the rest of the matter to be clear: of course, I support the independence of the Medical University in Bydgoszcz. But just to be clear, in 2004 Paul Olszewski, Piotr King and I, as then councillors, were opposed to this strange, incomprehensible merger. But there is also something to be said clearly and honestly, because I have the impression that here the world championship of some hypocrisy has been established. Ladies and gentlemen! It's your club, the Left, the SLD, along with PSL, that you voted to liquidate this university, to connect with Nicolaus Copernicus University. Those are the facts. Members of the Civic Platform and the PiS voted against. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And let's talk about how it is, because that's the truth, no matter what you say today. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u381	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Peter the King, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u382	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I only have one minute, Mr. Marshal, but since you're a debutante, everyone's congratulating you today, of course I'm joining you. Vaseline. I'll give you a little more time. Ha, ha, ha! Thank you very much. Then I hope you'll consider my request. The point is, Marshal, that someone in Bydgoszcz has eliminated the only university, or actually the only medical academy, so I should say, no: transformation into a medical university. And he wiped out the Democratic Left Alliance in hand with the Polish People's Party. Today there is something symbolic about the fact that this session is led by a marshal, who is the head of the Democratic Left Alliance. So I'd really like to ask your marshal to start with that, that's 160,000. The signatures of the inhabitants of Bydgoszcz clearly indicate that the state then made a terrible mistake. That's the first thing. You haven't done anything about it in four years. But you don't deny history, understand, and facts? Thank you very much. You don't want this university. And the other thing. The facts are that when the medical academy (the bell) was abolished, we were deprived of a great fortune. Hospitals and a big fortune. So today, Mr Braun's speech... Doing it all over again... ...that we're gonna raise money for something, it's just ridiculous. If anyone should be collecting money somewhere, it's definitely not in Bydgoszcz, it's in Toruń. I hope this university will simply rise. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u383	Thank you, sir. You didn't ask a question, but we're moving on. Exactly. Mrs Iwona Michalek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u384	Mr. Marshal! Congratulations to you, too. Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! The Medical Academy was incorporated into Nicolaus Copernicus University not by force. Nobody took the Bydgoszcz Medical Academy, but at the request of the medical Academy staff in Bydgoszcz it was included in the UMK because it threatened to lose its chances of training doctors. And that's what we need to be clear about right now. A unanimous decision. Today you could... Madam, I would very much like to ask for silence, wouldn't I? This project is a bad project because storms destroy the huge achievements of universities, employees of both the Toruń and Bydgoszcz parts, because they all worked to make Nicolaus Copernicus University a research university. They really worked hard for it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is a bad project. Minister! What about the Ministry of Science and Higher Education for such a spoilt university? I'd like an answer. This is Toruń.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u385	Thank you for asking. I have accepted Mr Jan Szopiński's request for correction. After questioning, I'll ask the Member. And right now, Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke of the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u386	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I wanted to point out that this is an oxymoron: either it's a university or it's a medical school. It's either universal or medical school. You can't call yourself that. Maybe. Secondly, I wanted to draw your attention... You realize that the best universities in the world are private universities. Do you realize how many medical students run away from us? Everyone's running away practically because college is free. 611. If they had to pay, they'd think twice. Then you could start a university paid and you wouldn't bother the Sejm, whether you started a university or not, because universities should be private. Again, the best universities in the world are private, not state-owned. Now I understand what it's like to be a state... Now I understand why the level of Polish universities is so low that they are at 500th place in this... Because they're state-owned. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u387	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u388	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm telling you. The Member did not understand. I'm not asking for a fundraiser, I'm asking you to do a good business that clearly gives perspective here. Ha, ha, ha! And I will turn to the left with a historical reminder, which should prevent you from supporting this proposal. Louis Rydygier, the patron of this designed university, and the hero of my affair, Prussia, who liked being a Pole. You know, at the end of his colorful and meritful life he gave such announcements to the newspapers, such a campaign began: Away, as he said, with the ghost of a woman doctor or the absurdity of a woman doctor. Yes, sir. That's the kind of campaign he's campaigned to keep the girls out of medical school. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Enjoy it... I'm not gonna applaud that one, but it should be blocking your initiative. Question. Extremely stupid.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u389	Thank you very much, sir. Oh! Down with the freak doctor's woman - that's how it was. Uh, sir... [[Game in the O.R.]] If I could ask for silence... Mr Marcin Porzucek, Law and Justice. I only have a request - this is the time Asking questions, so that I ask questions. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u390	Thank you very much, Marshal. I'm glad we're meeting after 13 months, and our last meeting was also interesting. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Many inhabitants of northern Wielkopolska, which I have the honour to represent in parliament, are treated in university hospitals in Bydgoszcz. I wanted to ask if the proposed bill, its possible adoption, would have an impact on the functioning of these university hospitals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u391	Great. Thank you very much for the question. Mrs Ewa Kozanecka, Law and Justice. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u392	Dear Marshal, Minister! Minister! High Izbo! Dear Citizens, so many are gathered! Dear Students! 160,000. signatures under the Act establishing the Medical University in Bydgoszcz confirms that the residents really want the university to be established, want to create this medical university, want the university to be independent, independent, have the opportunity to develop, finance properly and cooperate with the local government. The establishment of a medical university will provide the opportunity to introduce modern solutions, free investment, scientific development, hospital development, infrastructure, but above all conditions for professional training of doctors and nurses. It is in Bydgoszcz that we have infrastructure, huge HR potential, scientific, teaching base for students. Minister! Minister! I have a question. Does the establishment of the Medical University in Bydgoszcz fit in with the health minister's strategy (The Bell) regarding the need to increase the number of medical students? Is such a large resource of scientific staff, independent scientists, huge potential in the field of titles, extensive teaching base, infrastructure provide sufficient grounds for the establishment of the Medical University in Bydgoszcz? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u393	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski from the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u394	Dear Marshal, Dear Bydgoszcz! The creation of the Medical University in Bydgoszcz is important not only for the region, but also for the whole of Poland. By setting up a medical unit, the medical facilities can improve decisively and increase the number of doctors and nurses who care about our health. The aspiration, ambition and determination of the inhabitants should be rewarded. It is high time to establish the Medical University in Bydgoszcz supported by nearly 160 thousand. People. The civic project, it is worth recalling, was submitted in 2016, but there is no university to this day. There isn't, because I don't want her Law and Justice. And I know what you're gonna do. You're gonna do what you've done in the last three years-- you're gonna freeze this project, just like you did in your previous term. Shame. The question to Mr Latos and the ministers is: Is it courage to set up a medical university in this term of office? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] There isn't. Thank you so much for shutting us down.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u395	Thank you very much. Minister, there was a request from Mr Konrad Frysztak to respond in writing. I'm asking you very kindly. Mr Robert Kwiatkowski from the Left parliamentary club will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u396	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You asked for questions, so I'm gonna start by asking the initiators of this civic project. By the way, congratulations on an impressive number of 160,000. signatures. Have you, ladies and gentlemen, talked to the authorities of Nicolaus Copernicus University about this? Because speaking of what Mr Latos said, there is some incredible conspiracy of hypocrisy. We're talking about setting up a university, and I'm all for it, if Bydgoszcz, Bydgoszcz, Bydgoszcz, Bydgoszcz community, wants to have a university, no problem, super... Give me back what you took. ...this is the only thing that's supposed to happen on the property of Nicolaus Copernicus University. Teutonic methods. Where is respect for the principles of autonomy? Where is respect for constitutional principles? Where were you when you took two hospitals? If the initiators (the bell) of this bill agree with the authorities of the University of Nicholas Copernicus, I am absolutely in favour, but I think, High Izbo, that this was the place to start. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u397	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk from the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u398	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very pleased that this project is being discussed today. I'm glad because on the one hand we have 160,000. signatures, i.e. civil society, on the other hand, we have the most beautiful and most important investment, investment in knowledge, in science, in the future. The third element is that the local community is so beautifully involved in this project. I think that if there is more dialogue between these two cities, there will be more of these talks, and there is a possibility of dialogue, then one university will be pleased, and the other. This also shows how important the position of universities is today. Today, in a changing world, we need to reserve much more money to support these individual universities, in general higher education, so that they can grow. I deeply believe that one day we will be able to talk about the creation of a medical university in Chelmno, my city. Thank you very much. And in Otwock. Where is it? Oh, my gosh!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u399	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska from the Civic Coalition will speak. That'll be the last question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u400	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers! Dear representatives of the legislative initiative with the president of the City Council, city councillors and Bydgoszcz Youth Council! We cordially greet you. You've shown great determination to collect signatures. This is an ambitious project. Representative of the legislative initiative, Mr Pavlovicz, I would like to ask you to answer the question. Why didn't you do it when you were a senator? The staff is, the science base is, so is there a chance for two medical universities to reach a compromise? This is extremely important. This is an extremely important initiative and we can talk about it in committees. Speaking of which, to Mr Braun, who says he has this kind of Bydgoszcz roots... Prussian! ...Torunian: for 16 million PLN you will not create any university. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We want to direct this project to further work. Give it up for all residents, because only residents can fight for important initiatives in their regions. One more time for the 160,000. I am very grateful to the people who signed up for this project. Formal conclusion. I'll be in favour of directing this project to further proceding. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Formal conclusion, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u401	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the list of MEPs has been exhausted. So... Yes, hello?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u402	Formal conclusion. I suggest that you ask all the people who propose this to tell you how much it costs. Everyone was talking about signatures, HR, resources, but no one told us how much money we had to give. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u403	Thank you, sir. As you know very well, the formal conclusions of this matter do not cover. I would like to ask the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, Mr Wojciech Maximowicz, to speak. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u404	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Mr. Marshal gave me the floor, so I'll speak. I understand I have 15 minutes. There was a message here due to the applicant. Excuse me, formally now. Of course, I'd be happy to speak if you and the marshal allow me. There you go. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education Wojciech Maksymowicz: High Seym! One of the most important reasons for the recent reform of the education system was the concentration of the dispersed potential of universities. Disabling the Collegium Medicum Medical University. Ludwik Rydygier in Bydgoszcz, from the structure of Nicolaus Copernicus University, would undoubtedly mean a step towards the previous structure of the university and a reduction, rather than an increase - such voices sounded - the effectiveness of both higher education institutions and science in the voivodship. The College Medicum in Bydgoszcz belongs to the Nicolaus Copernicus University in Toruń, as well as the College Medicum of the Jagiellonian University in Krakow are the units created by the integration of medical universities into the structure of universities - universities. This solution works well in the higher education system and is part of the main objectives of its development. It should be noted that in October 2003 it was the Senate of the Medical Academy. Louis Rydygier in Bydgoszcz and the Senate of the Nicolaus Copernicus University in Toruń, taking appropriate resolutions, expressed their willingness to join both universities. The University of Nicholas Copernicus in Toruń is currently, contrary to the statements of the applicant, a stable university with a clear, significant scientific potential, with a rich educational offer. It is worth noting that a separate new medical university - if such a separation were to take place - would have less scientific potential. One of the weakest Polish medical universities would be created, deprived of many scientific advantages, which is currently used by the College Medicum University in Toruń. The confirmation of the current position of the Nicolaus Copernicus University in Toruń is the inclusion of this university as the winners of the first competition in Poland as part of the programme of the University of Excellence - research university. With all due respect, the ranking of "Perspectives" is of course one of the important elements of the evaluation, but it does not compare to this extraordinary competition, in which practically only experts from all over the world examined each of the Polish universities who requested it. Congratulations to Nicolaus Copernicus University, along with Collegium Medicum. It is precisely because they were together that they were among the five Polish universities who received a 7-year grant, i.e. extraordinary respect for the highest position in Poland. Of course, there is money that can only continue to go if it continues to be a university in this form. After all, he was examined together with Collegium Medicum. This is over PLN 30 million a year, which earns university. If it is separated, then of course the money will not be able to go there, not only to Toruń, but to Toruń and Bydgoszcz. Ladies and gentlemen, excluding the College of Medicum in Bydgoszcz from the university structure would mean that it would be deprived of the funds received from it. The question has been raised, saying that it is likely that an increased efficiency of a separate university would allow better use of resources, e.g. European. The data's the other way around. The other way around, yeah. Five research programmes were set up in the voivodship programme, two of which are related to the Collegium Medicum and, in fact, if it were to be separated, there is no basis for implementing this programme. These are the principles of the regional European programmes. So it would be the loss of another tens of millions that could support the university's activities. The separation of the Collegium Medicum also involves the risk of reducing the potential of the Toruń-Bedgo academic centre in the context of evaluation results and the quality of scientific activities. Well, of course, the evaluations are all afraid, because this is a new approach. The evaluation has always been there, but every next one raises doubts. There is no doubt that this respected research university has a much better chance of evaluation than a separate, smaller institution in the form of a medical university, e.g. The medical university. It should be pointed out that the draft law on the establishment of the Medical University of Bydgoszcz contains numerous shortcomings of a formal nature. In fact, the printing was submitted precisely in 2016 - the same legal and other references. These are, of course, matters that may prove a certain carelessness in preparing this, but they relate above all to a completely different legal situation. We have a completely different basis, we have a new law on higher education, which gives great importance to autonomy and opportunities for development. Ladies and gentlemen, the largest American universities, which are at the top of the rankings, are concentrating several dozen centers: Harvard, Mayo Clinic, as far as medical matters are concerned. It's a dozen centers. They, creating this together, focusing, coordinating joint actions, are strengthening. It is thanks to this strengthening they are able to reach a higher level. This is what we wanted: to give Polish universities a chance. So this is a completely opposite direction: strengthening by consolidating the scientific potential, not dispersing our forces and resources. Since 1 October 2018, supervision of Nicolaus Copernicus University in Toruń, also in the field of the activities of the Collegium Medicum in Bydgoszcz as an integral part of the university, is exercised by the Minister responsible for. higher education and science. It should be noted that the initiative to set up a new university requires a multifaceted look and analysis, with all due respect for the citizens' proposal. It should also be emphasized that at the moment we have very numerous negative speeches such as the university senate in its entirety, as well as the Council of Collegium Medicum. Ladies and gentlemen, I also had a meeting with the representatives of the Collegium Medicum and I was clearly presented with the position of the Collegium Medicum. So it has to be said that it has been considered and wisely considered by the citizens of Bydgoszcz - who work at Collegium Medicum - that this is a threat. So our decisions must be very prudent, but not emotional, but also cost-effective. That's it. That's it. Because Mr Korwin-Mikke asked the right question. Of course this operation wouldn't be cost-effective. Creating new positions, re-establishing offices - this would undoubtedly help to increase costs that are difficult to calculate even at the moment. But consolidation brings down and more efficiency, and division always gives rise, of course, to an increase. Therefore, many institutions, especially financial ones, led by banks, usually seek rescue in more difficult situations or in terms of development through mergers rather than divisions. Ladies and gentlemen, the project presented relates to the previous legal system - that is what I have already said. It has been established that the organizational units of the medical university will retain the powers to award degrees held by the organizational units of the College Medicum. Well, that's not the case. Under the new law, they'd have to be completely... It's just that a new university would have to be able to get the authority. It's not assigned to the faculty anymore. It's assigned to the university. So another problem. The next problem is doctoral schools, we have the position of a nationwide PhD federation. These are also thousands of representatives of society. These are their voices clearly opposed to limiting their chances of carrying out their PhDs in the already existing doctoral schools of the university. The main board of higher education and the Conference of Rectors of Academic Schools of Poland are similar. They have unanimously adopted resolutions, in negative opinion of the proposal to separate and weaken the University of Nicholas Copernicus. In view of the changes made on 1 October 2018 in the higher education and science system, it should be pointed out that the transitional arrangements proposed in the draft law concerning the establishment of a medical university do not take account of new solutions. To sum up, according to the Minister of Science and Higher Education, in agreement with the Minister of Health, we believe that the extraction and creation of completely new universities from existing university structures is clearly contrary to accepted trends of consolidation and closer cooperation between universities, because it assumes the opposite, weakening higher education and its unit process, resulting in fragmentation of higher education structures in Poland. The consolidation of universities is a worldwide process that promotes the modernisation of the higher education and science system and enhances its innovation and interdisciplinaryness. Combining individuals into larger structures facilitates cooperation, but also gives a better chance of improving the quality of the business and expanding it. Without supporting the consolidation process, it will take much longer to improve the position of the Polish university in international rankings, which you asked and sought. In order to improve the image and strengthen the position of Polish higher education in the international arena, these actions should be undertaken and supported, which will stimulate and not delay the consolidation process of universities in Poland. In view of the above reservations and doubts, the Minister of Science - in agreement with the Minister of Health - has adversely assessed the proposed citizens' bill on the establishment of the Medical University. Louis Rydygier in Bydgoszcz. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u405	Thank you very much. Well, there's the problem. I ask the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee of Mr Zbigniew Pawłowicz to speak. There you go. What's the problem? The point is that the PiS Members said they were in favour and the Minister said they were against.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u406	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! I would like to thank the marshal, the ministers and the High House for their time... [[Game in the O.R.]] I would very much like to ask Members to listen to Mr Zbigniew Pavlowicz. ...even so late an hour and so hot a debate. [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr President, may I ask you kindly? It's late, we're going to the cabin. Mr. Marshal, I'm not the one screaming, I'm the gentleman from your club. Okay, but let's respect Mr. Zbigniew Pavlovicz. I think the people listening to us in the gallery are also satisfied with this debate. [[Applause]] Minister! In many cases, it is difficult to disagree with you. However, please take into account the circumstances in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship. If we are talking about the consolidation of universities, what happened that for 15 years no medical university in Gdańsk, Szczecin, Poznań, Wrocław or Warsaw could be consolidated? It is consolidated in Warsaw. Minister! If it's consolidating, because I've also heard of the Federation, why is this possibility denied to Bydgoszcz? Here's the question, and here's the subject. Let them consolidate. Bydgoszcz has two universities. He wants to consolidate the Bydgoszcz University, which has always been the Bydgoszcz University, and the political decision of the High House has ceased to be the Bydgoszcz University. [[Applause]] That's what the problem is. Please give us this chance. In order not to prolong, because the time is late, I thank the High House for its kindness. I think that this is an opportunity, apart from the debate in committees, here I ask your Members from the Kujawsko-Pomorskie region to make a round table in the voivodship, to sit down to this round table and to come up with solutions that we will present at the meeting of the High Chamber committee and which will be acceptable for Torun and for Bydgoszcz. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] And Włocławka. Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u407	Thank you very much. With a formal proposal from Mr Jan Szopiński, Lewis.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u408	Well, in a formal manner, I would like to ask Minister Maximowicz, which interpretation is true, or the Minister who says that we have no chance in this matter, or Minister Schreiber, who said that we will work on this project. Lecture? What does that mean? But what is it? He's going to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u409	Would the Minister like to answer? No. Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm send a citizens' bill on the establishment of the Medical University to them. Ludwik Rydygier in Bydgoszcz, published in print No. 30, to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Health for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finances on the Parliamentary draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act and the Corporate Income Tax Act (Prints 68 and 103). I ask Mr Andrzej Costowniak to submit a report to the committee. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u410	Dear Marshal, High Seym! I am pleased, on behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, to present a report on the draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act and the Corporate Income Tax Act, print No 68. During the committee's work, ladies and gentlemen, an amendment was tabled which was approved by the committee. The Committee on Public Finance therefore recommends the adoption of this draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u411	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I would first ask Mr Kazimierz Smolinski from Law and Justice. If Mr Kazimierz Smolinski is not here, I would ask Mrs Isabella Leszczyna from the Civic Coalition. There isn't. Thank you very much. Mr Darius Evening of the Left, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u412	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, the proposed bill is intended to enable the purchase of electric cars. The Commission accepted the amendment of the Income Tax Act PIT and CIT. On the other hand, today's legislation is that individuals will be able to use the Low Carbon Transport Fund of 37.5 thousand. PLN as a surcharge for the purchase of an electric car. The value of this car is 125,000. To be clear about these types of cars, we do not produce such cars in Poland so far. There is a simple conclusion resulting from this bill: we will buy cars manufactured outside our country. Therefore, in short, the amendment of this law alone will not increase the number of jobs, it will not cause the economic development of our country, although it goes in the right direction, of course, because as far as electromobility is concerned we must develop, I think, no one in this room has any doubts. We do, we do. Of course, the Member has the right to have doubts about this too. On the other hand, we pay attention to one thing, namely today, as far as our country is concerned, there are about 850 electric car charging stations in Poland at the moment. And these are stations that are in shopping malls, in cities, often in offices. Of course, we are aware that the number of 800 stations will not cause you to move these electric cars across our country. In this regard, we would like to point out once again that, since we are adopting this type of law, we need to ensure that the infrastructure can develop so that these stations are accessible to the public so that we can buy a car that can be used on a daily basis and not just a toy to drive around the city for shopping. It's about being able to drive an electric car like that more than 100 kilometers so you don't have to go home quickly to keep recharging. This is very important, the infrastructure is very important. We absolutely must not forget this. We also point out that as far as the regulation of the Minister of Energy is concerned, for the time being the funds from this fund will only be used by natural persons. This regulation does not address, for example, local governments or economic entities. Very good. Therefore, this will undoubtedly be a restriction in terms of accessibility. Of course, it is very good that this is the case for individuals. Already today there is a clear interest in buying electric cars among dealers of these cars. It can also be seen that this level of car values, or 125 thousand. zł, caused suddenly the prices of these cars to fall. And that's the right direction. The truth is, however, that on the one hand we say: well, we add to electric cars, while on the other hand we impose an obligation on government administration, local government administration, so that they have 10% of their cars in the fleet. electric cars, but we no longer give the opportunity to use this fund. Undoubtedly, this should also happen in the future, so that particularly local governments and administrations help to promote electromobility, and the purchases of these cars could indeed be even greater. Finally, I would like to say that the bill is going in the right direction and we will support this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u413	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, club PSL-Kukiz15. If there isn't, I invite Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke from the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u414	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Confederation will abstain on this matter, because on the one hand the tax reduction is always welcome by us, on the other hand the special reduction causes a bad allocation, because people are doing something that they wouldn't do with a normal economic bill, which means they're gonna misplace their money. I would like to remind you that such expensive cars are usually Tesla cars or other cars, as a matter of fact, a friend of the Left. So I don't see why we should pay for it. I would like to remind you that as Britain was in a crisis under socialist rule, the same as the PiS, there were extremely expensive cars driving along the streets of London, because the state paid for the investment. Well, the state shouldn't pay for anything. Thank you for your attention. Sosnierz's friend will continue. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u415	Thank you very much, sir. I see that Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, the Confederation, will continue as I ask.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u416	As it was right to say before me, it is not right to object to something... Hello, sir. Excuse me? Welcome. Hello, hello, Mr. Marshal. Thank you very much. We should not be opposed to something that would de facto reduce taxes or prevent the State from collecting more taxes, but I would like to draw attention to the justification of this law, which is simply an economic nightmare. I'm talking about the myth of a broken window in a pill when we talk about micro- and small enterprises in the electric car industry, and that's for the economy... If we have some relief for collecting, I don't know, small sticks in the woods, then the sector of small enterprises collecting sticks in the woods will develop, but that doesn't mean that it makes any sense for the economy, because in the meantime other companies will not grow, so such arguments cannot be used. If there are other reasons for introducing this, then ok, while the development of some industry, which we give the privilege of paying lower taxes, is not an argument at all. It's completely absurd. This idea also violates technological neutrality, i.e. It only imposes the right environmental technology or several technologies, pointing them exactly with the finger. This implies being associated with lobbying, suggesting that lobbying is also an option here. Electric cars, if they were better, would sell without any state aid. Well, if you have to help, they're obviously not better. People realize that they are not better, at least at this stage, because they still have some unsolved technical problems that make them more expensive, have limited coverage, etc. You don't know what to do with those batteries. And since this is not so obvious, we are privileged to do so in an artificial way and will now be profitable. Apparently, it's cheaper to lobby than to develop this technology to make it really worth it. I would also like to point out, especially to my colleagues in the Left, that this is another example of how you care about transferring money from the poor to the rich, because poor people will not buy these electric cars. Then, when you're complaining about some kind of accumulation, wealth in the economy, and it's supposed to be through the free market, so remember that we are not operating in a free market. Of course, such regulation is there only a drop in the sea of needs, but just among others. of many such regulations consist of this problem, that in a system managed by the State, in a system of large State interference this does not result in a levelling of the life rate, but on the contrary: a notorious transfer from the poor to the rich. [[Applause]] In connection with these arguments... Oh, you still have to take it. Considering that, since we are in the European Union, unfortunately, we will have imposed standards to achieve low-carbon transport, and therefore it is not worth opposing this objective. Now that we have stepped into the swamp of EU regulation, we need to step into another swamp of regulations. For all these reasons, the Confederation will not oppose the adoption of this law. Nor will we vote in favour. We shall abstain from voting. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u417	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Mr Szczerba asked questions. I wanted to ask if any of the Members would like to come forward again. If not, I'm closing the list. I'm setting a limit of 1 minute for the question. Is Mr Szczerba in the Chamber? Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. So I would kindly ask the rapporteur of the committee of Andrzej Costowniak to take his position.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u418	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission has made clear its views on the need to continue to proceed with the draft law. It is difficult to refer to all these arguments - more or less true - about electromobility. It seems that this is a global trend and the departure from some form of power supply, especially cars, will be our future, so we too need to prepare for this process. We must certainly prepare not only from the government administration, from the local authorities mentioned here, but also from the ordinary consumer's position. This technology, as it has been said, will probably be the technology in force in the next few decades. Just the right technology. Is she the only right technology, it is difficult to say, Mr... You said so yourself, in effect. ...but it's actually one of several, and it's gaining an ever larger market, and it seems that when it comes to what's most important, the climate, because we're also looking at the climate component, some independence from those... Battery production consumes more. ...who produce oil, for example. I think it matters a lot, too. All this makes these kinds of solutions promoted today. I think that this solution in the case of the Polish parliament will also have a justification. Whether the poorer, richer will benefit from these opportunities is hard to say... What do you mean? ...because it's hard to tell if it's a car worth 120,000, it's a lot or not. For us, as Members, I suppose so. There's a lot of people out there with 120,000 of them. It's not that much of a problem. However, it has been defined at the level of this border. Mr. Marshal! Once again, we ask that this bill be passed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u419	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements: Mr Marcin Kulasek, Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel and Mrs Monika Falej. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? I was the second one to write it down. I'm registered as second. Madame, a slight mistake of our bureau. We're getting better. So, what, you want me to go start talking? But there's still Mrs. Barbara Dziuk, isn't there? So, Mrs. Barbara Dziuk, Mrs. Wanda Nowicka, Mr. Marcin Kulasek, Mrs. Margaret Chmiel and Mrs. Monica Walej came forward. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? If not, the list of people making the statement is closed. I kindly inform you that there are five minutes to deliver the statement. I invite Mrs Barbara Dziuk from Law and Justice. There is no Member. I would therefore like to invite Mrs Wanda Nowicka from the parliamentary club Lewicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u420	Dear Marshal, On 3 October 2016 in nearly 150 localities more than 150 thousand. people took part in black protests against plans to tighten up the anti-abortion bill. Manifesto in Poznań under the local office of PiS was brutally pacified by the police. Cops were pushing on the assembled, blindly hitting with sticks and spraying pepper spray. As a result of police operations, many people were injured, beaten, beaten and burned. The police pulled three people out of a crowd of random people: Mr. Maciej and Mr. Jack and Mrs. Margaret. These persons did not know on what legal basis they were detained. After spending the night in the police detention center, without access to a lawyer, without information about the reason for the arrest and even without water, they were released 24 hours later with a charge of violation of the immunity of the civil servants. After the arrests, along with other victims of police, filed a notice of suspicion that the police had exceeded their powers, the prosecution refused to investigate the case. Ms Joanna, academic lecturer, one of the protesters and victims, then filed a complaint against the prosecution's decision, as mentioned by the Ombudsman in his report. A few days later, Ms. Joanna was called to the D.A.'s office, where she was questioned as a suspect, and was then included on the list of persons accused of participating in an illegal assembly, intending to commit a violent assassination of police officers and obstructing the performance of police duties. In the course of her further proceedings, the prosecutor pointed out that, on the basis of the evidence gathered, she knew that Mrs. Joanna had not committed the alleged actions, but, in her view, she had a collective responsibility for any misdemeanor that occurred at the assembly. The term: collective responsibility suggests the political nature of the actions of the prosecution and then the court in this matter. Shortly thereafter, the D.A.'s office re-scinded the investigation into the violation of powers by police officers. After more than a year of preparation, in March 2018, the first trial of the accused took place, during which the judge seemed hostile to the accused, among others. by dismissing questions to witnesses asked by their attorney and making it difficult for them to accept a list of witnesses submitted by them. In the opinion of the accused, the judge was prejudiced against them by identifying them as persons associated with the anarchist environment. On 16 December 2019, after about 20 trials, hearing about 90 witnesses, four defendants were sentenced to 10 to 12 months of imprisonment and after 20 hours of social work per month. It seems that the whole course of the case described here, from the behaviour of the police, through the actions of the prosecutor's office, to the way the judge conducted the trial, was biased and reluctant, and its aim was to reduce the social activity of Poznań activists. The penalties were not very high because there was no evidence that the convicted persons committed any crimes. However, they are stigmatized and disciplined, act as a threat and remind that it is not worth engaging in social activities or opposing power. It is also known that the prosecution, in charging Ms Joanna, had knowledge that she was working as an academic lecturer, and therefore the trial itself, and even more so the conviction, would make it more difficult for her, and may even prevent further development of her scientific career. The prosecutor emphasized during the hearing that as soon as she could, she would notify Mrs. Joanna's employers' trial. The public should know that this is undoubtedly a political repression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u421	Thank you very much. Mr Marcin Kulasek, parliamentary club of the Left, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u422	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! My statement will deal with the controversial vote no. 23 vote in the morning, at least for me and for a few Members. It was a vote no. 23 on the further process of amending the Law on the Law on the System of General Courts, the Law on the Supreme Court and some other laws. The situational description may not be needed because everything was being recorded, it's on a seym video, everything I'm going to talk about in a statement. Your Marshal announces the vote, the vote begins, at which time I would like to point out that my card is no longer working. Your marshal takes note, stops the vote. On the light board on one side and on the other side, the result is that 394 Members voted, including in favour - 201, against - 193. I'm going to fix the card for the post, the card is fixed, your marshal is going on, I'm putting the card in the reader, I vote, your marshal announces the score: 394 votes, - 201 against - 193. I declare, ladies and gentlemen, that I voted against and ask you to include my vote in vote 23 as the opposite vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u423	Thank you very much. The statement will be made by Mrs Margaret Chmiel of the Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u424	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, in the Sejm, once again under the rule of PiS, we have tried a law that destroys the independence of the courts, that is, the law on common courts and the Supreme Court. I voted against, of course, because this law is not intended to restore justice, but is repressive to independent judges. It is suggested that the judges must understand that the judgments are given by Nowogrodzka and that the purpose is to ensure the impunity of the current authority in case something changes. This law is incompatible with the Constitution, which was provided publicly at the committee meeting by even the lawyers of the Sejm Analysis Office. After the adoption of this harmful law, Poland will not be a state of law. Polish courts and Polish judges will not be able to feel confident by issuing judgments, because they will be able to be held liable for the sentence, even for expulsion from work, if the sentence does not please Minister Ziobra and President Kaczyński. As a result, thousands of Poles and Poles protest on the streets. So I protested in court with the residents, also in the Seym, here in the Seym. Legal autonomy emphasizes the priority of EU law over ours, and our power destroys the three divisions of power and openly orders us not to apply European law. They don't have a ruling from the EU Court. PiS places Poland on the margins of the European Union. This is the end of three divisions of power and another step towards the exit of Poland from the European Union. Is that what the Poles want? No. Taking this opportunity, I would like to thank all those who went out yesterday and today on the street to defend the independence of the courts and judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u425	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mrs Monica Falej from the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u426	Dear Marshal, Dear High Izbo! I wanted to refer to the morning vote that took place today. For the vote no. 23, concerning the Act amending the Law on the System of General Courts, the Law on the Supreme Court and some other laws. Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, what is happening in this Chamber shows how you are managed by Marshal Witek by proceding votes and the way this Sejm works. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to speak, please sign up for the appropriate list. And so many Members and many Members have done so in order to be able to speak. That's the procedure. We were in line just to sign up for that voice. At the same time, your marshal is in charge of voting, so many people are unable to reach their place and cast their vote. The cards don't work at the time either. My card didn't work either. It didn't work, and it's included in the video, and it's also possible to verify that we reported this... A friend of mine, my previous speaker, talked about how the card didn't work, so we asked for this situation to be corrected. I voted against, and I would also ask that my vote be included in vote 23 as a vote that is marked against. I would also like to make one more point. At the same time as the vote was being held, I also had an ethics committee meeting. At the same time, Members have no chance either to be in this Chamber or to fulfil their mandate in committees. I therefore ask Marshal Witek to manage the work of this Sejm properly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u427	Thank you very much, madam. I'll give these comments to Marshal Witek. At this end, we concluded our parliamentary statements and therefore concluded our consideration of the agenda items scheduled for 19 December.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u428	That morning, on St. Lucia, patron saint of the blind, on 13 December 1981 General Wojciech Jaruzelski informed the nation about the formation of the Military Council of National Rescue and the introduction of martial law under a decree of the Council of State. On Friday 13 December 2019 we celebrated the 38th anniversary of the introduction of martial law and tragic events that have been minimized and pushed to the margin of Polish historical events for many years. On the night of 12 to 13 December 1981 and in the next few days, thousands of Polish houses were knocked on and placed by force in 50 centres for the interned thousands of members of The activists from Silesia were particularly badly treated, even the rector of the University of Silesia August Chełkowski was arrested and it should be emphasized that he was the only interned rector of the university in Poland. The power was particularly revengeful here in our region, which it considered to be a rebellious and ungrateful bastion. That's why they went to Uncle Pancry: They came at night to the dormant house/ They used to take us around like robbers/ Doors closed open a crowbar/ Idea, go pancry to 'Uncle'. This Polish-Polish war had different faces of victims, among them several-year-olds' faces. There is such a thrilling report by Joanna Siedlecka, Jaworowe children, who tells, among others. about the internment of single mothers and how militia, arresting women, left their minor children to their fate. Another writer, Małgorzata Musierowicz, smuggled and recorded a picture of the experiences of the children and young people of that difficult time in the book entitled "Majgorzata Musierowicz." Opium in broth. This war was suspended on 31 December 1982, and the Garrison Prosecutor's Office in Gliwice was cancelled on 22 July 1983 in the 1980s. The investigation into the death of Uncle's miners was terminated and the trial of the ZOMO platoon of Uncle started in 1991, then resumed three times, and finally after almost 30 years the perpetrators were tried and convicted. The mother of one of the victims didn't get justice - she committed suicide out of despair: "They'll burn to the dead for glory, but hope for the next, where's your clean hands, General? They're turning the pancry back.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u429	I declare that in one of the morning's votes I was shown as a person who did not vote when I tried to vote, but my reader did not work. I was in the courtroom, and before that, I took part in a discussion about the courts.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u430	I present a statement on the value of preventive vaccination of children and young people up to the age of 19, because I could not speak during the discussion in the High House on health inspection and its organisation in the country. The words made by Mr Confederation were that the protective vaccinations required by the health inspection restrict citizens' freedom. As a family doctor caring for the health of children and whole families, I am absolutely in favour of the value of preventive vaccination for the health of children, young people and adults who are chronically ill. The Minister for Health shall publish and publish annually a vaccination calendar based on a preventive vaccination programme drawn up by the Chief Health Officer. This document addresses the age and extent of preventive vaccination and takes into account: free vaccinations for children, so-called. compulsory, and paid vaccinations, recommended to extend the scope of child protection but not reimbursed under the NFZ. Parents buy the vaccine on their own, in consultation with their doctor, on prescription. Both mandatory vaccinations and vaccinations are recommended to be safe and effectively protect against various diseases. Where possible, the health - financial system - changes are made to the vaccination programme by moving the vaccinations from the group to the group free of charge. The vaccination calendar for 2020 has now been announced with a wide range of free vaccinations. Protective vaccinations prevent epidemics of diseases in every human environment. Some diseases have been eliminated from the human population. It's real smallpox, Heiny-Medin disease and other infectious diseases. Gradually, a health inspection on the basis of an epidemiological evaluation extends the vaccine panel. We are witnessing an increasing incidence of measles among children and adults in the last 2 years, and the reason is the lack of vaccination in the eastern neighbours. Is freedom from vaccination, therefore, voluntary responsibility in this regard?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-19-sejm-02-2.u431	I am ordering an adjournment until tomorrow, which is until 20 December 2019 until 3 p.m. 9. And I would like to thank my fellow Members at the Left Club and other Members who have been sitting outside my club in the O.R. for being with me. My first sitting. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] Thank you, thank you very much. I hope I made it. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 23 min 10]]
