ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u1	I open the first 70th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Alexander Swede and Senator Jerzy Wcisła as the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Jerzy Wcisla. Gentlemen of the Secretarys, please take... They already did. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, January 14th this year. Paweł Adamowicz, long-time president of Gdańsk, self-government officer and opposition activist, died as a result of severe wounds sustained in the assassination. This tragic death shocked Poland and Poles, inspiring compassion for their loved ones and condemnation of this crime. I ask you to commemorate President Paweł Adamowicz with a minute of silence. [[Give him eternal rest, Lord.]] [[The gathered answer, "Let eternal light shine upon him."]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] [[It will remain in our memory.]] On 3 January 2019 Leszek Lackorzyński, Senator of the 3rd term of office, member of the Committee on National Defence, the Rules of Procedure and Senators' Affairs and the Extraordinary Commission on the legislative initiative to amend the Polish citizenship legislation. Please honor the memory of the late Senator with a minute's silence. [[Give him eternal rest, Lord.]] [[The gathered answer, "Let eternal light shine upon him."]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] [[It will remain in our memory.]] Thank you very much. I would like to inform the senators that, once the Legislative Commission has prepared a report on draft resolutions on the commemoration of President Gdansk, the agenda will be supplemented by a point on the second reading of these projects. We will consider this point tomorrow, on the second day of the meeting. I would like to inform you that the Sejm at its seventy-sixth meeting on 17 January 2019 adopted all the amendments tabled by the Senate to the Law on the Foundation for the Platform for the Industry of the Future. In the absence of any objections to the minutes of the sixty-seventh meeting, I state that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 60th Senate meeting, in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, are prepared to be made available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to it, it will be adopted at the next sitting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that items two, four and six of the draft agenda be considered, even though the committee's reports on these matters have been submitted at a later date than set out in the Rule. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I propose a change in the order of consideration: the previous point first, i.e. the second reading of the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the inaugural meeting of the Legislative Sejm and considering it as a third point; the current fifth point, i.e. second reading of the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the death of Andrzej Małkowski and consider it as point two. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. State Senators, I propose to supplement the agenda with points: Act amending the Act amending the Act on payments under direct support schemes and certain other laws and consider it as a point of the sixth order of business, after the draft law amending the law on construction law; the law amending the law on industrial property and consider it as item seven of the agenda. If I do not hear the votes of opposition, I believe that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. In the absence of any votes against, I consider that the Senate has accepted the proposals submitted. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the 70th first Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term. I would like to inform you that tomorrow we will start the proceedings at 9.00 a.m. from the second point: second reading of the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of Andrzej Małkowski's death. Then at 10.00 we will consider the third point: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the inaugural meeting of the Legislative Sejm. The votes on these resolutions will be held immediately after consideration of each of them. The remaining votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the first item on the agenda: the 2019 Budget Act. The Senate Marshal sent the Budget Act to the Senate Committee. After considering the relevant budgetary parts, the Senate committees forwarded their opinions to the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, which produced a report on this matter on the basis of which. The text of the act is contained in print No. 1068 and the report of the committee In print No 1068 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Budget and Public Finance at its meeting yesterday took note of the reports prepared by the Senate committees and adopted a resolution on the present budget law. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finance recommends that the High House adopt a law without amendments. During the committee's meeting, amendments were presented during the reporting of individual sectoral committees, which I will discuss and which did not meet with the approval of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance. I will also provide you with a justification for rejecting these proposed amendments. One at a time, then. The amendments were tabled by the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. That's two corrections. The first amendment concerns the Ombudsman's budget. This budget was proposed to increase by PLN 7 million 96 thousand for current expenditure and by PLN 130 thousand for property expenditure. This was to be the source of the general budget reserve. After discussion and hearing the applicant's senator, the Commission did not agree with this proposal for an amendment. The reason for the refusal is the following increase in the Ombudsman's current expenditure budget by 3.7% already this year. and an increase in the remuneration of the Ombudsman's staff by 2.3%, as in the entire budgetary sphere. Therefore, the senators did not see the need to increase further the resources available to the Ombudsman. The second amendment is an amendment concerning the budget of the Institute of National Remembrance of the Crimes Commission against the Polish Nationals. This was a proposal to increase the current expenditure of this institute by PLN 2.5 million. Similarly, a general reserve was indicated as a source of these measures. From the information we received during the meeting from the Minister, we learned that PLN 2.5 million, which is requested in this amendment, is the result of the adoption of the bill... I am about to give the title... of the law on the graves of veterans fighting for freedom and independence of Poland. This Act was adopted on 22 November 2018. The appropriations for the expenditure related to this Act are included in the general reserve and will be transferred to the Institute of National Remembrance from the general reserve. Therefore, there is no need to amend the budget. So much for the amendments proposed by the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions. One amendment was tabled by the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad. This is an amendment concerning the Senate Office's budget, a proposal to increase the Senate Office's budget by PLN 10 million by reducing... The source indicated for this appropriation is the reduction in the resources allocated to culture and the protection of national heritage in the "Musea' section. The information we obtained at the meeting shows that we are dealing with the maintenance of the financing of the activities of the Senate consisting in support of Polish and Polish organizations, keeping it at a historically high level of PLN 100 million, which was set last year, as an exceptional event. We talked here about PLN 100 million for Poles abroad and Polonia for a century of independence. This was, let me remind you, an increase of 30 million PLN compared to 2017. Before that was 70 million PLN. During the century of independence, the Senate received 100 million PLN and the committee decided that maintaining this budget in 2019 of 100 million PLN was sufficient to carry out the tasks of the Senate. And this amendment was not supported by the committee. So much for my part, Mr Marshal, as regards the report on the work of the Committee on Budget and Finance on the Budget Law. I know that for the first time in our House on the budget you have a prime minister, and that is why I limit my speech to technical matters only. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u3	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Who among the ladies and gentlemen... Mr. Senator Rulewski, then Mr. Senator Napieralski. You're welcome, Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u4	Mr Marshal, Senator rapporteur, if you do not fully share your opinion on the budget, it is worth admitting that this budget is Well, to put it modestly, it's positive. However, there is much in it, so to speak, a fold and, above all, negligence. My question: since proposals were made during the committee's work, or there were answers or statements prior to the increase in salaries for the budgetary sphere, as you know, for many years now it has not been understood... I would point out that I'm not satisfied with the answer that it's in the budget 2,3... the raise is what's supposed to be the answer. Two. Do I know that you have repeatedly paid attention to this? Will there be a law that will consume the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal on guardians? A third question that can also satisfy you: is there any budget provision for the next anniversary of the 1989 elections, including for the ECS as a leading institution?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u5	Thank you. Senator Napieralski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, I will return to the question I asked yesterday at the committee that you are chairing. Because today, in your speech, you said about this ombudsman amendment that there were significant increases in the whole office. But yesterday, the ombudsman's employees corrected it, said that the funds were cut down there, and that was significant. Mr President, as there are additional tasks, whether the Ombudsman's office is now a really important office, this money was intended to be used for substantive workers who need to be recruited from the market. Don't you think that this money, which doesn't represent a significant amount, should, however, be taken into account, this amendment should be supported in order for it to be included in the budget?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u7	Thank you very much. The third person asking the question will be Senator Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, I was asked by the politicians of the Right of the Republic to report as their amendment which they suggested to me. This is an amendment concerning the so-called support from the third child to each subsequent child. 500+ was 1,000+. You're talking about how the VAT collection has improved, what is the good state of the budget... I also consulted President Kosiniak-Kamish. President Kosiniak-Kamish pointed out... [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] Don't interrupt me. ...that it would be good if we could give those people or those groups that don't have a vote in the Senate an opportunity to express their opinion. And that's the amendment I made. I would like to know if you can count on your support and how the rapporteur feels about such an amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u9	Thank you very much, senators. And now, Senator rapporteur, chairman of the committee, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u10	Thank you very much. Senator Rulewski's question about the salary increase. As I mentioned, in the budget area for 2019, the increase... the wage fund increases by 2.3%. ... [[Applause]] It's the only...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u11	You will continue in a moment, Mr President. I would like to welcome you very warmly to the meeting of the Prime Minister, Mr Mateusz Morawiecki. Welcome, Prime Minister. [[Applause]] Does the Prime Minister wish to speak on the bill under consideration? We're talking about the budget right now. You're welcome, if the Prime Minister will. Thank you very much. Then we'll go back to answering some very interesting questions. [[Talking in the O.R.]] But I didn't say that all of them... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Knowing your kindness to me...]] Kindness is full and continuous. Thank you. [[Truth and nothing but truth.]] Right, just, Mr. Senator. [[Talking in the O.R.]] You're welcome, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for inviting me to this special moment, for this meeting, during which you are wondering, the High House is wondering about the adoption of the 2019 budget. I would like to talk about this budget here for a moment, because it seems to me that it is a very good budget and it is worth it that all senators, regardless of the political option, have full knowledge and can reflect on its construction, on what is worth supporting and what this budget supports. In my deepest sense, the 2019 budget is the next development budget, it is a good budget in the context of expanding public services, expanding the public budgetary sphere where it is needed and at the same time developing some efficiency, additional savings Of course, it's a sense of responsibility. Where it is necessary for all Poles. We're here. All of us. We want to propose the responsibility of our electoral mandate and such a policy through one of the main policy instruments, which is the budgetary mechanism. This budget proposes balanced objectives of sustainable regional and territorial development, but also social sustainability, i.e. those that involve the broad public in participation in economic life and social life. And above all, that's what we do. These ambitious targets can be seen through some basic budgetary parameters. The first is the budget deficit. It always interests all economists very much, but not only. And here's where I'll start. maybe from a number that connects with the previous year, but it is very indicative, namely from the budget deficit that we are still counting. There's still some recent changes in the previous year. Well, I'm sure you'll remember that he was going to be about 1.5%. GDP, meanwhile, is likely to be around 0.5%, i.e. approx. PLN 10 and 11 billion. And this will be done primarily because of an effective tax policy. [[Applause]] So as far as the budget we are proposing is concerned, the budget with a deficit of PLN 28.5 billion, I am also very optimistic. I think it's a conservative assumption that we'll be able to boast of a better performance than we initially assumed. All economists know that it is better to assume something in a more conservative way and then have certain reserves, certain buffers, than to do the opposite. It is also worth mentioning at the outset that we have joined the top 25 developed countries of the world. I take this as a kind of symbolic gesture, a symbolic shift, because of course it doesn't happen overnight. The fact that one of the major financial-rating agencies, the FTSE Russell, took this step in September last year by moving us from the basket of developing countries to developed countries, is also an appreciation of the economic policy that we are proposing. At the beginning of the presentation of budgetary assumptions, we need to talk about several macro-economic parameters. Literally in a moment, immediately after you speak to the High House, I am going to Davos, where the main topic will be the economic downturn around the world. Indeed, Poland is part of the world economy, it is part of the global supply chain, and as such it will be subject to certain conditions visible throughout the world. But I also want to show you, the High House, that we are well prepared for this. We have buffers in monetary policy, we have them, and other central banks do not have fiscal policy, but also in regulatory policy. Poland has developed at a rate of not less than 5% in the last 5 quarters. This is also an event on a European scale, in the European Union. From among the big countries, we are developing much more rapidly. Of course, in some quarters there are countries that are growing even a bit faster, but I can assure you that this economic growth is the subject of Well, there's a lot to say. Jealous of my colleagues, prime ministers and presidents, with whom I will meet in Davos today and tomorrow. In 2019 we anticipate real economic growth of 3.8% And this year it's going to be about 5%. Again, you can ask why it's so low. I can say, on the one hand, that this will be one of the highest growths in the European Union and, on the other hand, repeat what I said four minutes ago about the value of a conservative approach to budget building. We also assume a stable level of inflation. We define it, also quite conservatively, at the level of 2.3%, which is below the inflation target of the National Bank of Poland, which is 2.5%. So we're back on the good side of power. Let me remind you that today we are in the fourth place from the bottom across the European Union, on this good side of power, in terms of inflation. We've got 1,1%, 2% inflation. This is one of the lowest inflation rates in the European Union. As far as the price of the product basket, all products combined, some products go up a little bit, by a few percentage points, some even higher, but there are also products that are cheaper. In total, we have one of the lowest inflation rates in the European Union in the whole basket. Dear High Izbo, most macro-economicists would envy such model economic growth. Inflation is in line, the budget deficit is close to zero, at the level that I have said, the public debt to GDP - the dream of economists and politicians - is decreasing. Yes, the public debt to GDP is decreasing. This happened already in the third quarter, when for the first time in almost many years he fell below 50%. I said practically, because for the precision of this message it must be added that in 2014. it also fell below 50%, but only because our predecessors consummated PLN 150.160 billion from OFE. Only through this procedure could public debt fall below 50%. We create appropriate tax collection mechanisms. This enabled us to achieve this goal. In 2018, we also achieved the objective of reducing the share of debt in foreign currencies below 30%, which means greater resilience of public finances in the case of asymmetrical macroeconomic shocks and so-called. Supply shocks, demand shocks that we might be dealing with. We're preparing for this, hence the security buffers we're building for this year, for the next few years. For 2019, we are assuming a deficit of 1.7% for the entire public finance sector. to GDP, i.e. again this is a conservative assumption, because we are almost finished in 2018, completely completed, but I am talking about this from the point of view of counting all accounts, and the deficit will be about 0.5%. to GDP, so it is very, very low, actually the lowest in our history in the last many, many years. Thanks to stable economic growth, unemployment in Poland has fallen almost twice since 2015 and the minimum wage has increased from PLN 1 thousand 750 to PLN 2 thousand 250, i.e. by PLN 500. I'm talking about the same time, the last four years. In the Budget Act we also assume that average employment in the national economy will increase by 0.5% in 2019 which will further reduce the unemployment rate to 5.6%. Although there's an explanation here, too. Well, you can sometimes observe the data provided by Eurostat. Eurostat reports that our unemployment is around 3.5% because they measure the actual tendency of people to work, and we have the so-called. registered unemployment, by 1,5 and 2 percentage points higher than actual unemployment. So for the first time in our history, in the history of free Poland you can say Macroeconomicists, economists say so. That unemployment in Poland was practically controlled, i.e. It's... [[Applause]] It still exists and we are fighting this phenomenon, but it is already rather territorially limited, limited to some areas. Poland is also the leader of social expenditure. According to one of the most reputable companies, according to Oxfam, we were among 154 countries in the first place from the point of view of social spending while reducing the budget deficit. So it's a big achievement. Here, of course, all our programs, about which you know perfectly well, the 300+ programme, which reaches 4 million 600 000 students, or 500+, which reaches almost 2.5 million families, i.e. to a total of over 3.7 million children and young people... Development and solidarity This is our slogan, that's the slogan we had during the construction, the creation of this budget. I would now like to present a few main orientations for the allocation of budgetary expenditure. Well, on a budget-wide scale, our expenditure will amount to over PLN 400 billion, the highest expenditure of PLN 416 billion, and revenue will amount to PLN 387 billion. These are the highest revenues planned over the last 20 years, also the highest expenses. We are also increasing it in line with a stabilising expenditure rule and, of course, in line with European Union rules, so that it meets all the requirements of the European Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, how was this even possible? That needs to be emphasized with all the power here. I try to avoid any wording that may be a kind of political tour, but I want to stress that there are two basic variables here, maybe three. All this was possible as a result of an excellent increase in tax collection, above all VAT. At the time of our predecessors there was an increase of about 21 , up to 123 billion out of about 102 billion zlotys. For three years... We ended the year 2018 for the first time I give this number to the public, I do it here, in front of the High House at a level above our plan, which assumed 167.6 billion. We ended this year at the level of 175 billion PLN, and even with a small wrap. [[Applause]] That's the credit. implementation of new collection mechanisms such as a single control file as well as split payment, STIR, SENT I, SENT II, SENT III. Ladies and gentlemen, next year Let the High House draw attention to this. We conservatively founded 179 billion zlotys, and we already have 175. So this conservative assumption of this year's VAT collection is almost certainly going to exceed. It will probably be about one hundred and eighty-six billion. And that means that in four years there's going to be an increase of almost 50%, or maybe even over 50%. At the same time, entrepreneurship is growing, the number of checks falling I stress: a decrease in the number of checks . led by the National Tax Administration and by 38% The higher efficiency of these controls... This has been done and it is as if the key to this economic mini-cube in which we are located. Well, that's the truth. In addition, it is necessary to add the downloadability of CIT tax, especially from international corporations. We'd like you to pay attention. We have lowered CIT, also thanks to this House's decision, for which I thank you very much. We lowered CIT from 19 to 9% for 95% paying CIT to entrepreneurs. There are about 460 thousand companies that pay CIT in Poland, and this reduction will cover 95% of them. She is for companies with a turnover of about EUR 2 million, which is 95%. However, the collection rate of CIT is increasing. What does that mean? It means that our travels to Davos, urging the European Commission to avoid tax havens, to avoid tax evasion, are effective. The solutions we have implemented are effective, because we have increased the income from CIT tax in four years... we will increase, because this year has not yet ended, by about 10 billion, and for eight years the governments of our predecessors have increased these revenues. Okay, here's the It decreased from 34 billion 600 million to 33 billion 800 million. That's what they've been down for eight years. And in our case, for 4 years, despite the reduction in CIT for all small and medium-sized enterprises, the revenue increases by PLN 10 billion. This is the effectiveness of our mechanisms, of what we have implemented. Similar successes, although more linear, not so jumping, we have in the case of PIT and other danins, but I no longer want to talk about it in detail. The implementation of social programmes will be coordinated and continued, ladies and gentlemen. It'll be on the spending side. Thanks to the vocation of the Self-Government Road Fund... Here's a few billion zlotys, a six-billion-dollar fund. Such an allocation for the development of district roads, municipal roads has never been in the history of the Third Republic. It is worth noting that these are not EU funds. We're grateful, for example. for EU funds, in particular for the development of railways I came to you straight from the railway development congress, the future and prospects of the Polish railroad, because there really are measures largely from the budget of the European Union, from the cohesion budget. But here we have our national budget, the resources that have been developed precisely through the effectiveness of budgetary policy. I would like to outline to the High House, as it were, in large aggregates, our main orientations for the allocation of budgetary expenditure. Nearly 98 billion zlotys are for health care, it may reach almost 100 billion zlotys. The health budget has never been this high. We also increase it in proportion to GDP, as agreed by the Minister, then Senator Konstanty Radziwiłł, which, of course, contributes to a great headache in the Ministry of Finance, but this is the role of the Ministry of Health, because it represents the needs of patients, the needs of society as a whole, and this is extremely important. So thank you very much, Minister, Senator, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal has always been very keen on this, too. [[Applause]] 84 billion PLN for education, science and higher education is also a record amount. 79 billion PLN is for defence and security. Here we also follow this requirement of NATO-Wskie, which speaks of 2% GDP, for which we are praised and what is useful to us in the international arena, can be seen from some statements. On the other hand, as I am speaking with the Chancellor, the President of France or the leaders of other NATO member states, I would stress that we are one of the few countries that spend 2% on defence policy. or more. And we have here an argument in discussions with our partners, which is of course also very important. We also have a record increase in the total expenditure on pensions and pensions in the same valorisation, which will largely be based on quota valorisation, which the High House probably already knows what its orientation is. From 1 March we will spend an additional 8.5 billion on valorisation so that the lowest pensions are valued at least by this amount, i.e. by an amount of not less than 70 PLN, of course this amount will vary in percentage, there will be different percentage proportions after the pension amount And then it'll be even higher than the 70 zlotys. This will be the design of this pension rating in 2019. It's a very important budgetary parameter. Most basic quotas are also thawed and increased in different places, sometimes by up to 4%. Let me remind you that for many years before this base amount in the budget was frozen, so we will not catch up in one year either. But I want to assure the High House that we also have in mind that in the 2020 budget, which is about to happen, because time runs like this, i.e. Since March, from April will be constructed at the Ministry of Finance, these base amounts have increased. The point is also that in dialogue with trade unions, with employee representation, we can present a path of progress, wage increases, because it is very important, such as the socially discussed increase in teachers' salaries. Look at the increase in salaries for teachers: April of last year - 5% , January of this year and in the next 12 months or earlier it will also be 5%, so in the compound percentage it will be over 15% for teachers. I know that Minister Zalewska is now talking to the teaching community about this problem as well. And the main expenses "Family 500+..." "Family 500+..." "Family 500+..." "Family 500+..." "Family 500+..." "Family 500+..." "Family 500+..." "Family 500+..." "Family 500+..." "Family 500+..." "Family 500+..." "Family 500+..." Little ZUS, spending on improving entrepreneurship. These are various topics that are also reflected in this budget. We continue to seal the tax system, continue projects launched in 2018, e.g. split payment mechanism We're counting on it. or the obligation to report tax schemes. You may remember some interesting, innovative regulation that we have implemented since September last year; there was a lot of discussion about it. The idea was that some companies with the highest turnover, 2,000 companies, fully transparently show their profits, revenues, costs. This is already giving results, because this is how we launch natural market mechanisms, companies are looking at each other, wondering: why do I, having a similar turnover as my competitor, pay 200 million PLN and he pays 20 million PLN? So that in this way we also encourage such natural socio-economic mechanisms for verifying tax structures. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to stress that this year's budget is a development budget and is a solidarity budget. It is also a budget that provides all the requirements of the European Union and a secure budget. Due to the current phase of the economic cycle, it is also a budget that gives us some reserves, some buffers in the event of a possible slowdown in the euro area, a slowdown in the global economy. It is a good budget, one that offers good prospects for economic growth and, at the same time, secures all our social programmes, so it is a solidarity budget. I therefore ask the High House to adopt these budgetary assumptions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u13	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister had to fly to Davos immediately after his speech, but he said three questions. So please, it's time for three questions. Mr. Senator Rulewski, Mr. Senator Augustyn and Mr. Senator Klein. Please, three questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u14	Mr. Prime Minister, it is true that... [[Of course, the limit of one minute, gentlemen of the Senators.]] Indeed, the budget contains many indicators, but they are also important here, so to speak, forgetting. It goes on, among other things. the budgetary sphere. A raise isn't a raise here. That's not true, that's compensation for losses, the damage that happened nine years ago, including three years under the PiS. Increase by 2.3% means some injustice towards other professional groups from the administration, which receive an increase of 5%. Here's another thing. It is not true, or it is incomplete, that the public debt in Poland is well. This debt only in the quarter... in 3 months last year increased by PLN 27 billion, and 1/3 is served abroad. It is true that he is decreasing, but in some ways you will not fill the boiler or plate of the Polish family with a proportion of GDP. What is important is how much of this money we will spend outside, and here, unfortunately, the country's economic policy, especially the monetary policy, causes the money to weaken, the debt is growing, and at the moment it is already, according to proper terminology, 1 trillion 350 billion PLN, or about 40 thousand PLN per family. [[Yeah, but the question is...]] What do you say? [[Question... there were two questions already.]] What do you say?!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u15	Okay, thank you very much. Prime Minister, we will now ask Senator Augustine, Senator Kleina, and then the Prime Minister's reply. Senator Augustine. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u16	Mr Prime Minister, it is very sad that, despite the protests of people with disabilities in Parliament, the budget does not provide money for the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, which obliges us to equalise the care provision for elderly carers. This is the first case. Second thing. Our economy is facing a serious barrier to the labour market. The fact that unemployment is so low is a joy on the one hand, but on the other hand it is a challenge. I don't find traces or good migration policy in the budget so I can bring guests to work here, or a good spending policy that would allow those who come here, for example. from Ukraine, to stop and assimilate, nor the activation policy on the labour market, especially the elderly, in the latter segment of the money are traceable. And finally, I wanted to ask... [[That's three questions and a minute's up, Senator.]] Last short, Mr. Marshal. [[That's the last one, but very short, Mr. Senator.]] The budget does not indicate that we can make sufficient progress in the transition to a zero-carbon economy and the development of RES, but before us, after the decline that we have in this area, possible large penalties. What do you say, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u17	Thank you very much. Senator Klein, and then we'll ask the Prime Minister for answers. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u18	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! You informed us that this year there will be an increase in wages, a frostbite of wages, and that this increase in the budgetary sphere will amount to 2.3% on the assumption, very cautiously, as the Prime Minister said, that inflation will amount to 2.3%, as the government assumes, because the National Bank of Poland assumes an inflation of 2.5%. So in practice this means freezing the wage level at the current level. If this is compared to past times, we don't say to which, when these wages were frozen, then we have to say that inflation was zero and even deflation. Right? So this is a completely different situation. It seems to me that honesty would need to be shown in this context as well. Second line. We're also talking about this. And that's what we see. That there is a huge increase in budget revenue. You said there was a very good condition of the state budget. Why, then, e.g. on express roads and on other roads still seem less than in the past? Some investments are closing down or holding back. Such an example is extremely important from the point of view of the exclusion of communication express road No 6 from Szczecin to Gdańsk. The investment has now been stopped for 4 years, the fourth year has passed and there is no hope of launching it, and these are the areas most excluded from communication in Poland. There are many such examples. And the third case concerns health care... [[It's the last one, sir, because the minute's up, Mr. Senator.]] We are talking about the fact that such a large amount of money is intended for health care, the Minister is talking about 98 billion PLN. So why are the funds allocated to many county hospitals for this year, for 2019, lower, and to a significant extent than they were in 2018? An example is the hospital in Lębork, which has far less resources. [[Because he didn't do the contract.]] And there are many such cases, at least in the Pomeranian Voivodeship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u19	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u20	Thank you so much for these questions. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, the questions of Senator Rulewski relating to public debt and the increase or frostbite of the basic amount. First of all, it should be stressed once again that, according to this I'm going to combine a little 2 questions about what Senator Kleina said, actually for some years there's been a deflation, exactly for 2 years. But didn't you add that inflation was over 5% in some years? or about 5% ? [[Yes.]] So that's right, too. And for most of these years, there's been a total frozen amount... [[Yes.]] So we're kind of catching up on the past right now. But this is the first part of the answer to the question. Of course, we'd like to see more... But the whole budget, so-called. Zero, as they say, 646 employees... And, of course, another professional group of 500 thousand teachers, 250,000 nurses, etc... It can be calculated that in total in different categories it is about 2 million people or even 3 million people, if we add to this PKP, Polish Post, etc. But let's focus on this group of 1.5 million to 2 million people. Well, that's 2.3%. does not give away our actual policy of increases that we have set up for this year, because in many groups, in those that were the lowest allowed, these increases are higher, I say here. About the uniform service. In uniform services it is not 2,3%, that's more, because uniform services showed that in 2008 and 2015 they were more lossy and there were no increases. So we now, you can say, in some groups we actually make up for this lack of raises in the past. But there are, too. Mr Romanchuk would know very well. Differences within the different headings. Take, for example. The Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture and the National Centre for Agricultural Support. The average salaries in these 2 different agricultural agencies are different. And in our sense, it is necessary to have such a policy, so that where there are lower wages, they grow a little bit faster. And that's what our policy is about. E.g. in voivodship offices where wages have not been raised for practically 8 years, right? The salary doesn't increase by 2,3%, but by 4% or 6,3%, and even there are talks about just... That's over 6%. Maybe I can safely say that. So, by answering together the questions of Senator Rulewski and Senator Kleina, I'm going to say that it was a freezing of the base amount, an increase of 2.3%, but practically teachers... For 500,000 people out of this 1.5 million or more than 1.5 million, that's not 2.3%, that's 5%. 9 months ago, 5% Now, 5% For... It's a whole different pool. Right? You also spoke of a public debt, Senator Rulewski. Mr. Senator, here we have to remember some numbers. When power changed in 2007, the public debt amounted to 511 billion. When power changed eight years later, the public debt was 888 billion plus 150 and 160 billion from OFE. Because everyone agrees, no one questions that taking 160 billion from the sky and consummating them is exactly what it would be... If it wasn't, it'd be so much public debt. So 888 billion plus 160 billion is 1 trillion 48 billion. Out of 511 billion... It is easy to calculate that within 8 years it is an increase of 105%. Right? And it's kind of the simplest math. I've said it 10 times, no one's ever questioned it, because that's the truth about those eight years. Mr. Senator, there's been an increase in public debt over the eight years of our predecessors by 105%. Which means it's more than twice as tall. Meanwhile, we, taking over this debt, held on to the same numbers of 888 billion... Today, after 4 years this debt is about 1 trillion, maybe a little over a trillion. Yes? [[500 billion...]] Maybe a little over 1 trillion, which means over four years this debt has increased by about 15%. I assume there won't be any more. Ladies and gentlemen... [[500...]] ...15% ... For now, I use percentages because it's easy to empathize and say: over 1 trillion. It's just that over 1 trillion it's already been for our predecessors, but they've reduced it by consummating 160 billion. So a fair take on the subject of debt is to use gentle words It's very difficult not to say embarrassing to our predecessors, Senator. And now I'm going to refer to the last issue that you raised, which is the proportion of GDP. That is what is of great importance. In the European Union, this is the only parameter that the European Commission is interested in, not the absolute level of debt, but its level in proportion to GDP. Establishment of the Maastricht criterion 1992, so-called The convergence criterion, which is still in force today, is precisely the ratio of debt to GDP at a limit of 60%. Which, by the way, is inscribed in our constitution. So when it falls for the first time below 50% in relation to GDP, it should be enjoyed and it would be worth applauding. [[Applause]] Thank you. Senator Augustine asked about people with disabilities. Mr. Senator, we followed the promises made to disabled people, the whole environment last year, over six months ago. ...We already increased the minimum pension expenditure by over PLN 600 million plus an additional PLN 1 billion in NFZ to support people with disabilities in rehabilitation processes, which is reflected in the budget of the NFZ, it can be verified. Besides, we implemented the bill back then, as you remember. People with disabilities at the beginning of July even checked how this bill works, and somehow there was no public discussion about the fact that it did not work, so it worked. And in addition, as the third instrument, we implemented a solidarity tribute, as you remember, at a level of 4% from people who earn more than PLN 1 million a year. This tribute will also be used to support people with disabilities. So it is not that this budget does not include the solidarity elements that you have asked for. [[To the Court...]] The next major issue concerned labour market barriers. Indeed, I admit, it is a very big challenge, a social challenge, an economic challenge. Here I can tell you I'm happy to see the unemployment drop. Employers show how much they need their hands to work, their heads to work. We try to make this easier. After all, this is why over 1 million workers who migrate from Belarus work in the territory of the Republic of Poland, mainly from these two countries. So we're trying to do it. And also from the Labour Fund... Because there was also a question of whether there were any funds that were allocated to this. From the Labour Fund we spend less money on something that today would be strange, i.e. to activate workers where there is virtually no unemployment at all. Right? We spend on programs, only those programs were 2 years old. And Minister Rafalska had already reduced the pot two years ago, which was about 5 billion 800 million at that time. And it's gradually decreasing. So this shift in the Labour Fund is really happening. But I admit it. And thank you for your attention. It's worth more money, e.g. to activate the elderly. That's what you asked the senator. I will draw the attention of the Minister of both, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of the Family's attention to whether or not more resources could actually be shifted in agreement with the Council of Social Dialogue for this purpose, because this is a very important point. I share that reflection. To answer the final question in full... It would take a really long time. It was about RES, Senator Augustine's question about renewable energy sources. But let me say this briefly: about a month ago, Minister Tchórzewski proposed an energy mix within the framework of the energy policy presented until 2040. And there were huge measures and regulatory preferences for renewable energy sources. Well, as I'm sure the senator knows, but I can remind all of you of that, it was established above 8 GW power in wind power at sea. ♪ I can't believe I'm up to that amount, maybe up to about 10 billion. And in photovoltaic energy With 10,000 MW of installed capacity in 2030, up to 20,000 or 20 GW capacity in 2040. So these accents on renewable energy are very strongly located there. However, I also agree with the senator that this is a great challenge for us in the context of the European Union's climate policy, because it assumes that about 100 million allowances are free in the years 2020,2030 and 130 billion are needed. Right? So this 30 billion we have to... Sorry, 130 million. So this 30 million multiplied by 10 could cost us up to EUR 20.30 billion. This is a huge challenge for Polish energy and here I agree with the senator that we need to accelerate investment in renewable energy The wind at sea, photovoltaic. We are discussing this with Minister Tchórzewski. And now I'm going back to your next questions, Senator Kleina, about the roads. I'm not convinced of 110%, but it seems to me that this episode from Szczecin to Koszalin road S6 because you specifically asked about it. It's built... [[What's that?]] From Szczecin to Koszalin. [[No, Szczecin Gdansk.]] But wait a minute, you mentioned that from Szczecin to Gdansk... Well, for it to be from Szczecin to Gdansk, it must also be from Szczecin to Koszalin. Right? The Zachodniopomorskie voivodship has 4 so-called. Escort, if I remember correctly, which one we moved. He's got an S6, where the work continues. He's got an S11 that goes from Koszalin south to Szczecin, and we've moved on with the work. There are also design works on S10, through Wałcz, which then goes to Płock and Bydgoszcz, which will also be an important artery. And, of course, there's an S3, which goes north, through Szczecin, south. So S6 no one's stopping here, this work is... [[She's on hold.]] [[She's on hold, Prime Minister.]] Mr. Senator, I'll check the details, but... [[We'll check.]] ...two months ago, I was assured that from Szczecin to Koszalin these works were... [[Voice from the hall: From Gdansk...]] But wait a minute. Before we go from Szczecin to Gdansk, we also need to get to Koszalin by eska. If we all agree that she's being built, then I'm happy about it. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] And again, I have to mention that express roads are also project preparation. As Minister Kwieciński and Minister Adamczyk have emphasized several times, these projects in 2015 and 2016, to be gentle, were not as much as we could expect. So you had to prepare these tenders, you had to run this machine. And the number of these eggs, the number of tenders placed, today is satisfactory for me. You also asked about hospital resources. The funds for hospitals, as part of the reform of the hospital network that he started, were being initiated by Minister Radziwiłł, increasing. As it is in this particular hospital, I would have to check, but I know that in the case of a huge number of hospitals, the vast majority of them, I think 99%, but I'll check it out. These measures are increased from year to year. And as far as Lębork is concerned, I'll try to further answer the senator. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal, for inviting me. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u21	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, thank you very much. We wish you fruitful deliberations, talks in Davos. Thank you very much. We're going back to Senator Bierecki. Senator Bierecki continues to answer the senators' questions. The senator has not answered all the questions yet, and these questions were asked by Senators Rulewski, Napieralski and Libicki. And answer these questions please. And the others have already signed up. We've got two people on file. There you go. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Wait, why don't we take a minute's break. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Well, after such an excellent speech you can only say: Enjoy, Mother of Poland! We have a great budget, we have people who are well prepared to implement this budget. [[Bravo!]] [[Applause]] As to the questions, I must say that the Prime Minister has partially answered the questions I have received. The question of financing carers for disabled persons was raised in the Prime Minister's speech. The issue of raises for the budgetary sphere has also been discussed widely by the Prime Minister. As far as the question on the European Solidarity Centre is concerned, this issue has been raised. We were informed at the meeting of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance that during the meeting of the Committee on Culture, an amendment tabled by Senator Borusewicz was discussed. It did not receive the support of the committee, hence the committee requested that these sections be adopted without amendment. Senator Libicki asked me about my attitude towards the amendment... It was $1,000 for a third child. Yes? That's how I wrote it down. I didn't see that amendment. I'd love to see what the sources of funding are. We would certainly all give as much as possible from the heart, but we must look rationally at the budget, at our capabilities. The fact that the program is functioning smoothly in Poland 500+ and that this budget provides funds for the implementation of this programme in its current form, is, after all, a great success, achieved thanks to the great effort of all of us. And this is a very necessary program. Its extensions, modifications will probably be possible in the future. As for Senator Libicki's amendment, as I said, I have not seen it yet and I do not know the sources of funding indicated. With regard to the Ombudsman's issue, these funds to finance the Ombudsman, during the meeting I was informed that this amendment was accepted by the Human Rights Committee in a rather interesting way, because with one voice. I mean. the applicant himself voted in favour and everyone else abstained. That's what happened. Congratulations on this one-man majority to Senator Napieralski. As you can see, he has successfully managed to implement this amendment. However, this amendment concerns the financing of the Ombudsman's new tasks, of which we have not been informed. We do not know what other tasks are to be financed. As far as salary increases and the Ombudsman's budget increases are concerned, as I mentioned in my earlier speech, when I discussed the amendment, they are at 3,7%. as regards the increase in the entire budget of the Ombudsman's Office and 2,3% as regards the increase in salaries. So we think it's satisfactory. The Ombudsman carries out important tasks, but other departments of administration, other central offices also carry out important tasks, they do it well, so... I wouldn't want us to start discussing which office is more important and which employees work better. The general, budgetary indicators adopted are fair to the staff of this office. It's exhausting my answers. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u23	Thank you very much. You're gonna ask Senator Zarin another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u24	I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur. I am talking about whether two points were considered a bit more deeply during the meeting of the budgetary committee, two amendments which were made at different stages. The first is the one concerning the Institute of National Remembrance, the increase, or rather the restoration of this level of funding, which was advocated by the IPN, i.e. the increase by PLN 2.5 million in expenditure on the work of the department dedicated to commemorating memorial sites, graves, etc. I'm asking you this because there's been some internal illogicality. On the one hand, we as Senate Of course, the Sejm also introduced a law on graves in November 2018, which directs new tasks to the Institute of National Remembrance and, on the other hand, at the same time, we took money from this section from the IPN to carry out the task. This is a simple way to later criticize the activities of the Institute, well, it can be said in an intentional manner. I think that our formation is the last one that wants to bring closer to the stage where someone asks the question why the IPN is there. A great request for an answer to the question whether it has been deepened, whether it is really this reserve and these measures are so guaranteed that there will not be such a cause and effect mechanism as I am talking about. And the second question about our senate affairs. We are, of course, very grateful, and we stress that we, as the Senate, managed to find among all decision-makers in 2018 100 million PLN for Polonia. And this attempt to gradually increase these measures is not the result of some senate whim, but of an authentic, constant increase in needs, visible in offers. And therefore, since this pool of potential beneficiaries is constantly increasing, counting on the aid of the Polish state, i.e. Polish communities and Poles in the East, not increasing is also a negative signal. Was there any analysis at the meeting of the budget committee by the invited representatives who would be willing To see not only on the Senate's side... Because we've pointed out that the Senate Office is ready to move part of the funds... Or, for example, in the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs there would be an increased envelope of funds for Polish and Polish people in the East, so that Polonia would receive a clear signal that the Polish state This isn't just about the Senate. Is it constantly in favour of increasing spending in favour of Polish and Polish people in the East? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski... I don't see him. Senator Shark.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u26	Thank you very much. Mr President, as a result of the adopted amendment of the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and some other laws, some of the local authorities unfortunately faced the phantom of the introduction of the committee board, they already have a repair programme, because... I will say this on the example of the municipality that is in my district. The property tax loss from the wind power plant amounted to PLN 6 million 329 thousand 764. The amount of overpayment resulting from this write-down of more than 3 million had to be settled in September 2018. In addition, it must be added that the municipality therefore, in quotes, still had to make a contribution to the state budget so-called. Janosik, more than PLN 0.5 million. Therefore, the three municipalities I am talking about, from my constituency, are unfortunately in a dramatic financial situation and, as I said, are threatened by... There was a promise made by the Minister, me and Senator Czarnobaj asked... Self-governments fought for a long time... Unfortunately, there's no response. Don't you think that, in this tragic situation, these municipalities belong in the first... I will address the Minister in writing on this matter, but I would like to ask here whether, at least during this period, the budget of the State should not help these local authorities, because it was not their fault that these provisions were amended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u27	Thank you very much. Now, Senator Augustine, and then I will give the floor to Mr President. You're still a senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u28	Mr President, the Prime Minister spoke, among others. 500+. I hope you can explain why the budget expenditure on this programme is falling by 10%. Did the children die, which would mean the failure of this program, or did they lose the rightful ones? What's the reason? Second question. Why is the Energy Regulatory Office's budget so much smaller? Through our House we carried out successive RES laws, on energy law, on the power market, which showed that the Energy Regulatory Office would have additional, very serious tasks, and now it turns out that it has a reduced budget. How is he gonna handle this situation? And the third question. The Prime Minister did not answer specifically, even though he spoke a lot about the involvement of funds for people with disabilities, where there is money in the budget for the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. I will remind you that we have transferred these funds to you in reserve during the change of power, and then you have withdrawn from it. There are petitions coming to the Senate, there are administrative judgments ordering payment in such a case, and this case is still not settled and I regret to state that it is not provided for in the budget. Why?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u29	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u30	Thank you very much. The IPN issue. Before the meeting, I asked the Minister, who will also speak in this debate, to clarify this issue in detail, because we are dealing with events that occurred in the Sejm, during the parliamentary work, and with some confusion about the IPN position on these budgetary measures. During the meeting of the committee, as I explained when I presented my objections to the rejection of this amendment concerning the increase of the IPN budget by PLN 2.5 million, we received information that this is about PLN 2.5 million, which is intended to be used to carry out the tasks set out in the Act on the graves of Veterans fighting for freedom and independence of Poland. We have been informed from the current Minister that these measures were not explicitly included in the Budget Act as measures for the IPN, because the Act was adopted in November last year, so already in the course of the work on the budget, but they are provided in the budget reserve. This morning I received a letter from the President of the IPN addressed to Mr. Marshal Karczewski, so after the commission's work had been completed I received this letter, in which Mr. President points out that it is essentially about PLN 5 million, i.e. an increase of 2.5 million in current expenses, which was reduced in the Sejm, according to this letter, which prevents the Office of Remembrance and Martyrdom from functioning. I would like to recall a passage: in the current expenditure state, the activity of the Office of Remembrance and Martyrdom is impossible, as the amount of funds left behind does not even cover compulsory expenditure, i.e. income from salaries, contributions to the company's social benefit fund, rent fees, energy and, above all, the actual activity to date. Well, that's a completely different argument that the committee didn't have in the course of its work. The letter, as I mentioned, was received after the committee's work was completed. Before this debate began, I asked the Minister to respond to this issue in his speech and to inform us of the events that took place in the Sejm so that we could understand this confusion with regard to the IPN budget. Surely our intention is not to limit the activities of the Institute of National Remembrance, for which it is the activity of... On our part, I would like to express my highest appreciation. So I would ask the Minister to explain this in detail. The moment we made the decision as a committee, the state of our knowledge was as I reported. Unfortunately, it did not reach us until after the work was finished. The second question concerned the budget, resources for the Polish people and Poles in the East. This is a historic increase, a very significant increase, because from 70 million to 100 million, the century of independence was supposed to be a one-off event. That's how we understood it back then. I consider it a huge success for the Senate and our marshal to maintain this high, 100 million-dollar budget also in 2019. I hope that this will also be the case in the coming years. In 2018 we had a very large increase in percentage, with a very large increase in budget, from 70 to 100 is an increase rarely found in the budgets that law firms have. Will these measures be in other positions? I would like to remind you that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs also has funds that can be used to finance tasks carried out by Polish and Polish organizations. So this is another source. Besides... I know that Mr. Marshal has this issue at heart and that he will take action. Already in the course of the year In order to increase the resources that will be available for this important task of the Senate. It is also worth recalling that it is possible to change the budget, to transfer funds in the budget during the year with the approval of the Parliamentary Committee on Public Finance. This may be the solution to the IPN problem. Yes? If there's really a misunderstanding here and there's some oversight, then maybe we can use this path. Already in the course of the year, it would be appropriate. You have knowledge of this subject, Mr. Minister, who knows previous correspondence, including from the IPN. As I said, I am confounded when it comes to this matter, however much good will, with regard to the budget of the IPN, whose activities I judge excellently. They're doing a great job, and we certainly shouldn't be the ones who bother them with this important job. [[It's true.]] Right? We agree, and that, I think, is a common feeling in the Senate. We're still ahead of the debate. If it turns out that there is a need to amend this part, we can go back to the amendment proposed by the Human Rights Committee in the debate. The situation for now, when I report, is that from the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance we have a proposal to adopt a law without amendment. Senator Stark... [[A shawl.]] ...the question is more of a signal than a question. The problem of local government burden arising from the functioning of RES. Yes? [[With a change of law.]] With a change of law, yes. This issue was not addressed at the committee meeting, so I am unable to respond. I don't have any information to share, but I'd be very happy to read the signal. Perhaps this is the place for some Senate action. Senator Augustine asked for a reduction in funds for 500+. One of the reasons that was signalled is the increase in wages. So we are dealing with a situation where wage increases have a negative impact on the number of beneficiaries of the 500+ programme. [[Number of eligible persons.]] Yes, the number of eligible persons. Detailed information was not provided during the committee, so I am redirecting this question to the Minister who has this data. I don't have the numbers to share right now. Reduction of the budget of the Regulatory Office and the question of providing budget resources for the implementation of judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal. Here is an answer similar to that of Senator Stark: this was not discussed during the committee meeting. So these are for the Minister's question. So many answers to the questions I've received so far.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u31	Thank you very much. Senator Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. As a reminder, Mr President, it is the senator who is called Sztark, not Stark, from Germany. Yeah, well... [[Thank you very much for the correction.]] I have a question about the health department. The bill on the Agency for Medical Research, an institution otherwise needed, but described in a somewhat controversial way, is being examined. As a result, the project went to the Sejm Sub-Committee, during which Minister Cieszyński assured that the funds for the establishment of this agency of PLN 50 million, as stated in the draft law, were secured. I'd like to ask... Mr President doesn't have to answer now, because I guess it wasn't discussed at the committee meeting. But I don't see it in the health department's budget records. Are these measures, are they, in fact, going to be taken from any other resort or from the general reserve? Because they're not in health positions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u33	Mr. Senator Spokesperson.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u34	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a rather general question about agricultural expenditure. We have heard so many good words from the Prime Minister here about this budget and the state's financial situation, but this is not seen in the assumptions or in the budget for agricultural expenditure, because these expenditures, compared to expenditure in 2018, are less, and this is a constant trend in recent years, the percentage of agricultural expenditure is steadily decreasing. As a result, farmers are as if they did not benefit from the fruitage of economic growth and financial well-being. What is the cause of this? We see that the prices of agricultural products on the market have remained at similar levels for many years, i.e. if we look at the real world, it is that farmers' incomes are falling. Social transfer to the country is growing slightly, but unfortunately the situation is not the best from the agricultural point of view. What is the reason why agriculture is systematically treated in such a way that these expenditures are steadily decreasing in relation to the entire budget? Thank you. [[Is there going to be another question or am I supposed to answer?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u35	I don't have any calls yet. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u36	Oh, thank you very much. In that case, I'll answer. I answer Senator Grodzki's question. As you predicted, we did not discuss this during the meeting, and therefore you can give a detailed response to the Minister in your speech. As far as the issue of agricultural expenditure is concerned, I would like to remind you that it has increased significantly in 2017. The expenditure of the state budget for the Agriculture and Hunting Department in 2017 amounted to 7 billion 453 million, i.e. almost 7.5 billion in 2017. At that time, there was a very significant increase compared to spending in 2016, when there were 6 billion 922 million. In 2018, there was a drop to 5 billion 131 million in this year's budget. Up to 4 billion 895 million. The committee... [[So half the finance...]] The Committee on Agriculture gave an opinion on the budget without proposing amendments. At the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, this issue was not discussed in detail. I gave you these numbers. So we're dealing with some fluctuations here. Because in 2015, we have 7.8 billion, in 2016, 6.9 billion, in 2017. Almost 7.5 billion in 2018, 5.1 billion, now 4.8 billion. Perhaps we are dealing with fluctuations resulting from the implementation of EU programmes, and there are cycles, so there is an important justification for this. But the details were not discussed during the meeting, so I, by providing this information about numbers, how they are fluctuating and of the probable reason for this, leave a reply to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u37	Thank you very much. I don't see any more... Oh, Senator Florek. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u38	Thank you. Mr. Senator, this is a very difficult, critical situation. This is what we talked about last year, and this year it's been repeated. As regards regional clearing houses. Every year about 100 employees leave, more than 100 have left last year, about 100 this year. At 1,000 274 jobs every year, there's a loss. There are problems with recruitment, because the tasks that the Regional Chamber has to carry out are difficult. Therefore, the question is: did you discuss at the committee meeting why this year's budget for 2019 did not include funds to increase expenditure in terms of employees' salaries for the regional chamber?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u39	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u40	Thank you very much. This issue was raised in the question of one of the senators at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances, but the report of the local government committee does not contain any proposals for amendments. There is a proposal to adopt this part of the budget without amendments. The details of this matter were not discussed and, as I would point out, we have not been dealing with the proposal for an amendment. None of the senators had tabled an appropriate amendment during the sitting. The committee responsible did not make such an amendment either.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u41	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance shall be authorised to present the position of the Government in the course of parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? No. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see anyone willing... [[Mr. Senator Duda.]] Mr. Senator Duda. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u42	Thank you very much. When the Prime Minister was with us, Senator Augustyn asked a question about the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal on compensation for adult carers. I would like to ask, because I did not get such an answer at the meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, if there are secured funds for this purpose. Let me remind you that it is another year, and the gap between carers of children and carers of adults is shocking. So what I'm asking is, when are you gonna get that amount? She's not that big. And you will execute the judgment of the Court? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u43	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u44	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr. Senator! The Prime Minister mentioned various activities that are aimed at people with disabilities. I'm not gonna say it again. As far as the Court's judgment is concerned, the Prime Minister set up a special team working on new solutions. This requires, firstly, legislative changes, secondly, changes in case law. As far as I know, the team has presented a report of their actions, a report. This report is being analyzed now. Proposals in this area will, as far as I know, be presented in due time by the government. As far as compensation is concerned, so far there have been no final judgments in this regard. If that's the case, then of course... In the special reserve of the State budget, commitment appropriations are provided. But, as I say, there haven't been any final judgments yet. That's all I can say. [[Mr. Marshal, may I ask you a question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u45	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u46	Minister, the sentences are because people win in the courts... [[Recently in Poznań.]] For example. So you're wrong to say there are no judgments in this regard. But I'm talking about a systemic solution, not an investigation of your rights through legal issues. The Prime Minister hasn't answered Senator Augustine's question, and you haven't answered whether there are measures. That's all I'm interested in. In order to comply with the judgment of the Constitutional Court, to which the Members of the Court of Justice made a notification in this regard.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u47	I can repeat what I said. Since there are no legislative changes proposed yet and as regards the case law which is the consequence of the work of the team that I have been talking about, these measures are not yet explicitly indicated in the Act. If necessary, if such solutions are presented, we will of course be wondering in the Council of Ministers and in the course of legislative work, why these measures... Because there's a general reserve, and there's a reserve, like I said, for commitments due. And we'll also see when it's presented during the year. Because, as Senator Bierecki said, of course, there are opportunities to reclassify funds from other reserves as the state budget is implemented.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u48	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u49	Minister, well, you didn't answer me. Because I wanted a quick answer: there are resources for execution, or there isn't. There isn't, let's just say. They're not booked at the moment, they're not scheduled. Another question, if I may. Do you have any idea in what proportion the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities will be financed? [[Yeah, without a bill?]] As you remember, it's going to be a target amount... or, if you don't remember, I'll remind you: 652 million zlotys. And this amount is to be made up of the Labour Fund and of what Prime Minister Morawiecki also said, namely 4% tax on the richest, i.e. those who earn more than PLN 1 million. But what proportion is that? 'Cause it's a little bit of a money heist from the Labor Fund. Because, as far as I know, the Labour Fund provides two-thirds of the funds, if not, to improve me, will be used to fill this solidarity fund. Can you confirm that? Or is there any other knowledge about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u50	As far as the current year is concerned, here are only the resources from the Labour Fund, because solidarity contributions will only be paid next year after the tax year has been settled. And it's gonna be more or less... Well, as it is now about PLN 647 million from the Labour Fund, in terms of solidarity tribute, it will be about PLN 1 billion 150 million, PLN 1 billion 200 million. [[A billion?]] Yeah, a billion.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u51	Thank you very much. Senator Shark.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, you probably were when I asked a question about those municipalities that are currently threatened by the commissar's board, and at best they already have a recovery programme in place because we have introduced... no, amendments to the Renewable Energy Act have been introduced. And as a result of this community... e.g. the municipality of Karlino, with me, only in connection with these sources suffered losses of over PLN 3 million. Unfortunately, due to this wealth, the municipality lost the opportunity... and was obliged to return the so-called "state budget." Janosic, 0.5 million. In this situation, after reducing all possible expenditure, the municipality is in a tragic situation, and it also has a corrective programme in place. And that concerns most of the municipalities, because how do you... I come from areas where it's close to the sea, so they're fashionable there... maybe not fashionable, but the communes with windmills are a lot. In short, are you expecting some kind of monitoring... Because we have received here an undertaking from the Minister of Energy that negotiations will be undertaken, talks with the municipalities to allow for some gentle passage, so that these municipalities can survive this period and somehow make this repayment. Tell me if there's any work going on. Do you keep an eye on these changes? Because these situations are really tragic. And are you planning to make some changes in this regard so that these local governments will survive? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Ministry of Finance knows this case. I, too, know the situation of the municipality of Karlino, who wrote a letter to the government on this matter. The situation is very complicated. Indeed, the law introduced changes in the definition of real estate within a year, which in turn resulted in tax changes, and there was some confusion about the budgets of local governments, of course, especially those that have wind farms on their territory. This was also partly discussed in the Joint Government and Territorial Government Commission. We have also undertaken work with the Ministry of Energy. It is so complicated that we do not yet have complete data on all the financial consequences that would possibly be involved. This is also the case, as the senator said, with the conversion of the contributions under the correction and equalisation system, because in the previous years these municipalities had increased resources due to the entry into force of this original law. Like I said, work is on. I know this has to end pretty soon. We are aware that there is a problem in local governments, but it still takes time to solve this problem. It is so complicated that we are still analyzing it, but I think that some solution will be presented in the near future. I can't yet tell you exactly what it's going to be like, what the financial consequences will be, and what kind of system could possibly be proposed, to make sure that, as the senator said, The local authorities went through this period more gently, but I repeat: we know this case. [[Mr. Marshal, just one question. Okay?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u54	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u55	Minister, can I tell you, then, that you have this on the agenda? For this is a truly tragic situation. Is there gonna be some sort of settlement?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u56	We have this on the agenda, all the more so because, as I said, the Joint Committee on Government and Territorial Self-Government, as well as the financial team, as far as energy is concerned, have been leaning on this initially. Well, here we really need to work out a solution, of course, together with the Ministry of Energy.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u57	Senator Grodzki. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Except I have a question for the health department. Maybe I'll wait until the Minister finishes his financials.]] Good. Are there any more questions for the finance department? Mr. Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u58	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I'd like to ask you a question like that. She's kind of referring to what we said yesterday at the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. I asked there a question about how it would be financed by reducing electricity prices to the level that the law provides. Of course, the Minister explained it there, but a large part of it will in principle be financed by non-budget funds. I would like to ask here more generally, because we, when considering the budget, consider various parts of it, revenue, expenditure, but a large proportion of the state budget or state resources is outside the budget, in various kinds of funds that we do not adopt here. Would you mind replacing them and telling me what kind of amount that is? Is there any estimate of her? Do you know what it looks like, what the amounts are? I would also like to ask you about a more detailed question concerning the road fund. How much does this road fund increase in relation to previous years? What did it look like over the years? The point is to see if there's any road investments... I'm not talking about local roads, because there's this big amount, i.e. 6 billion PLN, only this basic road fund, thanks to which highways, expressways, etc. are built. The third is a question about the fund in the task force. He has always been presented, for years, and at our committee meetings, and in the Senate, in plenary; he was an integral part of the state budget. This year there is no such thing, there was no information at all about the budget in the task force. Did you give up on him completely? Has this presentation been discontinued? Because despite bigger or smaller problems, for many years the entire budget has been tried to present in this way. And the Minister of Finance has always presented the budget in the task force, thinking that this is actually the right thing to do. As I recall, yesterday at the committee meeting, he presented the presentation of this budget as a task force. Only Mr Kwiatkowski of the Supreme Audit Chamber, and the other ministers presented it in a traditional way, saying how much is available for current expenditure, for investments, etc., etc. Does this mean you're leaving this idea, this initiative? Because she seemed to be, and it's like I'm going to say, regardless of political views... presenting the budget in this task force seems better because it shows some of the goals that you set for yourself in the long term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As far as the task budget is concerned, I've already told you about the budget. It is he, the senators you have received the budget in this arrangement together with the budget in the traditional arrangement. He's been limited at some point, but he's still in this system for functions and tasks. And as for the future of this budget, as I said... [[But it wasn't presented.]] It was presented. [[At the committee meeting or...]] As far as I know, he wasn't presented in the sense that he wasn't... I mean, let me say this: this agreement was not on the committee's agenda, which is from this side it was not presented, but the state... [[As a document, it exists.]] As a document, yes. And what President Kwiatkowski said was referring to this document. So that's the document. However, as I said before, work is being done at the Ministry of Finance. A general public finance reform project has been created and, above all, a fiscal reform, the first of which is to amend the budget note and change the deadlines for preparing the budget. In this first respect, we are introducing regulations that are slightly accelerating the budgetary process so that we can know more about the budget for the following year closer to the beginning of the previous year. One element of this reform is the revision of the budgetary classification, which is directly linked to the task budget. In fact, we kind of have two classifications here, i.e. just one task which presents the directions of certain operations, and this traditional classification, which, as we see now, as we see it after many years, during which it functions, does not give us a clear and transparent picture of what is happening in the state budget. We would not want them to function side by side, as it has been so far, in fact 2 budgets, we would like to consolidate the traditional budget and the task budget. This is mainly due to the consolidation of this classification, i.e. a picture of the directions to which the funds are allocated. And that's what we're working on. So we don't give up on it. But we want to integrate it in such a way that the current classification... Because she's a little mixed up, and the subject, and the subject matter, there's a lot of resources in chapters covering different types of settlements, and then it's not entirely clear what these funds are actually spent on. In turn, this task budget is built on the basis of functions and tasks, which are currently somewhat incompatible. So that we want to consolidate... [[And what has been done in the last three years in this case?]] For some time now, they've been... what I'm talking about, which means this reform project has been running for about a year. We first focused on what I was talking about, i.e. the deadlines for materials prepared by individual directors and on the subject of the multiannual budget, the multiannual financial framework. At the same time, teams are working on, among others. the budgetary classification, but we started with this first issue. So that the work goes on. The effects of these actions will be visible, I hope, in a short time, but it will take a while. In any case, we do not give up the task budget as such, maybe we give up a little bit of the fact that it works as a separate document, which is not entirely compatible with the traditional classification. As far as road infrastructure expenditure in the national road construction programme is concerned, these expenditures are as follows: in 2015 it was PLN 11.5 billion, in 2016 PLN 15.7 billion, in 2017 PLN 16.1 billion and in 2018 PLN 18 billion. In the draft budget law it is over PLN 19.3 billion. This is what the road fund and the expenditure of the state budget on roads are together. Referring immediately to this question which the senator asked the Prime Minister, I would like to confirm in greater detail what the Prime Minister was talking about. Well, the road S6 is being built, and it is currently 141 km away. Actually, it's eight episodes. Seven episodes are planned for this year. This road is built from the side of Gdynia, Gdynia, Godopole, in the implementation there is a 41-kilometer section, and there are 3 sections. And here the completion of the construction is expected to take place around 2021. So that all this work is going on there, the construction of this road has not been stopped. As for this more general question of the senator, here we are talking about the budget, and some of the resources are elsewhere... That's actually a big part of the money. The budget law covers less than half of the expenditure of the public finance sector, the general government sector, because the expenditure of this sector is PLN 961 billion, which of course includes self-government expenditure, and expenditure of funds, and expenditure of individual agencies, etc. In these expenses, in these 961 billions, 400 billion are budget expenditures, exactly PLN 416 billion. That's pretty much how it goes down. Of course, part of this expenditure is included in the Budget Act under the draft financial plans of individual funds, but not all, and the Budget Act does not cover such an important scope of the public finance sector as the expenditure of local government units. So that's pretty much what these proportions look like. Thank you. [[What's the amount?]] That's over 250 billion, if I'm aware.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u60	Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u61	Mr. Marshal! Minister! We have received 2 opinions on the budget commissioned by the Senate Office. Did the Minister have a chance to get acquainted with them? I'm gonna say this thing. Here in one part, only this part I ask, it is shown that the Treasury's debt in 2015 amounted to 139 billion, and the planned for 2019 amounts to almost 163 billion. I'm not talking about cheating. This is an opinion on the efficiency of the collection. Please tell me what this increase in the State Treasury's debts, which have not been repaid by various types of danins, mainly taxes, results from.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u62	I will not give the exact data here, but, of course, the increase in the detection of tax offences or tax delinquency translates into an increase in the amount of debt vis-à-vis the state budget. If these are charges that are easily collected, then they are collected, and if in large part... In fact, every year we are dealing with the problem of presentation of debts, because this is largely due to the proper functioning of control bodies. Where it can't be downloaded, it's due... I mean, where it's detected, there's a charge, and if it can't be recovered, it's growing. First of all, that's what I'm talking about. [[Mr. Marshal, may I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u63	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u64	Mr. Marshal! Minister! However, I will recall this sentence and ask the Minister to comment on it, because maybe those who give opinions about what you have received from you... They didn't create it on any other basis, they created data from the Ministry of Finance and statistical data. This is an increase in debt from 140 billion to 162 billion. Here's the sentence: high detection of fraud What the Minister was talking about. It does not translate into the recovery of amounts due to taxes. Could you tell the Minister what you think is the main reason why these funds are not recovered? That's an increase of 40 billion in three years. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Tomasz Robaczyński: This is...]] Sorry, just one more sentence. Here are the percentages and amounts recovered in previous years. The authors show that the value and percentage, and the absolute amounts recovered, are not increasing.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u65	What the senator says confirms what I said. If the detection is increased, the amounts increase. And depending on which entity this charge is detected, or we can collect it and these charges fall or the receivable is reduced and it is not present, or they are entities that... or any complicated fraud, when it is not known which entity or entities is no longer in existence, have ceased their activities, or the tax authorities are unable to enforce these funds for various reasons, and then these charges are increasing. The more in the market there are mechanisms that create... in which entities that do not have their own assets or in which they are called. poles, or in which they are used for certain tax frauds, the more charges will be unpaid and the more they will simply be. And because there's a lot of this kind of... tax fraud is obviously very, if you say so, sublime and their creators take into account that if you detect a whole chain of entities... Well, then it turns out that these entities suddenly don't exist, either they're dead bodies, or they're entities that don't have any assets... Therefore, the high detection rate of such offences translates directly into an increase in unpaid debts, because they will still be hanging somewhere until they are released in the course of the proceedings. Thank you. [[One more question, Mr. Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u66	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u67	Minister, you explained the mechanism, which is obvious, but okay, it's also worth knowing what the mechanism is: the more detection, the probably more due This is how this mechanism can be described. But I'm going somewhere else. Do you see any field of action for the Minister, mainly, as I understand it, for the financial services, for the KAS or other services related to the kind of prejudice that the Minister was talking about... Do we just take it so that we can detect it more, we don't take it off and we take it as an axiom, or do we have any idea?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u68	Dear Senator, the ideas are basically based on all these projects, all these collection activities, such as reporting tax schemes. Part of these activities of the Ministry of Finance or the Treasury is targeted strictly to detect the crimes themselves, but some of these actions, as I say, are preventive actions, i.e. Some of these actions aim to ensure that there are no tax infringements at present. These actions are of course important, they are being carried out, but it is difficult to prevent an increase in the amount of debt if you... That is to say, it can be countered by the prevention of tax fraud at all, and that is what is happening. However, it is difficult to counteract irrecoverability if the detection of precisely such entities as I have mentioned is increased, the entities from which debt cannot be recovered. Well, it's either gonna come up or it's not gonna come up. If it is detected and cannot be recovered from this entity, of course this debt increases. It's hard here... 'cause you'd have to drive... Because it would really lead to the fact that checks should be directed primarily where we know that the charge is chargeable. Yes? It's kind of like that. And where we know she's irresistible, we'd prevent the creation of the debt and the unrecoverability of it. Well, that would lead to that. [[Mr. Marshal, one last question, I hope.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u69	You promise the senator? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u70	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Speaking of classics, I suggest you don't go that last way, 'cause I think... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Tomasz Robaczyński: Neither would we.]] Yes. I'm not in that direction... I'm just saying, that's the kind of thing I'd like to suggest. I do not expect the Minister to solve the problem that arises today, because he arises in absolute numbers. What I'm saying is that these sealing elements that started with the previous ruling crew, and the state has developed them, and this cheatability is clearly improving... There is a problem with the increase in the amount payable to the Treasury of various types of entities. I'm suggesting it's worth thinking about, because the criminal world is very fast when it comes to change. And what we think today is we've sealed forever... I'd like to suggest, Minister, that probably not. And that's why I'm paying attention. What also the authors of this opinion say that it is worth paying attention That with a large collection, the claims on the State Treasury are increased. So maybe it's worth thinking about in the future. Well, maybe it has to be, I don't know. But wouldn't it be worth considering this problem in terms of different types of actions? I don't expect an answer. That is such a suggestion to the Minister in this regard.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u71	Of course, I accept this suggestion. I would still like to say that there is a representative of the Board of National Tax Administration in the Chamber, and perhaps, after my reply, he would like to add a few more words about what the senator was asking about.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u72	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u73	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I'd like to ask you something like that. It is also important from the point of view of the state budget. Well, it's common knowledge. 'Cause it's often the state you serve. What was the VAT gap during the Civil Platform and the PSL. And I would like to ask what is the VAT gap that you estimate right now. That's for 2018 and 2017.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u74	I can't answer that question right now. This is presented in the update of the convergence programme. I'd have to check on him. That's where the estimates are. In 2017, it was probably a 14-percent gap estimated by us. [[What is the sum of the sum?]] I can't say... [[There are no further questions for the Minister. Thank you very much. I'd like to invite a representative...]] [[The Minister hasn't answered yet, he was just wondering.]] I don't want to throw money because I can't... [[When it comes to how much money goes down in the days of the Platform, everything is clear and classic. And when I ask what the gap is in these days, everyone always thinks. Yes? And that's the problem they're wondering about and so on. And so to say... I thought it was just a known matter, because it's kind of the most important thing, because it's always the subject of a public debate.]] If I may send the senator back to update the convergence programme... There it is, and... [[It'll turn up.]] Thank you. [[For 2018 and 2017, right?]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u75	Are there any more questions for the Minister? Yes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u76	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! One question about our position as regards social expenses. We're in first place, but there was another category in Oxfam's ranking. In total, there were three It is related to the spread of taxes. And we were probably only there in the second hundred, I think it was number 113. I'd ask you to explain to me if we're gonna be doing anything about it. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Tomasz Robaczyński: About dissection, once again, if...]] One of the criteria was taxation, how progressive taxes are, simply how they affect the levelling of social differences. In this we were only in the second hundred, specifically this place 114.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u77	There are mechanisms that have been put in place, whether it's an increase in the amount of free money or other actions that... Many of these activities were aimed primarily at entrepreneurs. The tax system is, of course, constantly changing and changing. It is now difficult for me to say about some concrete actions that will seek to bridge the tax gap. There is still work on the new tax administration and on issues related to changes in VAT relating to matrix changes, so that tax activities are being undertaken at the Ministry of Finance all the time. Here I cannot say to what extent action is now being taken to bridge these differences.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u78	Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u79	I think there's one thing missing from a lot of positive information about the budget. .. these positive comparative data. You told Prime Minister Morawiecki that we have the best growth rates, dynamics, that debt... How many European Union countries have a zero deficit or even a budget surplus? [[I think it's 16.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u80	If I remember correctly, it's about 15, but... [[Greece has zero and it's sinking.]] ...it's not exactly a good parameter. Of course, he shows that the country is in good condition, but... as the senator says, one such country is Greece. How do we compare ourselves to those countries that we want to compare to? To France or Germany or Spain We'll find out we're in a good position. We are ahead of countries such as Greece and Germany, but also small countries: Malta, it seems, Cyprus... [[Slovakia.]] Well, these are countries of incomparable economic size. The most important thing is to be able to pay off your debt. As the Prime Minister said, this position of ours, in terms of debt recovery, is improving because debt is decreasing compared to GDP. It is also important to fulfill Of course, this is important from the point of view of the Minister of Finance, but also on a larger scale, because of the long-term sustainability of the financial sector and the budget, the conditions that the European Commission puts before us, i.e. to remain below this reference deficit level and generally to reduce the expenditure of the public finance sector, to reduce the structural deficit. And it's happening. The comparison between European countries is not quite... It is, of course, very tempting, but these economies are not comparable, because we have e.g. a lower deficit than France, but higher than Germany, and it is difficult to say what this results from. That's just the way it is. [[Mr. Marshal, may I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u81	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u82	For the sake of some explanation, especially for the Minister and an expert in theology law, Senator Ryszka. The point is that Greece is sinking. Japan has 200% of public debt and is the most attractive financially in terms of bonds issued. [[That's why these comparisons don't make sense.]] He gets a lot of money for it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u83	Well, of course... Such, let's say, comparisons of one parameter probably make little sense, because much depends on the structure of debt, on the attractiveness of the country, etc., etc. That's what it looks like.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u84	Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u85	Minister, then let's look at another parameter, if you say it's difficult here. I mean what the Prime Minister said about the share of investment in GDP. We know that there are such countries... Ireland seems to be 29%, the Czech Republic has 25%, and there are probably more than 20% in the Union. The Prime Minister promised that in Poland this share would be 25%. I would like to know what the percentage of investment in GDP is right now, because from the press releases, from what I've read, it's the lowest in 20 years, and yet it's one of the important parameters you've been talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u86	As I recall, the level of investment in relation to GDP is roughly over 17%, while it is still... That was 17.9%. in the third quarter of 2018 and 17.6% in the previous year. So it's slow, but it's growing. In the third quarter of 2018, private investment increased by 9.9%. so that the upward trend is visible here. Perhaps it doesn't grow as much as we would like, but growth is visible from year to year. I hope this holds up.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u87	Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u88	There was a conversation with the Prime Minister about public debt, but those numbers were changing. Therefore, I would like to get your answer to the question: are commitments to pensioners for the coming years, amounting to PLN 380 billion, constitute a public debt, or can I say, suspend them on the ear?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u89	They will constitute a public debt when it is necessary to implement them. I understand that in a situation where we have to finance or finance this kind of action from the budget, it's like it's going to be part of the debt. This will be the case if the state budget is unable to provide adequate funding for this. That's all I can say.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u90	I'm sorry. Prime Minister Morawiecki's debt of OFE included as VAT and thus increased the debt of the previous team. Maybe he was right. But the debt that you've already had after the liquidation or expiry of the OFE doesn't count...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u91	Well, it's kind of called. It's a hidden debt. I mean, there's gonna be contributions. Yes? The deficit value will be set or surplus The balance of the state budget, the whole of what will ultimately have to be paid. If it is necessary to pay it in public debt, yes, and if it is not, then no. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u92	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I now invite the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mr. Paweł Cybulski. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Oh, no, I'm sorry... [[Voice from the Chamber: Deputy Minister of Finance, National Tax Administration...]] Excuse me. Minister Cybulski, Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Finance, will complete the answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u93	Yes. I would like in addition to the answer to Senator Czarnobaj's request, as the one who represents together with his ministers, along with his boss, Marian Banas and Minister Walczak... I'd just like to respond to the doubts that have arisen in the courtroom. First of all, I would like to say that the National Tax Administration is very determined to fight the grey zone. We'll do it consistently. This determination and this job are making up for... we need to make up for a lot of what we've been doing so far. We know that the consolidation of the tax services took place on 1 March 2017. We still have a decline from our UKS colleagues or from the tax authorities, because these colleagues often attributed decisions to the article. 108 on the poles. Your statistics are historical statistics As a result of the execution, it shows a certain effect that has occurred as a result of previous checks, earlier decisions and all tax proceedings that have taken place in relation to unfair taxpayers. As I said, as a result, many decisions were made in the article. 108. At the moment, we are in a situation where we are trying to collect these debts, very consistently implementing tax legislation. Like I said, it's a thing of the past. ♪ decisions ♪ whether the checks which concerned past years, past years. The execution is now under way. It turns out, however, that in many situations they are ineffective, because the previous actions were ineffective. This is the consequence of bad policies, bad actions by tax authorities that have been in the past years. At the moment, we are improving this, we are determined and, of course, these suggestions that you are talking about, the Senator, we accept as much as possible. That's not enough, we accept it, and we realize it. I would like to say that in a short time we will want to announce the Mazowieckie voivodship as the first voivodship free of tax carousels. I hope that we will be able to do this very soon, for example, to improve the sphere of business activity. The point is that companies can breathe better, with cleaner air, so that they can move safer in the business sphere, so that these companies don't have to have as much control as they've had so far. We know that these controls are less, as the Prime Minister said, but we want the number of these controls to be minimal, so that they are only carried out in stress situations, difficult situations, extremely difficult when dealing with entities that have already declared that they will not account for taxes in Poland at all. So here the situation is very clear. Our strategy is very clear and we will certainly not have an escalation of tax arrears in the near future, as we will want to avoid any fictitious arrears in the early stages of the liquidation of the carousel, namely the liquidation of the organisers of these carousels. So much for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u94	Thank you very much, Minister. And now we invite Mr. Gadomski, Deputy Minister of Health. The question will be asked by Senator Grodzki. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I will develop this question that I have asked Mr Bierecki about the Medical Research Agency. Well, I understand that the bill is still at the procession stage, but your colleague, Minister Cieszyński, has testified that the funds are already secured. I would like to get an answer whether you confirm this, or only after the bill is passed will the reserve from other sources be activated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u96	Dear Marshal, Mr. Senator! Of course, due to the fact that the law is being prosecuted, we do not yet know the final date for its entry into force or the date for the launch of the agency. Well, in fact, we also do not know the final amount needed for 2019. The amount of PLN 50 million was founded, but there is nothing to hide that the deadline for launching the agency will also determine the final amount for this purpose. Due to the nature of these legislative work, this amount is obviously not directly included in the Budget Act today, but it should be noted that in Part 83 of the Special Reserves, item 1. The health mission appropriation, the Minister of Health, has a reserve of almost PLN 300 million. And we assume that the funds of this part, from this position, will be assigned to the Medical Research Agency.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u97	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Sławomir Gadomski: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to remind you that in discussions on the budget bill, senators are not allowed to submit applications to reject the bill. Please take the floor of Senator Kleina.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u98	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We proceed with the adoption of the 2019 budget. As usual, the Budget Act is one of the most important laws, and in my opinion it is the most important law that Parliament adopts during the year. It is this law that decides which programmes, which priorities will be implemented in the coming year. The Budget Act always talks about certain directions in which we would like to follow. Of course, it is the same with this bill that we are discussing today. Well, yesterday we had the opportunity to discuss this bill at the meeting of the budget committee. This budget bill for the coming year shows very many positive trends. It shows that the state budget will indeed be once again more For many years, it has increased from year to year. And this shows that Poland, over the course of this time, while I am observing it in Parliament, is trying to be a richer, wealthier country every year, and, I hope, better managed in the financial sense. The Prime Minister said today that last year we joined the 25 most developed countries in the world. This decision... this information makes us all happy because it shows that consistently, for many years, all those who ruled Poland in the past, and those who rule today, have led us to the fact that this economic development is constantly accompanied by us. Economic development, this economic growth is and has been Poland also participated in those times, when the whole of Europe or much of the world was in a very serious crisis. At that time, Poland as one of the few countries, or perhaps even as the only country in the European Union, could always have a positive economic growth, an increase in budget revenue. These were difficult years, those years after 2008, when we all here in Parliament feared that there could be different scenarios, even such as that. in Latvia, where within one year it was decided to reduce salaries and reduce pensions by 30%. We have happily never experienced this and have been able to pass through the most difficult moments that have affected the world economy. Today, the Polish economy benefits from this good economic situation, which is the share of the European and global economy. But today, too, the Prime Minister has announced that these good times or very good times are slowly ending and that 2019 will be a more difficult year than the previous years in terms of the level of economic development. It's a good thing everyone here realizes that. Well, premier, it's obvious. When responsible for matters of the utmost importance, he must be aware of this in an extraordinary way. But I think I've been working on this budget and working on these things for many years. A lot of us here are senators. Not the first term, after all. We also see that certain things are presented in a way that is at least questionable. This is today's speech by the Prime Minister, which shows this perfect economic situation in which we are... If he touches it deeper, it turns out that there is a lot of this unfortunately such demagogy or simply not true. I have asked the Prime Minister quite a few questions and the answer to such a small question is whether we are telling the truth, or rather we are filming the truth, so that to the end... it will always turn out to be mine. I asked for an expressway six. And here it is presented in such a way that everything is very good, that everything is moving forward, that we spend money, that the investment is still being realized. Of course, in everything the Prime Minister said is true. It is true that the investment, as far as the road from Szczecin to Koszalin is concerned, is carried out. It's true. It was a project that was started. The tenders have been announced. They entered the construction site even during the previous government in 2015, probably even in 2014, although... certainly in 2015. And this section of the road was then contracted. And the mistake of our government or our administration was then that the tender for the section from Gdansk to Koszalin was not settled until the end, because it was assumed that this decision should be the decision of the next government. The tender has been announced. The money for that was guaranteed. The road was number six on the priority list. So? What was the decision, what was the first decision then? It was to stop this investment on the pretext that there was no money for it. If there is no means, then of course I am able to understand it, but it turns out that in other places the means were. The construction of this road has been stopped. Only this year, in January or February, or even in March... last autumn a contract was signed for the construction of a fragment of the road, a short fragment of the road just from Gdynia to God's field. But the essential part of this road is from God's field, from Lębork, despite repeated requests, translations, explanations, repeated promises have been stopped. It is said that it will be implemented in the form of a public-private partnership. I don't want to explain all this, I just want to tell you how you can manipulate the facts about economic matters, about budget matters, etc. Well, when we speak so falsely and with the Prime Minister's mouth, then everything is... etc. Today, the Prime Minister has made a huge success of the fact that public sector wages have been unfrozen and that this frostbite will amount to 2.3%. And it says it hasn't been done in years. No, 2.3%. this is below the inflation level forecast by the National Bank of Poland, because he says that inflation this year will be 2.5%. The government proposal is 2.3%, so even if it really is 2.3%, it's a 2.3% frostbite. wages mean only that wages are not touched. Well, that's how you read it. Here the Prime Minister continues to say that, after all, in some sectors, increases will be greater and in some sectors smaller. Well, if the average is 2.3%, it only means that in many industries there will be a real reduction in wages. Well, comparing it to the days of the Civic Platform with such a shame that in our day these wages were not raised... Back then, some were raised, some weren't, but they were frozen, that's true. However, at what level was inflation at that time? As I said, what the Prime Minister also confirmed, in two years there was a deflation, but as a rule inflation was at a level near zero. Well, let's make it bad in our day. Now that you insist on it, it's hard to say, but please tell me how things really are today. Another budget issue, so fundamental. Of course, as a matter of principle... This is the right principle when creating the state budget that revenue is included in the budget law as a minimum income, assuming that it can be achieved more, and is generally higher. However, as expenditure, the maximum expenditure that can be spent in individual parts of the budget is given. As a rule, it is. It's generally the right thing to do, and I support it. I think it should be this way that you can't plan any more and then at the end of the year ask: what happened to all this? It's just that you have to have some moderation in all of this. It was yesterday at the committee meeting that I drew attention to a matter, you can say, small, but it also shows that it is all, so to speak, twisted and unbelievable. As you know, we have adopted a law on energy prices in recent days. We have intervened many times here in the Senate, we have asked, we have monitored, we have talked about the fact that the price of energy is rising, and it is at such a rate that entrepreneurs in particular ask what is going on, because they get contracts for the next year taking into account the rise in energy prices above 40%. Finally, this law, which says that there will be no increase in energy prices, has been adopted, and entrepreneurs will get the price that was, under the previous conditions. No one has yet received new contracts, and it is the end of January, but the bill states that by the end of March, so we will see how it will be. In any case, one of the costs of this whole operation is to reduce excise duty by PLN 1 billion 800 million, if I remember correctly. So, yesterday, I ask you: did you make an amendment to your income by presenting the budget in the Sejm? Well, the loss in excise duty of PLN 1 billion 800 million is a loss of significant amount, it is not, if you look from the budget point of view, some PLN 100 million, but it is almost PLN 2 billion. This is what the minister says: no, we have done nothing here, we assume that, regardless of this year's excise income will be at the level... if I remember correctly, the amount of PLN 28 billion has fallen. Well, I say, gentlemen, how is that possible? How do we plan this budget, if one and a half billion in this way or this way simply doesn't matter? This undermines confidence in working on the state budget. And it would be desirable, however, that every amount that is included in the budget be a real amount, that it actually talks about development, that it talk about those issues that concern our functioning. Unfortunately, that's not what's happening. But I don't think that's the case, because the budget should be at such a precise and predictable level that this issue doesn't raise any doubts. And that's it. Oh, one more sentence. I have to go back... [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]] [[But the last one.]] Mr. Marshal, last sentence. That'll be two sentences, but short. I keep going back to the VAT issue with the stubbornness of a bigger case. VAT is the basic income of the state budget. And while you're talking, the Prime Minister also spoke today. And that's a lack of integrity in talking about these things. It's about a single control file as a way to close the gap, because that's how the budget gap went down, and when you say, we did it... But here it is worth to return to the fact that this law on a single control file was passed in the days of the Civic Platform government, in opposition to Law and Justice. The same is true with reversed VAT. Ladies and gentlemen, it's just elementary honesty that requires... [[You're gonna have to stop now.]] When you talk about things like that And these are budgetary matters, please say what the matter is. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u99	Thank you, Senator. The floor will be taken by Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u100	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to table an amendment on the return of funds to the European Solidarity Centre, reduced from 7 million 146 000 to 4 million by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Culture, Mr Glinski. I mean, it's not a big sum, it's not a big sum, but it's a symbolic sum. The European Solidarity Centre is also a museum institution, and a cultural institution that plays a very important role for Gdańsk, the Tricity, but also for the whole country, because people from all over the country come to be there to participate in various events, initiatives, but also to watch an exhibition that talks about an important part of our history. He talks about how we came to freedom, he talks about the opposition. Only a few. In Poland, he talks about how this movement was created. So he also talks about the labour and intelligence movement, which began in August 1980 with the strike in Gdańsk Shipyard. The European Solidarity Centre was built on the former territory of Gdańsk Shipyard for a large amount of money of the European Union and the city of Gdańsk. And if we are presuming that Europe can only see the fall of the Berlin Wall and thinks that this is where the changes in this part of Europe began, then we should support this European Solidarity Centre It is also visited by tourists from the West, from Germany, Scandinavia, but also from Kaliningrad. And we should create good opportunities for him to operate in all dimensions, not just in the exhibition dimension. For me, it is unacceptable to decide by the Deputy Prime Minister of the current government, who did not like the various elements of the European Solidarity Centre's operation or those which took place next to the centre or at the centre. This is to justify the decision to collect over PLN 3 million. In June, 29 June, Minister of Culture and Deputy Prime Minister in a letter to the Director of the ECS confirmed the sum of PLN 7 million 146 thousand and 800,000 transferred by ECS to the functioning of the historical health and safety centre, and 4 months later, on 25 October, he sent a letter indicating that this sum would be reduced to PLN 3 million 146 thousand. The letter was sent two months before the end of the year. The reduction 2 months before the end of the year of such a significant sum for this institution makes its functioning questionable. I wrote a senator's intervention on this subject, based on the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator, on 17 December I wrote to the Prime Minister. To this day, I have not received an answer, as did the ECS Council, which has decided to send a delegation to the Prime Minister to negotiate on this issue. In this delegation there was to be a vice-president of the union, the Bis, was to be Fox, Bogdan Lis, and was to be Frasyniuk. There's no answer to the request for a meeting. This is the treatment of this type, the treatment, you can say, per leg of those who want to save the European Solidarity Centre. This cut does not apply to the money that goes through the ECS to the Health and Safety Room, even though there were three party meetings, ONR reunions. So the fact that Adamowicz is making a statement there that he's going to run, that Walesa is making a statement because he has an office in ECS, he has an office there, and that's why he doesn't have a grant, and in this case nothing is a reason to react. We are in Gdańsk in a difficult situation. Two days before Adamowicz died, I spoke on the ECS board, which I am a member of, and President Adamowicz and I talked about this once again. I listen with interest to these declarations of calmness, of agreement. Then let my request for the return of the grant be treated as an attempt to reach an agreement. In words you can climb the highlands, you can talk about agreement and at the same time destroy the achievements of the one about him, about his accomplishments at the moment we all speak only well. The European Solidarity Centre was the idea and implementation of President Paweł Adamowicz from the beginning to the end. That is why I appeal to the High House: if you want to show that your words are worth anything and will be worth remembering, this is where the check is. I appeal to this part of the High House that always supports the government 'Cause he's connected to this government. But I hope that from time to time he will also decide according to his own conscience and his own analysis. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u101	Thank you, Senator, Mr. Marshal. Senator Klich will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u102	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The timing of the budgetary debate is also a time to reflect on the direction in which the government is headed in relation to the most important areas of social life. I do not know if everyone will agree, but I am convinced that the budget, as in the lens, is focused on the intentions of the rulers regarding which direction to accelerate and which direction to slow down. They also focus on strategic directions for the country's development and support for citizens. Finally, most importantly, the state budget is responsible to a large extent for the institutions, for the functioning of institutions which belong to the competence of the state, in this case our state, the Polish state. And that is why I am so anxious to see, together with my colleagues from the opposition, that this year's budget also lacks resources in an area which is absolutely strategic, in an area which is crucial for the future of our country and for the future of Poles and Poles, and here I am talking about education. We have repeatedly observed that the changes that have been introduced are so-called. education reform will have many negative consequences. Unfortunately, we were right. Unfortunately, we were right to keep teachers from leaving. Many experienced teachers have passed away. We warned against disorganizing the teaching process. We have made it clear that education reform can turn into a deformity, can turn into a disorganization. And that's what happened in the situation we've been seeing lately. Classes are more numerous, in many schools education is already taking place on 2 shifts. In many schools, also in the school my youngest son attends, there are no rooms available. We also said, also in this Chamber, that the victims will be Polish children, our children and grandchildren, in a situation where unfortunately the educational market is already internationalized and iron-plated, I would say, the absolute conditions of competition. In response, as I remember from the discussion about the law amending Polish education, we heard that the school in the 19th century was an invention of socialists. I hope I have correctly quoted a passage from one of my fellow senators. Well, school isn't a privilege. School A well-functioning school is the responsibility of the state. Because education is the responsibility of the state. And caring for equal opportunities for children is the country's job. No matter what country we find ourselves in, that's the job of every modern state. One is doing better with this task, the other is worse. We are convinced that in order for the Polish school to function better, responsibility must not be shed on teachers and local governments. Unfortunately, that's what happened recently. The Minister of Education washes his hands. The government believes that local governments should deal with the problem that was created by the government. Well, they can't handle it, they can't handle it, especially when there's a shortage of resources. And that's what the teachers' protests are about. It's no longer a situation... it's no longer a concern in the teaching community. It's boiling. And we need to be clear and clear: we are dealing with a bump in the teaching environment. In an environment that has a sense of responsibility for the tasks it carries out, it has a sense that the future of our children depends on a well-managed teaching. And this boiling should be treated as a signal, one of the most important signals in recent times. And from that boil, there should be lessons to be learned. Teachers should make more money. Teachers need to earn more if we are to require good teaching from them. Next line. Even Prime Minister Morawiecki is aware that there is a very dangerous accumulation of yearbooks in 2019, i.e. now, this year. And that this accumulation of yearbooks will result not only in overloaded, overcrowded schools, but also in the disorganization of the teaching process, and may even result in the fact that the yearbooks accumulated in the Polish school will leave this school with much less knowledge and worse preparation for further learning and for self-living. It also involves local problems. Because local governments can't cope with the problems that caused the deformity of education without increasing subsidies. Therefore, perhaps the most crucial issue in this budget would be to see these issues and increase the resources that should be passed on to the teacher's raises, to education subsidies and to support local governments, so that the problems created by the government can be solved more easily at the basic level, i.e. by local governments, by school management and by teachers themselves. I think that the amendment to the budget to increase the budget by PLN 4 billion for these three basic tasks, once again I will mention them, increases for teachers, support for local governments in particular in the context of the accumulation of yearbooks... I think that this amendment will be a test for ladies and senators in this House, as regards this year's budget, this amendment will be an exam for concern about Polish education. Therefore, on behalf of Senator Kazimierz Kleina and Senator Czarnobaj, I make an amendment on which the opinion is shared by the entire Civic Platform club. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u103	Thank you, Senator. Senator Rulewski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u104	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would say this budget is good. He must be good, because he is the election budget, the budget in which the power as the main budgetary parameter has put the election victory. And that's all about the budget. I notice that it is written in rhythm... or according to the electoral instructions, so it contains, because it must contain, a game of voting interests. And if so, there are privileged groups there, and there are groups that have been forgotten. Privileged groups, I understand, do not have to have defenders, but as a man of solidarity, I must take sides with these social groups. Contrary to what Prime Minister Morawiecki said, that the budget was consistent Who have been forgotten. I note here some phenomena from the government, which I believe is suffering from 2 diseases: preliminary amnesia and subsequent amnesia. Let's start with the story that's alive first. Preliminary amnesia is first of all forgetting the law. It's not something this government doesn't stand out... Maybe he won't even accept it as a criticism. I am thinking of the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 2014, in which the Constitutional Tribunal. yes, from the request of the senators and Members of the PIS, recognised the need to compensate for the benefits of those who deal with disabled children and those who deal with adults. This amnesia is already going on. It is easy to calculate 4 years, and if you do not accept our amendment in this respect, it will celebrate a round fifth anniversary. That's four years of PiS rule. That is why we are talking about the need to renew the reserve which was already foreseen for the implementation of this judgment in 2015. This is the 800 million, modestly, because at that time this debt has increased, among others. interest. In this case, we are in pain to compensate for this injury, and there is a need. All the more so since the opposite of amnesia is being done against other harms, and legislative action is galloping, e.g. to miners, when the laws are passed, taking into account court proceedings, in night mode, i.e. negative time. In this case, clocks walk differently, even stood for 2014. Preliminary amnesia is also forgetting that almost 800,000 officials in various institutions do not derive from income or economic and budgetary optimism of this law. At least for the last three years, when it turned out that as with a magic wand the budget swells us from efficiency, from economic growth. Employees employed in public finances, in ZUS, in inspections in voivodship offices, in the voivodship offices themselves, and especially in delegations of these offices in small towns, as if by the PiS unexpectedly forgotten, have had no increase for 9 or 10 years. The government says there's going to be a 2.7% increase. That's not true, because it's just gonna be the government's compensation. Well calculated, I hope. . inflation. So the effect will be zero. And it hurts me that at the same time, because of the elections, some groups fulfilling the same functions in the public administration, continuing to implement them on the basis of budgetary resources, are receiving increases. Not less than 5%, and not less than 5%. We're thinking about the prison administration, the civilian workers in the military, the judiciary, or the police. I don't mind this action happening, but the principle of justice... And the principle of kindness. After all, the Prime Minister said that there will be honored services that provide services to the population. And what is the work of the Veterinary Inspection, the State Labour Inspection or the employees, these ants, in the ZUS, like not performing social services? Unfortunately, the government forgot about them as part of this disease. Pre-amnesia. But it turns out it's not the only symptom. There is also a successor disease, and this is not just about the Prime Minister. I regret such an excellent figure of opposition, Minister Sellin, who originated from this heroic activity of the Coast, from Gdansk, that he started a huge dispute, not only financial, with the European Solidarity Centre. A card of those and present times. Because it's not just a museum, it's an institution that brings our genes of freedom to the future. Whoever wasn't there, come on in. This is an institution, which includes. without waiting for any initiatives, she took part in the election celebration on 4 June 1989. And we believe that this institution, which is already known for organising many other events, should be granted a grant to organise where this revolution was born, an appropriate grant. I'm talking 6.3 million. Once again I express my regret at the address, I think a man of our generation, Minister Sellin, has suffered from this initial and succeeding amnesia so quickly. For example, because he participated in the Round Table and is his successor, because he was repeatedly chosen on the basis of the Round Table's letter. I did not have this privilege, and yet I am defending this beautiful political institution, which was the Round Table. All the more I regret that Mr Andruszkiewicz not only applied the law of grace, but considered him to be a rising political star, the same Andruszkiewicz who spit on the European Solidarity Centre, spit on everything European. Suddenly, Mr. Sellin became his biggest attorney, you can say, the promoter of his new face. At the same time, in the case of perhaps an older man, Wałęsa thought that his love of freedom of speech was a category... that the anatomy had to be placed not only on Wałęsa itself, but the whole resort, I will say more, the whole coast, and even demonstrate in Europe that the solidarity in Poland was not there, because if there are no designations of this solidarity, then and it was not in the past. That's why I'm making an amendment, among others. To allow a breath and a good organization... to make this organization, through which, among other things, it lives. The Senate, or at least it's drawing and adopting resolutions... Our pedigree is originally from Gdansk, just from the Solidarity... Well, if somebody doesn't want to say the words of Lech Wałęsa, then let them shut up and I'll forgive him. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, these problems that are facing us, as the Prime Minister says... Besides, in the budgetary sphere, he promises nothing, he says there are talks going on, but he admits that there will be a deconuncture. So when will this moment be for the raises for the budgetary sphere, since he is already bowing his head before the deconuncture, if not now, if not in this good budgetary position, when there are good receipts, cheatability, registers, ABW activities, CBA all times two and plus two? If not now, when will this problem be settled? [[Time's up, Senator.]] I think so. Mr. Marshal, thank you for your time, but I'll say this is the time when we, Mr Senators, Mr Senator, often from the budgetary sphere, we should seriously bow our heads over these amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u105	You have a voice, Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u106	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the context of the budget, I would like to address a few points. I'll signal the Bridges. Theoretically, we're going to build 22 They're all certainly impassable in the coming years. And instead, we have a cadastral plus, which is zero apartments. In terms of road safety there is a constans: every year 3,000 victims die on the roads and we are on the tail of Europe. The fourth point: Regional clearing houses are by name, because employees, about 100 people leave each year, there is no one left to work. I will conclude by submitting amendments, these are regional amendments, approx. 39. Together with Senator Piotr Zientarski, I propose an amendment concerning the regional accounting chamber and at the request of Senator Maria Panczyk, who is ill and absent, an amendment concerning the regeneration of Bytom. Ladies and gentlemen, I will only begin briefly with what Senator Kleina said about the S6 road. The Prime Minister also mentioned the S11 route. I know this path well, S11, and I know what actions have been taken. The programme was already prepared, in our time measures were planned and it turned out that after 3 years, STEŚ was commissioned, i.e. technical and environmental studies. By 2023, the case is blocked, because 48 months it lasts, i.e. by 2023 we will not build the S11 road, except for those fragments that were built earlier or are in progress. Now, ladies and gentlemen, the first thing I mentioned was Bridges +. They are to link Poland, as the Prime Minister said, 22 bridges, crossings that will be built. They were supposed to be bridges, among others. on the Vistula, Oder, Bug, Pilica, Warcie, in places where there are long sections without bridges. Minister Kwieciński added that the construction of bridges would be financed in 80% and that the minimum contribution of local governments would be 20.25%. Of course, I was pleased with this program, because of these 22 bridges 5 will be located in the Greater Poland Voivodeship. I know these places. We've been talking about one of them for 20 or 30 years now. We talk about it all the time, and I'm sure it'll be the same now. Ladies and gentlemen, the program was announced loudly. What's in the budget? Well, in the budget for this year we have a total of 18 million 750 thousand, of which 15 million are from the state budget. What's the money for? To prepare the documentation necessary to obtain licences, etc. We know the procedure, those of you who are aware of the preparation of the investment, know what the procedure is. When will the implementation of these bridges begin with this procedure? Well, I guess that's pretty clear. I thought we'd remember Mr. Mateusz Morawiecki as a bridge builder, just as we remembered Donald Tusk from the construction of the eagles. 2604 eagles were built. Grzegorz Schetyn was remembered because of local roads, so-called. Schematics. Nearly 15 thousand km of roads have been rebuilt, expanded or built. Mr Morawiecki, unfortunately, I do not fortify the success of these bridges. The Living Programme is, ladies and gentlemen, a complete failure, lost years. There was supposed to be a breakthrough in the real estate market, and you could say there's a failure on this market. Remember our discussion, how we talked about it here. I said there was no realization here. There was talk of building 100,000 cheap apartments for 2,000 500 PLN for 1 m2. The rent was supposed to be very low, several or several zlotys. In large cities it was supposed to be bigger, set from the top, of course. It wasn't real. Now the government wants rents to be higher, I think it's market prices, but it wants to pay rent. And that's why there's a start-up program, which is to pay rent. The program, as I mentioned, was about to create 100,000 apartments. Only 480 have been built so far. But according to the program's assumptions none were actually built, because these 480 apartments are apartments taken over during the implementation from local governments. And what does the National Property Resources do, what does the Supervisory Board do, how successful they are, and for what do they receive money from the budget? Ladies and gentlemen, it's hard to even relate to that. Road safety. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm talking about the Road Transport Inspection. The money is still in the National Road Safety Council, and there is also a programme to liquidate dangerous places, but mostly the main road transport inspector. Safety is among others. radar. The inspection has about 400 of them, and he wants to buy 400 more within how many years. I remember when we took out the radar. The city guard took them out. They have not been completed. The government was making way too much money, so it had to be eliminated. The inspection doesn't keep up with the purchase. So what do we have? We have a tragedy. For 4 years, the number of people who die on the roads is practically constans. In 2015 2930 people were killed, in 2016 3026, in 2017 2831 and in 2018 2855. In terms of 100,000 inhabitants Only Romania is worse than us. With us 7.5 people die on the roads, in Germany, 3.9, in the UK 2.5, in Norway, if I remember. It's a six-year-old. You can see how much we have to do. Regional Audit Office. New tasks were imposed on it in the previous year and this year, of course, without resources. RIO has very important supervisory and control tasks, must control each local authority every 4 years. I mean, she should be in control. We've learned that there are 1 000 274 jobs in RIO. How many people were leaving regularly? Okay. 100 people a year. It's hard to make up for the employees, the wages are very low there, there are no people willing to work. We alerted this case last year, unfortunately it didn't work... This year I will re-apply the amendment, because the functioning of the RIO within this budget is practically merely existence, not the performance of tasks that are imposed on RIO. I'll finish by discussing the amendments. The first amendment, tabled jointly, as I said with Mr Zientarski, concerns regional accounting chambers, and is about increasing the remuneration for the staff of regional chambers. It's about the same amendment as the one we made last year. We're repeating it. There was no money last year. We'll see what happens this year. I would like to remind you of the important tasks that regional clearing houses have in relation to local governments. If we don't want the government to be controlled, then go ahead... The next amendment is, as I said... Because the senator is sick and absent, she asked me to... The amendment concerns the regeneration of the mining sites in Bytom. And there are still regional amendments on a number of important issues, of course, including road construction. All these amendments are signed. Mr. Marshal, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u107	Thank you, Senator. Senator Augustine will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u108	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! Undoubtedly, if the government talks about a good budget, it always points to a good and strong basis for the economy, for its development. We all know they've been created for years and destroyed. You can quickly... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...if he doesn't respond... [[I'm sorry. Gentlemen Senators, you're jamming your colleague a little bit.]] Thank you. Destroy the pace of development can be quickly if you do not respond to the threat. Today I pointed out these threats in questions to the Prime Minister. I would be glad to agree with me if I found traces in the budget that would show that these issues concerning energy, innovation and the labour market are adequately reflected in the expenditures envisaged for dealing with these difficult issues. Yes, indeed, if we do not finally decide to clearly define the energy strategy and prepare for this effort e.g. for renewable energy sources, for prosumer energy, they're gonna threaten us. Huge punishments. The Prime Minister spoke from this speaker about how extremely high they will be. But unfortunately, apart from the long-distance plans for the construction of windmill farms at sea, such investments and such signals in this budget, we do not see. And yet, ladies and gentlemen, these penalties will begin next year, this is the last budget until this case is settled. If we don't reach 15% the share of RES by 2020, then we will have to pay those penalties. And what do we have in the last few days? This percentage has decreased by 2 points instead of increasing. We're going back, the cities are chasing. If I had heard the Prime Minister's declaration, I have an idea, there's money for it. Because we have only 11 months, we would probably like to applaud, support the Prime Minister in order to spend as much money on it as possible to make up for this distance, although minimizing, because I do not think that it is possible to meet these requirements, those penalties that the Prime Minister spoke of and from which you may have a headache, because they will hit us all very hard. There is no energy strategy, it has been created for a third year and cannot hatch. Therefore, we do not know whether nuclear energy will be developed or not, there are some funny 4 million more to roll time without making important decisions. We don't know if we're gonna stick to coal anymore. There's a lot of money in it, which shows how lying the information about the current price of coal sales is. If this were to be added to the expenditure that is foreseen in this budget, plus aid for mining pensions, it would turn out that this coal is simply not sold, it is not possible to sell coal at the actual price of its extraction in Poland. Exports are growing so enormously, because already, despite the various subsidies, the various weights that are borne by the budget, not by the mines budget, this coal is still very expensive. We found out, discussing this bill here, during this debate, and when at the last moment a lifeline was thrown, so that this year, this year, we would not pass it on to citizens that energy is our Achilles' heel. We are addicted to Russia, we are not meeting EU requirements, we are being punished. And in this budget, ladies and gentlemen, there is no answer to that. When we look at long-term issues, it's... Of course, we would very much like our economy to keep pace with other economies in terms of innovation. I will not refer to the words of the Prime Minister, who saw 1 million electric cars driving on our roads, but when I look at the expenses that are meant to be related to the pursuit of this, for the time being, of space, then... Senator Bierecki is smiling and I'm smiling too. [[But I'm on my smartphone.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Ah, you're on your smartphone, and I thought that because of those budget proposals that are supposed to pull us up in terms of innovative economy and electromobility. This is far from enough effort to make up for the limited distance to the companies that are already producing these cars. And there's not enough money to promote the purchase of these cars unless we're talking about luxury government limousines. Yeah, it's in there. There's electric money on these cars. I think it will not only be comfortable, but also ecologically, but it only applies to a handful of people. And the last threat, the huge threat to the labour market. Again, the Prime Minister agrees, yes. It is very good because there is very low unemployment, but unfortunately it is also tragically bad, especially where economic development is high, let's call it, on the western wall, where workers are rapidly lacking, and those coming from across the eastern border are no longer filling this gap. But the government doesn't even conduct reliable research on what this gap is. Each country has this estimate, and Poland does not. We know there's a shortage of employees, we know there's a lot missing, but we don't know what industries, what professionals, and how to get them. This is also because, in this budget, the expenditure on migration policy, the attracting of new professionals, the guests to work that we need so much, are microscopic. That is why I looked at the possibilities of launching this resource, which we have in Poland, namely older people, seniors. How much money is there for their professional activation? You've reduced your retirement age. That was the wish of the Poles, and that is how we read the electoral verdict. We paid for the age we raised, but you promised to create other incentives for seniors to work. The budget does not contain money that could significantly encourage older people to work. After all, we can no longer, even for a few months, allow older people not to return to work. I dream of something like this that we are dealing with in the Western neighbours, who have accepted so many immigrants to work. I'd like our seniors to have phone calls with proposals to come back, even for a small part of the job. Why are those phones ringing and not here? That's because the state pays off the entrepreneur if he hires seniors. We don't have a show like this. This aid is traceable, and that is why it is a huge threat to our development. The Prime Minister agrees, but the budget with the Prime Minister's words completely disagrees on this matter. Therefore, I believe that for these very important reasons, due to the lack of energy policy and money to implement it, due to the absence of a territorial programme for Silesia... Let's not scare the miners of losing their places in the mines, let's just show them the beautiful prospect of a good job, a well-paid job, right there in Silesia, just like our neighbors did, closing the last mine last year. Such a budget cannot be agreed upon in a situation where there is an economic situation. This is the last moment to deal with key issues that will decide on our development not only for the coming years, but also in the long term. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u109	Thank you. You have a voice, Senator Tight.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u110	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! For 14 years of my work in local governments, I'm used to the fact that the budget as the most important document of public authority is discussed for a month. It took us six days, less than a week. Ladies and gentlemen, for 6 days it is difficult to read the draft budget, with 600 pages filled with figures behind which taxes levied on citizens, institutions' budgets, the tasks of the state, but also omissions of the state are covered. Such a procedure is a joke about the responsibility of the Senate and the essence of democracy, which is to agree on the best solutions in an open discussion of people who have a different understanding of this responsibility of public authority. I will not pretend to be in the process of creating a responsible budget at the moment, but this budget is a fact, it will be in force. I would therefore like to draw attention to three points. Listening to the government's messages, we may have had the impression that these issues should be close to you, but they were not included in this budget. That's why I'm counting on this mistake that the government made, not taking into account these three things that I'm going to say, to be fixed by the Senate, that we're going to fix it. I am counting on the Senators of Law and Justice and I assure you that if the Senators of Law and Justice vote in favour, the Senators of the Civic Platform will support them. Ladies and gentlemen, the first point that I would like to draw attention to is the task of building a channel by the Vistula Land, the flagship investment of this government, by the way, that is very inefficient, as if someone wanted this investment to fail. However, in the long-term budget there is an announcement that the state wants to spend PLN 880 million on this investment. So it's worth it. Ask who's gonna use this channel. Well, according to the opinion of many people, including mine, unfortunately no one will use this channel. The reason is simple. Ships, Ladies and gentlemen, as many of you know Although I doubt that some people know that. They swim from port to port. But this investment begins with the sea side, and ends with the only port that can be reached from this channel in front of the Elbląg seaport. And that means that ships that wish to enter this channel and use its parameters will not reach any port. [[They'll be in the canal.]] Yeah, they'll be in the canal. Only, ladies and gentlemen, the question arises: why build a channel with a depth of 5 m when at the end of this channel there is a port with parameters twice that of this channel? Why spend 880 million PLN when this channel cannot be reached anywhere? [[Like Barei's, on the mattresses...]] I, Ladies and gentlemen, have spent 15 years on this channel, I know carriers who are waiting for this channel, carriers from Kaliningrad, Klaipeda, and I am asking them now if they will use this channel. Of course they say no, we're not going to use it, because the 700-t barge, and the 2-metre dive, only an idiot is going to sail to the Baltic Sea. These are inland barges that swim across the rivers, possibly through the Vistula River, but not on the sea. On the sea there are vessels with a capacity of 2,3 thousand t and a draught of 4,6 m. That's the minimum. So this canal isn't gonna get anywhere. Ladies and gentlemen, I am in favour of building this channel. That is why I do not propose to throw this investment out of the budget, but to add PLN 150 million to it and to adapt the port parameters to channel parameters for this PLN 150 million. This option was in the project of building the channel. Even in the days of the Civic Platform and PSL government. I don't know why it's not being implemented right now. Counting on someone putting in that money, for example. Elbląskie self-government is a count for something a man who doesn't know reality. 150 million PLN from the city, and it will probably be more money, because investment costs in Poland have increased, it is the elimination of all other investments during the entire term of office, i.e. within 5 years. 2 further applications concern flood safety of the Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship, Warmia-Mazurskie part of Żuław Wiślany. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the previous government has completed the first stage of a comprehensive flood protection programme of Żuław. Nearly PLN 500 million were spent on this first stage, probably PLN 496 million, of which PLN 100 million was spent in the Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship. The continuation of this first phase was to be the second stage. I'm sorry. And for reasons I don't know. . measures for the second stage, to which it was called to spend 600 million zlotys, were cut to 100 million zlotys. This 100 million PLN is to be issued in Pomorskie voivodship, 0 PLN is intended for Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship. The 17 tasks to be carried out at the moment have been excluded. The value of these tasks is 43 million for Elbląg, 58 million for Elbląg County, or another 101 million PLN. Dear Sirs, the comprehensive flood protection program Żuław will work, as the name itself says, when it is implemented comprehensively. If we did some of these tasks and we didn't do the second part, this program wouldn't work. If we build a shaft on the left bank of the Vistula River, we will not protect ourselves from the waters that the Vistula River flows. Yes, we'll secure part of the area, but we can't protect ourselves from the waters. And today is the situation. We did some part of the job, for 500 million zlotys, threw another program into 600 million zlotys, and there is a third stage, into 2 billion zlotys. The money we spent will not protect Żuława from floods if we do not carry out further tasks. Hence, my request to restore these 17 tasks and that the 101 million zlotys for these tasks be included in the state budget. This will certainly be less than the costs of eliminating the effects of floods, which will certainly also happen. And the third task, which also concerns flood safety, but which is not included in the Żuławski programme. It is not included in the Żuławski program because it is a threat from the mountain stream. Ladies and gentlemen, this may be strange, but there is a mountain stream in Elbląg. The feature of such a stream is that within a few hours it can turn from a 30-centimeter stream into a thriving 2 meter deep river, which destroys everything along the way, rips out bridges, destroys the surrounding waterfronts, spills all over the city. In 2014 the tasks to be carried out in Poland for flood protection were defined. There was a retention tank in the Silver Stream, which is Kumiela's tributary, and a reservoir in the Dębica creek. Unfortunately, money has not yet been allocated to these tasks. The effect is that e.g. Two years ago, a flood occurred in Elbląg, the effect of which was the release of 14 million PLN. The cost of building these tanks is about PLN 30 million. It's easy to calculate that two unhappy years will be enough, and that cost will be thrown out in repair of what this river has done. Notabene, Ladies and gentlemen, this stream is called Kumiela, but if you came to Elbląg and asked where Kumiela was going, the inhabitants would have trouble answering. But if you ask where the Wild Girls are going, everyone will tell you. And it says all about the nature of this river and its potential. So I'm asking for the 30 million to be put on these retention tanks, including the other one that's supposed to protect it from the flood, or the voivode will have to find money to eliminate the effects of the flood. I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that these three tasks I have been talking about will be supported by all senators. I am convinced that they are the logical consequence of the Law and Justice programme and the logical consequence of such thinking that it is better to spend on security investments than on the consequences of not spending this money at the right time. I'm filing a motion. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u111	Thank you, Senator. Senator Chudowska has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u112	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! I am proud of this budget, with the budget for Poland for 2019. I've always wondered how those countries that have a smaller surface... I do not want to say smaller countries, because each country itself is of great value, but it is smaller countries, with fewer populations, such as. Benelux countries, Scandinavian countries. How does it happen that people live there so well that it is the economy that there is such revenue that there are no debts, and our country, a great country, inhabited by almost 40 million Poles, citizens... The vast surface, all the natural riches of our dreams, the rich tourist country, avoids the cataclysms that affect other countries. Yes, we have floods, tornadoes, but not on such a scale as countries such as the Pacific. How does it happen that we still... that people are suffering poverty, that there's still poverty, that there's still trouble, that's all? Today Prime Minister Morawiecki presented the best budget for our country since 1989. And I feel a little sorry for the Senators of the Civic Platform, because although it's the sacred law of the opposition to criticize every budget, this is where they have to work hard to find something like this to stick a pin in this budget and point out our mistakes and this budget to criticize. So that I really sympathize with you. And this budget, which assumes state revenue in the amount of I'm gonna round it up. Almost 388 billion, is more than 100 billion higher than the budget left to us in 2015 by the government of PO and PSL. In that budget, there was a budget deficit of almost 50 billion, and today, in the budget of 100 billion, we are assuming a budget deficit of less than 29 billion. I look here only at the most important indicators, which are always at the top of the budget discussion or in the documents relating to the budget law. I don't work in the finance committee. Sometimes I joke that because of my profession I'm a doctor, and not counting, and here maybe I don't have to deal with it, just like my colleagues from the committee responsible, from the budget committee, but when I go to my constituents, not just in the field, because I also have interviews on the radio, journalists ask, people ask... And I try to explain as easily as possible to them this budget as any housewife or landlord planning it. You have to have a card, a pencil, write down how much you have, what needs are, and if you're missing, you have to take into account where you get it, whether you can still go to some extra job, which we're gonna give up, or maybe you need to take some more credit... These are simple, basic rules. And when you discuss the budget with the questioners, it becomes clear to everyone. And then you can get to the details. I would also like to remind you of some data on previous budgets, here thank you to the staff of our Senator's office, that they have prepared such documents for me at my request. I think all of you who... Well, some were in parliament in 2001, some were interested in politics. Anyway, maybe we remember the story 20 years ago, well, less than, 18 years ago, with the Bauca hole. I don't know if you remember this: 30 billion, Bauca's hole. But this hole was caused by not one but the then Minister of Finance, Mr Leszek Balcerowicz. The Coalition of the Solidarity Election Action and the Union of Freedom broke down and for several months we ruled as a minority I said that because I was a member of the Senator of the Solidarity Election Action at the time. And then there was this big scream about this budget hole, and it went back to history as Bauca's hole. That's when the budget was forecasting revenue... I'm sorry, revenue, yeah, revenue. Oh, it's a sign that I don't actually operate with these words, the meanings of words at 152 billion 465 million and a little bit more... And then the budget gap, which is this budget deficit, was set at almost 33 billion. It's the next year, 2005, the end of the SLD. Finally, the SLD government adopted a budget in which revenues amounted to 174 billion and a lot of millions, almost 175 billion and the budget deficit was set at PLN 35 billion. At the end of the two-year rule of the Coalition of Law and Justice, Self-Defense and LPR, we left the successors a budget in which revenues amounted to almost 230 billion, 229 billion and lower was... So the government of law and justice on higher incomes... The budget deficit was planned for no more than 30 billion. Well, unfortunately, we've only been in charge for two years. I don't know why I'm doing this anymore. And then it includes for 8 years governments in the country coalition of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party. In 2011, a budget was proposed for you with an income of 273 billion and a deficit of more than 40 billion. In 2015, revenue was estimated at 287 billion and a deficit of almost 50 billion. It's just to set up a percentage... State revenues have increased by more than 100 billion over the last few years and the deficit is still decreasing. These are indicators that I called macroeconomic for my own use and according to my knowledge of finance. Once again, I thank the Polish Government very much for this budget. The Prime Minister explained and, I think, he replied to the Senators of the Civic Platform that we do not feel that everything is already over, that we can no longer multiply these revenues of the state and that we do not need to plan more expenditure on certain areas of economic and social life. I'm very happy for one more. That we can maintain our 500+ program. For now it's 500 zlotys, but we guarantee it. Ladies and gentlemen, Also those who may be watching us, if our government, the Government of Law and Justice, had done nothing more than that, so that there are no hungry children in Poland, he would have done the most, the most important thing that had to be done. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u113	Thank you, Senator. Senator Fedorovich, you have a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! For the 12th time, I have the honour to evaluate the budget in the "Culture" section. Since 2007, when I was the bureau of the committee, it has been 12 years. For all of us, over this period, it was a matter of more than 1% of the country's budget for culture. GDP. This threshold was exceeded in 2014 and this percentage remained. It didn't go any higher, though we thought we were gonna get it. Mr. Marshal, I must say that for the first time it happened to me, or perhaps for the second time, that there was no Minister of Culture at the budget meeting of the Committee on Culture. The case was referred by the Deputy Minister, but there were several questions directly addressed to your Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Gliński, which the Minister could not answer naturally. These, of course, concerned a matter which has already been discussed here, namely the unfortunate lack of 3 million on the European Solidarity Centre. Our site or website of people reading with understanding and thinking thinks it was a political act, even though Minister Sellin claimed that the 3 million was an addition that was specifically created by the Ministry, because it is the responsibility of the Ministry to hand over Four million. But don't be surprised, ladies and gentlemen, that there is a situation, so to speak, a lack of confidence in a certain justice. This is also due to the situation that I see as a man from the art community, that the minister does not appear at important moments also because he has been punctuated several times. That's what worries me. I am concerned, Senator, because, in fact, the Minister of Culture should stand above divisions, especially the man who represents Polish culture outside. This was probably due to a situation where we lost... some of the environment has lost confidence as a result of some of the ministry's activities, e.g. such as joining the Westerplatte Museum and the World War II Museum in order to change the management, or trying to influence the independent and very competent advice of this museum made up of outstanding representatives from all over the world. There have also been situations that should not happen in my understanding when you have such a very important function. E.g. the lack of funding for the Malta Festival, because a performance was supposed to appear at this festival a year ago, which for some citizens proved unacceptable, although none of those who judged it actually did not see it. And here's a situation that I don't actually remember... Maybe here someone older than me, although few see them, will remind me whether the Minister of Culture has ever had a trial to say that he refused to grant a grant using such arguments. I'm also concerned about the situation... Well, we talk about creative freedom all the time. The Minister is actually an official who does not dictate to artists or people anything about art and culture, but merely administers on behalf of the government the resources assigned to it. People who take care of this incredibly beautiful business can handle it. There is also no reason for there to be no division into different kinds of creative activity. At the moment, the most important party, which is also the result of this budget for the ministry's activities, is the matter of heritage. There's a historical program called "Independant." We asked Minister Selin about this. There's quite a lot of money there, over 200 million zlotys, which are as if they're not quite clearly available. And that's obviously a little worried about us, because I'm actually afraid that this is some kind of distraction. There are situations like this... Mr. Marshal, for example. The European Solidarity Centre, which is dedicated to the activities of Senator Rogut or Borusewicz, our great friends who fought for Poland's freedom, is overlooked, and at the same time the Museum of Memory and Identity created in Toruń receives 20 million in this budget with a promise for a further 70 million in subsequent budgets, it is not surprising that this is worrying us. Mr Marshal, of course, the budget of the National Radio and Television Council was also considered at the meeting of our committee. Well, this is a separate department. Of course, this is a constitutional agenda, a constitutional institution that is to play its part. But in a debate that has been going on for several years, we note that it does not perform its functions properly. This includes: the situation on public television or public media. This side of the political scene that I represent, and the citizens who trusted me, we believe that public television has ceased to be public television since Mr. President Jack Kurski, but has become a tube of one party. It's sad that I think so, but unfortunately I think so on the basis of the public opinion I'm seeing. There's one more thing coming. There was no answer to that, and it's not in the budget. The path has not yet been made, but there has been information about the creation of one big film centre. it has been named like Mosfilm or Leninfilm, that in the hands of one man there will be a decision concerning artistic creativity, filmmakers' creativity. Well, that's... Of course, the minister will always explain that the situation with the teams was a relic from back then, but when we entered these freedoms, we wanted everything in these areas to be decentralized to put it more into people's hands. Therefore, I fear that the concern of the minister, the future too, will be the situation that on the minister's board, apart from the flagship institutions, will suddenly find itself, and will want to benefit from the services and care of the ministry, more and more artistic institutions from all over Poland. Maybe it's our fault. Maybe we can't manage the money that's meant for culture properly in local governments. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]] Mrs. Marshal, I welcome you very warmly. Actually, that's where I end up. I just want to make an amendment, and it's in an area that is very close to your marshal, which is in cultural education in schools, in all types of schools. Minister, I refer to the Minister of Finance in Annex 2, Part 81, the General Reserve in Chapter 75817, the General Reserve of the Council of Ministers, reduces the current expenditure of the budget units by PLN 100 million; in Part 83, the Special Reserve is added to Chapter 75818, the heading "Principles for cultural education in all types of schools" is added. Allow me, Minister, to put this amendment in your hands, Marshal. And thank you for your voice. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u115	Sign here, Mr. Senator. [[Oh, right.]] [[Voice from the room: It won't go away anyway.]] Thank you very much, senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u116	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Dear colleagues, I want to respond to this section of the budget that concerns the environment. For 3 years now, the environment has been separated from the water economy department. The water economy moved to the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping. This is a move that I think was unhappy and unsatisfied with the environment and its protection. There are 2 elements for this environment, which should be considered together, i.e. air and water, especially inland water, because these are the 2 elements that determine the quality of human life, its health, its satisfaction, but also the national economy. But it didn't happen that way. Now I will refer only to the part that is currently recorded in the environment. When you read the Budget Act, you see that the revenue of the budget in the Environment section must be very optimistic, because they have increased by almost 100%. , by 93.1% that is very much and is estimated at almost PLN 4 billion 709 thousand. And what's in it for us then? If we break it down into individual departments, Forestry, Education, Municipal Economy and Environmental Protection, it can be seen that environmental protection is attached to the municipal economy. So are we de facto talking about the environment, or are we talking about economic entrepreneurship? But even if we do, there is one element within this municipal economy that is very important: municipal waste. In this budget I do not see an increased amount for their development and I will ask for this increase. The second issue, which is also important for environmental protection, is atmospheric air, because we all breathe it. We're poisoned, our health is in danger when we breathe unclean air. If we foresee such a high increase in the revenue of the state budget in the Environment section and it is to come from the sale of these, say, clean air certificates, and it is for such a high amount, then I ask why we do this We don't have programs to protect this air, and we don't have programs that will benefit the environment. In the meantime, I'm impressed. If that's not the case, take me out of the way. We want to transfer this money from the sale of certificates to either energy, or to citizens, to the inhabitants, so that the price of energy does not increase. Am I wrong or am I wrong? If that's the case, it's a fundamental mistake. I would also like to draw attention to one thing, that the environment is treated a little bit in step. Because Forestland takes money from the sale of wood and transfers to what? For the Self-Government Road Fund. Isn't local government roads another area of our economy, or is it environmental protection? That's what it looks like, ladies and gentlemen. [[This is the first time the Platform has done this.]] So that we don't take a lot of time, because we all have an opinion on the budget, I'm making two amendments, which I'm going to quote. They relate to the two points I was talking about. Namely, in Annex 1 in part, Environment, division 900, municipal economy and environmental protection, revenues from the sale of greenhouse gas emission allowances are increased by PLN 2 billion. It's lithium. a. I lit. b. Annex 2 to Part 83 of the Special Purpose Reserves adds the appropriate entry: reducing air pollution, i.e. combating smog, with the amount of PLN 2 billion. This is the first amendment. The second also refers to the municipal economy division and leads to an increase in revenues of 100 million for The amount of grants and subsidies is PLN 100 million. Mrs. Marshal, it's for the record. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u117	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Mr. Marian the Messenger. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u118	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! In his speech, the Prime Minister was very positive and flattered about the situation in the country today, the economic situation, the situation in the labour market, and he praised the budget for 2019. I would like to draw attention to some issues following an examination of the expert opinion on the budget in part of agriculture, it is about rural development. Here we have a slightly different situation than that outlined by the Prime Minister, because experts note that the agricultural budget is gradually decreasing in the form of a share of GDP, which shows that the agricultural sector does not benefit proportionally from the effects of GDP growth. That's the data we have here to prove it. The budget in this section is 1.5 billion less than in 2018. Following an analysis of this over the past few years, the agricultural budget together with the European funds is 11.41%. That's how it is this year. Last year this budget was 12.37%, in 2016 it was 14.59%. So that only in 3 years did this share fall by 3,18% When we look at the real world, we look at the spending of the budget. Without European funds it is 6.5% for 2019, in 2018 it was 6.8% In 2017, it was 7.2%. This means that European agricultural resources are also steadily decreasing in relation to the size of the budget. Two words on the budget of European funds. This has been the case so far, and we are used to it very much that the agricultural budget has been complemented by these measures. But already in 2019 there is only more than 14 billion PLN in the plan. In the previous budget it was 15 billion, and in 2016 it was 19 billion. So there was a real drop of 9.68%. As you can see, in recent years, there has been a systematic decline in the budget in the agriculture and rural areas section, including the gross domestic product. It is therefore evident that farmers are not the beneficiaries of this growth. Let's get to the analysis, maybe not so purely economical, but let's try to compare the prices of agricultural products from a few years ago and present. They are at a similar level all the time, and costs are constantly rising. This is why there is great concern among farmers about the current situation and also about the coming years, about how they will live, whether they will be able to maintain their farms, their families. I will also talk about some elements, which unfortunately are not beneficial from the point of view of some alternative income of farmers or local authorities in the countryside. Such an element is this unfortunate windmill bill, which is to increase the distance of places where these windmills can be placed, from human seats. This kept many investments, and here farmers and rural authorities also benefited. Looking at energy prices... Exactly, it must be noted that costs are rising, especially in agriculture, especially in those farms where agriculture is very intense. And so on. energy prices are of great importance in animal production. Recently, we have noticed the auction that took place. That wind energy prices, from renewable energy sources, are systematically falling and are lower than coal energy. It is also as if the problem that causes, on the one hand, this transfer of funds to the countryside is limited and, on the other hand, the costs for farmers are increasing. One more point I would like to draw attention to. This involves such an overall assessment of the situation in the countryside. We have a systematic increase in export of agricultural products in Poland for 15 years, and this is significant. With a huge surplus is also the export of imports. What does that mean from the point of view of farmers themselves? We can see that agriculture is becoming more raw, intensive and fewer farmers produce in the countryside. This causes this added value to run away from the rural environment. This is seen, for example, by the decreasing number of high quality products in the trade. Our Actions Also those related to the law which strengthens the possibility of selling directly from the agricultural holding are a step forward, but there is still much to be done. On this occasion of the debate on the budget, I would like to raise this issue. We need to look for far-reaching solutions for Polish agriculture, the Polish village, so that this gap between participation in economic growth... does not differ. From the point of view of the rural environment, from what we often talk about from this tribune, and this is particularly highlighted by the government at present. To conclude this thread, I will say that this budget is not, after all, a budget that would give some significant impetus to development for Polish agriculture and the Polish countryside. I would also like to draw attention to a few elements. These will already be very concrete comments, which are related to the situation in Polish agriculture. The issue related to ASF, or African swine fever. There's a lot going on about it, he's talking about it. There is an increase in expenditure in this budget, but we believe that these expenditures need to be further increased, particularly as regards the strengthening of human and financial veterinary inspections and services at all levels to eradicate this epidemic. We are asking for an increase in this envelope. I'll pass on the correct amendment in a moment. We also believe that the amount for the Social Fund should be increased, because this fund has been playing a huge and important role in the activity of these smallest settlements, villages and is worth constantly supporting in this area for many years now. [[Time's up, Senator.]] I'm almost done, Mrs. Marshal. [[Time's up.]] The last amendment, already related to my constituency, is to increase the resources for the national road no. 12, the ring road of the city of Gostyn. Especially since this bypass is connected with the construction of another bypass, which already takes place on the voivodeship road. And it is high time to start construction of the ring road on national road 12 in Gostyn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u119	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator Piotr Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u120	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Well, you can't deal with a lot of budget issues in 10 minutes. In this situation, I will try to say a few words on issues relating to self-government, as chairman of the committee of self-government, but also on matters relating to justice, because this issue is particularly close to me. Yeah, and a few words about local issues. As far as I'm concerned, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of self-government... That was already mentioned, and I just want to stress what Senator Florek was talking about once more. It's about the problem of the regional financial chambers. Ladies and gentlemen, without regional accounting chambers, the local government cannot actually function, cannot function properly. Because these aren't just checks that have control tasks. These are instructional checks, these are checks that actually allow... and guarantee the proper functioning of local governments. And what does it turn out to be? That there's a massive drain of qualified personnel. This year about 100 people passed away, among others. to the Supreme Chamber of Control, where earnings are several times higher. This problem has already been raised in the previous term of office, ladies and gentlemen, and is coming back again. And you don't do anything about it. What's going on here, ladies and gentlemen? Well, I think we mean, normally, that this government should be strong, that this self-government should be efficient, that it should also be transparent, in terms of presenting its situation. And then, ladies and gentlemen, such situations as, among others, arise. in Ostrowice. That's why I'm surprised... I don't know what it's like to be stubbornly challenged here to raise, very, very, in such a way as to at least stop this degradation, the degradation of these chambers... Another issue is the problem of justice. Ladies and gentlemen, to the justice system... I'm not going to compare here anymore. But that's what very serious measures go for. This is, ladies and gentlemen, over 13 billion zlotys, almost 14 billion zlotys. Well, what's the situation, ladies and gentlemen? We hear that literally pennies are earned by court workers who depend on their actual functioning. Well, because without the office, without the case being filed, without the notification service, etc., etc. No, just without serving the judge There is no proper court. What does it turn out to be? It is not only that this efficiency has not been improved, improved, but the delay has been prolonged by about 30%. No, among others. for this reason, due to the irrational spending of funds, ladies and gentlemen. Let me just give you a few examples. This also applies to the budget of the Supreme Court, which has been substantially increased, as can be seen. Ladies and gentlemen, why? In this case, I am absolutely against raising this budget. We were talking about immoral proposals in the Supreme Court. The point is that the new members of the Supreme Court, appointed by the unconstitutional National Judicial Council, often promoted from the function of prosecutor or judge... Because there's no basic requirement for a Supreme Court judge anymore. It looks like we're making a general out of a lieutenant, a lieutenant. Because the Supreme Court is indeed the General Corps when it comes to judges. Ladies and gentlemen, these people are so-called. The immediate promotion is to earn according to the Act of 40% more than the judges of professors who went through their entire judicial career from the judge of the district court. Well, ladies and gentlemen, that's what these measures seem like. And let's take, for example. The issue of exhumation, the issue of spending funds... Well, there was an assumption, and after three exhumations, it turned out that there were some investigative conclusions. What's done next, we all know. I am no longer talking about the consequences of the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. These measures were completely wasted, and these were very serious measures. I'm not talking about moral losses caused by those people who broke the law, as it turns out. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very, very serious matter. And there are unfortunately many such examples. Further issues are related, in short, to the Prime Minister's speech. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I hear our country is honey and milk flowing. The Prime Minister said we have an S11. This is the way of life for Pomerania, the way from Katowice, through Poznań, through Piła, through Koszalin, to Kołobrzeg. Ladies and gentlemen, what does it turn out to be? The Prime Minister says she is. Well, what if she fell into the reserve? And if it is, for example. Szczecin's ring road, it's been decided... I myself was involved when Mrs. Bieńkowska was Minister. That's when it was decided about the scaffolding ring road at S11. And what, ladies and gentlemen? I make such an amendment. This amendment was also tabled in the Sejm and was rejected. The Prime Minister says otherwise, and the majority vote in favour of something else. I repeat this amendment when it comes to S11, which is the way from Koszalin to the end of the voivodship. There's still the S6 you asked Senator Klein about. Well, ladies and gentlemen, Senator Klein asked for one leg, from Koszalin to Gdansk... [[There was no road there.]] ...and the Prime Minister says the left leg, the second leg is healthy because it's S6 from Szczecin to Koszalin. But this road, as far as tenders are concerned, was sort of handled during the previous term. The current authority, so to speak, had nothing to do with it. She did what Senator Klein said she did, and she stopped the bidding for the next part. That's her work. That's the government's work. And that's why my next amendment. I have two amendments that I made last year. There was a promise to complete the renovation of the historic church in Sławno. This is only PLN 1 million 500 thousand. It'll also take half a million dollars for documentation... to start renovating the 14th-century city gates. As I said, ladies and gentlemen, what the Prime Minister says, and what often comes from the analysis, has nothing to do with reality. This is a thing that just shocks and is difficult to explain. It is difficult to have a serious debate here at all, a serious discussion. Because we're talking about completely different things. It's not enough that actions deny... I'm 100% sure. It's completely different. Indeed, it is difficult to seriously discuss this budget, but we have a duty to do so. The public needs to know what the budgetary situation is, what resources are spent on and where these funds should be spent in a rational manner. Thank you very much. I'm making amendments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u121	Thank you, Senator. Senator Tomasz Grodzki, please take the floor. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u122	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the budgetary debate we can and must talk about health, because in addition to education, security and justice, it is one of the fundamental pillars of a modern state. As you know, health care is still struggling with problems that affect workers in the sector and, above all, patients. In queues to some specialists stands for years, in queues to some treatments also stands for years. Although the impact from contributions to the NFZ is greater and theoretically, and even practically, the money in the system is more, neither employees nor patients see it. There are many problems that affect the health system, and some of them are smoking. The 500+ programme, which was intended to improve society's fertility, did not fully fulfil its task. At the same time, we have replaced the program called the in vitro labour programme, which we should generally talk about the assisted reproductive programme. - another programme, based on the so-called. naprotechnology. The numbers are pretty shocking here. As part of the in vitro program, they were born and still born. 23,000 children, as part of the naprotechnology programme, only a few hundred, and the cost of the programmes is not very different. I therefore repeat the amendment tabled in the Sejm to resume the in vitro-based assisted reproduction programme, as well as to make use of in vitro technology. It must be made clear in one sentence that the assisted reproduction program uses different less invasive methods so that the couple can conceive a child, and only after these methods do not work does it reach for in vitro technology, and it is under quite high international standards. So that I make this first amendment. The second amendment is small, but I especially ask the High House to lean over it, because, as you know, with stubbornness, well, I do not want to tell the maniac, but with the stubbornness of the child's attorney after the transplant, of which there are several hundred in Poland, I am asking for medicines for children after transplants to be in lump sums at PLN 3.20, as it was in 2015. There are arguments that these medicines have generic substitutes, etc., but there is one modern antiviral medicine, Valganciclovir, which does not have a syrup substitute, and children do not give medicines in tablets, because this tablet does not crumble, but is given in syrup form, because syrup can easily be titrated to give half or a quarter of a spoon, whole spoon or spoon. This medicine is essential. not even all children after transplants, because it is not an immunosuppressive medicine, it is an antiviral medicine, but you need to know that these children are much more likely to get infections than healthy children, because they are subject to immunosuppression, which is a weakening of immunity. In 2015, this drug cost PLN 3.20 per bottle, and now it costs over PLN 900. It should be estimated that he will need about 300 children a year 300 times 1000 is 300 thousand, times 12 months is about 4 million zlotys. This is no expense for the state budget, ladies and gentlemen, and a huge expense for the parents of these children, who obviously have to buy other medicines that, in the meantime, even substitutes, have also been expensive. So that I make a second amendment in this regard. And the third amendment I make in the light of what the Prime Minister said, what Mr Gadomski said, what Mr Bierecki said and what the head of the National Tax Administration said. The impact of the measures resulting from the recovery of the VAT contribution is high, the impact of the appropriations to the NFZ is increasing due to rising average salaries and good employment levels, and burning pay needs in the health service are not met, especially the needs of nurses, radiology technicians, physiotherapists and laboratory diagnostics. I don't want to go into the details of how residents, specialists and doctors were provided, because it's maybe, maybe a little less pressing. But in the light of the government's declaration that this year there will be increases for those groups that have been, it must be said, clearly neglected, that I am making an amendment to allocate from the increased impact of VAT recovery measures and the increased impact of funds to the NFZ a significant amount of PLN 2 billion to meet the most urgent pay needs of health workers. These are 3 amendments, which of course will not cure this system, but will allow it to function a little more efficiently and allow it to shorten the queues and meet the wage needs of the workers. I'm not talking about cutting red tape here, because this is a non-budget area. These are the three major problems of this system, which this budget does not solve in its present form. There's a saying that if there's no health, then everything else is nothing. I would ask the High House to keep this in mind, because if we were healthy, And we'll be the healthier, the healthier the health system will be. It's going to be better for us Poles. I therefore ask that these amendments be taken into account. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u123	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Piotr Wach, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u124	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Prime Minister appeared before us today and presented the very good state of the budget, actually the state of implementation of the budget for the previous year, the low deficit, as well as the low planned deficit, in terms of the budget that we are to adopt. This indicates that the amendments we propose I'll also propose one amendment. It could and should be adopted in so far as it is considered appropriate, in two respects. The first is the financial aspect. It seems that these amendments should not cause any major difficulties for the state budget, all the more so as they must be formally balanced. After all, we are putting them together in such a way that from certain departments we deduct expenses and add them elsewhere, there are few amendments made to increase income. So that, financially, in the light of what the Prime Minister said, the amendments could be accepted. In terms of timing and formality And so do I. The budget is perfect or close to perfection, it represents progress, further progress is planned. It is difficult to imagine that the President of the State, even in the event of a slight delay in submitting the approved budget to the President's chambers, would solve Parliament because Parliament had adopted a good budget and would improve it. So that I think that we can boldly go this way, of course, after having made a critical assessment of the amendments tabled and their relevance. By the way, because Senator Chudowska was talking about this problem... It is not strange, due to such good revenues, growing, and mechanisms ensuring sealing, in particular VAT payments, that the deficit is decreasing. In fact, we should move on to a balanced budget or even a surplus. Of course, few countries have a budget surplus, but it would be beneficial, because budget support costs about PLN 40 billion each year, so this year it can actually be said that more goes to debt service than the deficit. Of course, debt and its restructuring involve a very long-term process, which will not be done immediately. Here, to a certain extent, the government should be commended because, as far as debt is concerned, it reduces foreign debt to domestic debt. This domestic debt, as we read, is largely in the hands of Poles, also of individuals buying out sovereign bonds. I would now like to move on to discuss the matters that I am dealing with in the field of education, science and higher education. The worst situation is in education. Senator Klich has tabled an amendment and talked about it. It is very bad with education, financially, but above all functionally, because actually there has been an archaicization of our education. But I'm not gonna get into this because the main problem here is budget and finance. Teachers earn poorly, objectively weakly, and even worse from the point of view of the professional position of this group and their own feelings. Please note that, after all, strike negotiations and demands concern an increase in the level of wages by PLN 1 000, which would result, roughly speaking, in excess of PLN 14 billion per year, which is probably unbearable. On the other hand, the amendment we tabled in the Sejm, which with some modification was repeated in the Senate, concerns the amount of PLN 4 billion for the educational part of the general subsidy for local governments and has 2 objectives: to some extent the improvement of salaries for teachers and to some extent the coverage of material costs related to organizational expenditure on the double yearbook. The situation is that the state of education is also very dissatisfied with parents, especially those parents who currently have children on the threshold of high school, from two years old, from two streams of primary and secondary education. And that's a pretty bad situation. This fatality can be partly prevented by strengthening local governments from the financial side. That is why this amendment that you made to Senator Klich is fully justified and its adoption would greatly improve this situation. A few words about science and higher education. There's a slightly different situation here. As regards higher education and its financing, this is progress, above all formal. Combining divisions 28 and 38 into one unit, thus integrating funding for higher education and science together Although not all regulations are issued yet, there is a problem with this. It is actually beneficial as well as the transition to subsidies. This should be assessed positively, as the new Higher Education Act introduced... I mean, there have also been minimum salaries before, but this time they have been defined, is the professor's contractual salary introduced by the Minister's regulation, and the law shows what are the minimum salaries in each position. As a result of this change, a number of employees will receive this year But in a very uneven way, both in terms of schools and in terms of positions Salary increases. It's a lot of tension because there are schools that aren't gonna get much. It should be said here that most will be gained by a group of assistants, but also unevenly From several hundred zlotys, let's say, in universities big and well-funded, to incomplete 1 thousand zlotys at universities, where so far the assistants were employed at minimum wage. So that in this case, feelings are mixed. But it must be said that the Ministry made an effort to increase subsidies to universities last year, and this year it spent more than 900 million PLN on wages. However, feelings will be mixed and very different. Nevertheless, there will be increases, at least for some workers, including assistants. But it should be made clear that science is very poorly funded. Science is funded at 0.44% GDP, which is no longer a very good level, and actually more than 1/3 of it comes from the European Union, so that budget effort is negligible here. And it must be said that, in view of such funding, this so-called science. innovation that the government cares about But not just the government, because we all care about it. In fact, it is seriously threatened, this innovation is a dream. Ladies and gentlemen, innovation, of course... This is not just about money, but money is needed to boost innovation and to put it into practice. In order to put some initial results into practice, the first thing that needs to be taught is cooperation. In turn we are far from the ability to cooperate, here rather there is a division. And this is the division of both psychological events and the fact that higher education and all levels of education do not teach cooperation. So that our chances of innovation are low. This is due also to the finances, and the general situation, and the lack of understanding of the problem. Therefore, this section cannot be summarised positively, but despite some efforts made by both the Ministry and the State budget, in order to change the situation in universities and in the field of science a little bit. As I said, here the sentences will be divided and the situation will also be divided. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a completely local amendment that concerns my region. She provides for the creation of a new position in part 83 The aim is to renovate and maintain the Gothic cathedral of St. The heights of the Holy Cross in Opole. The property expenditure under this amendment amounts to PLN 20 million from the resources to reduce the service of the Treasury debt. Ladies and gentlemen, the 50th anniversary of the establishment of the Opole diocese is approaching. Opole has a historic old cathedral, which is undergoing renovation. It is being refurbished by a great effort of the faithful through collections and with some support from the local government, so that the financing of this project is well carried out, to the satisfaction and benefit of all, such an amendment should be accepted. That's what I'm proposing. This is actually a repetition of the proposal that my colleague has prepared... [[Time, Professor, time.]] ...in the Seym. I'm done here, Mrs. Marshal. [[Good.]] I just want to make this amendment, if you don't mind. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u125	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Władysław Komarnicki. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Poles want to participate to a much greater extent in the growth that has been achieved, especially since it is largely achieved through entrepreneurship. On purpose, I always say this from this speaker, because often politicians forget about it and it feels like the government is making this budget. I've been kind of enjoying this rhetoric for three years. On average, we owe this growth to 1.5 and 2 million entrepreneurs. And we should talk about it in all government and parliamentary speeches, from morning to evening. Thanks are also due to a huge crowd of Poles and Poles working. Unfortunately, I must say here that 2019 is the next year of the household budget drain, the next year in which you reach deeper and deeper into the pockets of Poles. That's the reality, ladies and gentlemen. I know that it is not right for you to talk about this, especially to the Prime Minister, but it is worth reminding that from each of the Poles' hard work and znoju złotki, the PiS State takes 35 gr. I would like to remind you: from every zloty worked out, the PiS State collects 35 gr, 35 gr, because taxes and contributions account for more than 35% GDP. Polish State You have to be honest with yourself. It is one of the most expensive in this part of Europe. And it has never been as greedy as it is now since 2007. And that is, ladies and gentlemen, the reality. But 35 gr per dollar is not enough, because the government will still borrow almost 2 gr, indebting future generations. You don't talk about that either, 'cause it's kind of sloppy. As a multi-annual entrepreneur, I would like to remind you that there are over 30 fees and taxes, danin, increases. Today, another one is introduced, which we can already document, because it is shown in black and white. Ladies and gentlemen, let's not blame the bill, every bill carries a raise. This money should remain in the pocket of the citizens, not go through the budget for what we then talk about, very often says this to each of the rulers. You promised not to raise energy prices. But that is not possible if the economy is based on coal, and coal is expensive and poisonous. And in front of me, Senator Augustine spoke in very detail... Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry, because three years ago, Senator Augustine and I made rational amendments to the dramatic RES Act. Well, ladies and gentlemen, do we see today, after 3 years? Today, after 3 years... Even the Prime Minister himself admitted today in connection with Senator Augustine's question that we really need to return to this green energy. But, ladies and gentlemen, three years in business, in the economy, it's a huge time-cure. Three years! I want to say yes, ladies and gentlemen. I do not know if you know, but Poland is famous in Europe for its transport companies. And now transport companies are complaining that autumn, which is usually the best time, has recently been weak. These harvests are not really there, there is a very serious weakening of the market. Let us not forget that in a moment there will be Brexit, there are many question marks here, and this applies especially to our country. You do not take these factors into account at all. Unpredictability of foreign policy of other countries, return to the model of supporting own economies And that's all at a time when there are clear signs of economic downturn. You don't predict that we're going to have a hard time. You're preparing a budget that I think will hit the weakest people when difficult times come. Dear Senators, please be careful, please appreciate Polish entrepreneurs, ask for more relief and support for them. Polish business gives jobs. If you don't want to help them, at least don't interfere with their actions, please. Ladies and gentlemen, there are questions that no one has answered and will not answer until today. My question is yes. Government forecasts make 1.5 million entrepreneurs pay higher contributions than they should in 2019. Will there be a ZUS increase for business? That's a fundamental question. Those who are self-employed will have to pay PLN 1,300. So the question is, what kind of relief does the government offer to the producers of GDP, the producers of the budget? The draft budget law for 2019 shows that tax revenues will amount to almost 93% all the revenue of the state budget, so the vast majority of the income is provided by taxpayers of various taxes. Is there any idea in the government how to reduce taxes and free the entrepreneurship of Poles? And one more question. In the draft budget for 2019, there is no need to look for increases for 2 million workers in the budgetary sphere. For $2 million. Will there be increases for police officers, firefighters and are they guaranteed in 2019? The Prime Minister said so beautifully: some of the budget will raise wages to 6%. Ladies and gentlemen, of the 25 first-needed foods, I have identified 6. Bread, 100 g, before the year cost 3 zł 32 gr, and today 3 zł 88 gr, 2 zł 19 gr, 4 zł 15 gr. That's in light of what the Prime Minister said today. Pasta, 0.5 kg: before year 2 zł 66 gr, then 3 zł 50 gr, this year 3 zł 75 gr. Tomato juice, 1 l: before the year 3 zł 98 gr, today 4 zł 72 gr, tomorrow will be 5 zł 20 gr. Kujawski oil, 1 l: before year 6 zł, then 6 zł 35 gr, in 2019 7 zł 15 gr. Boneless meal, 1 kg: 12 zł 75 gr more than a year ago, 15 zł 31 gr in 2018 and 15 zł 80 gr in 2019. At the end of the double sausage, almost ordinary, Mr. Senator: 10 PLN 60 gr more than a year ago, 16 PLN 60 gr in 2018 and 17 PLN in 2019. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]] One more very important thing. Ladies and gentlemen, for fuel, for oil, we go to Germany, to a community that makes between 4 and 5 times more money than we do. This is, ladies and gentlemen, an answer. In the end, I have such a warm, heartfelt request. I would like to make amendments to the Budget Act for this year, Mr Marshal. They concern mainly the construction of a new sports hall in Gorzów Wielkopolski. I'd like us to be on the special reserve... Let us not forget to ask repeatedly, beg for funds to build a new ICU pavilion and hematology in the Gorzów hospital. I'd also like to ask if that's possible... We're a disfellowshipped city when it comes to railroads. Please allocate funds for electrification of the cross railway line Kostrzyn. This is my warm, cordial request as Senator of District 21. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u127	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Duda.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u128	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Dear guests! Listening to Prime Minister Morawiecki today, I had the impression, bordering with certainty, that we went back to the times rightly past, times of propaganda of success. I also had the impression that all areas of Polish social, economic reality look great and that it is a country of milk and honey flowing. The governments of Law and Justice like to think of themselves, but also to say that they are the most pro-social governments in the history of Poland. But as is usually the case with the PiS government, it turns out that these are only words in a collision with facts. The figures in the state budget show the actual truth about this budget and about these governments. For the Law and Justice there are only certain categories of people important in our country. They are not important teachers, who Minister Zalewska first gave to chaos and stress, forcing many of them to abandon their profession to ultimately disregard the dignity of the financial expectations of those who decided to stay and save Polish education and Polish students. You're talking about very low unemployment. It's true, it's low, but that's what different factors consist of. You are well aware of how many visitors from across the eastern border, e.g. Ukrainians, he works in Poland. You forget that there are 1 million permanent unemployed people in Poland. What about these people? You're forgetting what you've been saying, which is an increase in unemployment benefit of up to 50%. minimum wage. That's not there. Where are 5 000 jobs announced by Minister Rafalska for people with disabilities in public administration? It's just a joke. For the PiS are not important single parents raising children, they are not important fathers who have decided to devote their professional development to their children, they are not important young people who are refused in vitro treatment. Your policy hits single parents, heroic fathers and strengthens the drama of many young couples in Poland. Finally, the PiS budget shows that this government has for nothing the demands of the environment of people with disabilities and their families. I ask: where are the funds provided for the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, which balances the benefits and takes account of adult carers of disabled persons? I ask: where is this noisy announcement of 500+, which is supposed to be in the program for life and in many other programs? Have you made any attempt to dedicate budgetary resources to those most in need of such support? I'm thinking about people with autism, with a complete developmental disorder. We already have media reports that the funds dedicated to these children will not be available, and these children cannot be in environmental homes of self-help, because they simply cannot function there, but only in special centres designed for them only. I would like to ask what is the proposal in this senior budget. Is there a program really dedicated to them, addressed to them? Demographic trends in Poland are clear. There isn't. I would like to ask if the deepening collapse in terms of health benefits will continue to worsen in 2019 due to such and not other dedications, in fact, the lack of dedicating funds, not dedicating them to specific, most necessary procedures and specializations. Why should our patients receive benefits at a much lower level than the European level? Polish entrepreneurs will not receive a VAT reduction in 2019, but they can be sure of tightening the control loop, higher ZUS contributions and increases in electricity prices. From the budget proposals, we can see who is important to the rule of law and justice. Activists are important, for whom positions in public administration arrives, PiS institutions such as CBA, IPN, National Freedom Institute are important. And for the ombudsman, there will be no money left. If I were mean, but I'm not, I'd say, at the end of the day, that there'd be money in the budget for more portraits of some of the notes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u129	Thank you very much. Senator Rulewski for the second time, I understand. Five minutes, then.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u130	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Here I particularly appeal to the marshal to be gracious of my speech for more than five minutes... Because I want to infect the High House with a problem that no one has ever talked about here or in the Sejm. And you can even put the thesis that in this budget its creators are sick, and I'm saying that to stay in this sick convention of mine. And they have symptoms of blindness. For can we not notice that in Poland there are 560 thousand Ukrainians, according to records exactly as many? It's 560,000 people employed in the economy! [[Talking in the O.R.]] 560 thousand people, who in an excellent number complement shortages in the labour market, and this, let's say, at the lowest cost. Budget creator I look at the Minister here, he should note that there are serious influences in this regard, for example due to the Zusov contribution, which these people have not yet consumed yet, but are paying it. Some see this as a reason for the growth of the insurance fund, the funds for the insurance fund. But please note that no one in this group of people, beneficial for the economy, but also for peace-building processes in Europe, has noticed. It is not noticed that these people need more than a bed in an 8- or 12-bedded room, more than an hourly rate of 12 PLN and sometimes less. In an hour, they may be entitled, like other employees, to a ticket home. Prime Minister Szydło, especially her, boasted that we had the greatest increase in the number of refugees in Europe. But can these people sleep in those beds that come and go be considered refugees? Refugees are better in Poland. And these people are just our neighbors. During the work of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, I asked what you were offering these guests. As it was once said, Gastarbeiters, but I avoid using this name Our neighbors, perhaps our allies on the job. Answer: Well, we will renovate the second floor of the centre in Przemyśl for PLN 230 thousand. What about education? I asked. After all, these people are more than just employees. They're also human. Maybe they want to learn Polish? Answer: Well, we have resources, 230 grand... For 500,000 people? For all minorities in Poland. At the same time, our western neighbour attracts them with a completely different offer, in which conditions are not made, it is not said that they are foreigners, but that they are just neighbors, friends I mean, not even gastarbeiters. It starts from admission to work, but already with the language offer, the offer of cultural center, maybe the construction of the church As with the construction of mosques and minarets in relation to others, it is done... Well, if it's that we find these people today our lifeline for the economy, and since the employers... Here I ask Senator Komarnicki to develop this union thought. If employers expect that they will not be the people who will stop by and leave for a while, but that they will integrate with us, and most importantly, that in any situation they will make a good impression about Poland that they will talk about us as neighbours, they will not talk about the cursed Polish land, then something must be done. In the Labour Fund at the moment there are 25 billion zlotys surplus and no zlotys for outside workers. Unless Senator Komarnicki pays and arranges a social fund for them, offers to go to church or even... Because it's not just about integration at work, it's not about slave labor. It's like, you know, it's like... it's like, you know, it's like, you know, it's like, you know, it's like, you know, it's like, you know, it's like, you know, it's like, you know, it's like, you know, it's like, you're like, you know, you're like, you're like, The trade union might create an observer status for them... Municipalities, local governments, fortunately, are doing this, integrating these families, these people. Perhaps the Polish school who wants this help will open its doors to them. After all, we do not want them to be just a few minutes or a few days' stretch in the history of our Poland. I am saying this because, as an activist of Solidarity, I voted in favour of the resolution of the first convention of Solidarity, in which we called on the workers of Eastern and Central Europe to adopt our ideals, ideals of Solidarity. Unfortunately, the PiS government doesn't notice it, but it's blind. Instead, I often hear songs about falcons over green Ukraine... It's nice, except it's in the past. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u131	Thank you very much. Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u132	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Law and Justice camp went for power with the slogans of modesty in politics, savings in the state budget, savings in power. If you look at the budgets of the state institutions, in particular such as the Prime Minister's law firm or the President's law firm, but also many others, which are quite generously endowed with budgets, this applies also to the Constitutional Court, and IPN, and the National Radio and Television Council, and many others. It can be noted that the growth of these budgets is remarkable. On the other hand, funds for other institutions, important for the functioning of the State and for the whole of this mechanism, for institutions that form a network called the State... And so on. The Ombudsman's budget, which you have also requested in this Chamber, asking that, with the increase in the tasks that we impose on the Ombudsman by law, there be measures that would allow for the normal functioning of... The measures were cut off. I will focus for a moment on the budget of the President's Chancellery, which is growing by 25% in relation to the 2017 budget next year. More than PLN 40 million for this amount in 2018. The High House has decided to raise the President's Office's budget. Representatives of the President's Office, relying on important expenditure in 2018 related to the planned constitutional referendum and anniversary celebrations of regaining independence, used this argument as an excuse to increase the President's Registry's budget in relation to previous years by a very high amount. They said that this was a one-time thing, that there was a need to increase this budget in 2018 because there are very important tasks. We have already questioned these tasks here, because it is rather the budget of the electoral office that should be increased in connection with the planned referendum, not the budget of the President of the Republic. In retrospect, spending on the celebration of the century of independence also seems to be called into question. Because have we seen any really expensive events that were organized by the President's Office, some national, pluralist march that would require enormous costs? We know that the president was going with other representatives of the power camp in the march that organized national environments. And this year it turns out that the budget of the President's Office is at the level of the previous year, i.e. more than PLN 40 million higher than would have been due to normal operating costs. As I say, this increase in expenditure resulting from various important events in 2018 can be justified, but in 2019 there are no such events. I will take this opportunity to point out the credibility of the budget planning and budgetary analysis of the President's Office's finances, returning to the opening report on 6 August 2015. I have this document in front of me. I don't want to quote it in full because it's long, and I don't want to bore you, but it's worth quoting a piece of the report, by anybody unsigned, no one dared to sign it, and yet it's been running in the political loop for months and for some of the media was very eagerly quoted. I quote from the report: "There is no possibility to cover needs and commitments incurred for the total amount of more than PLN 3 million. The Supreme Audit Chamber, which examined the budget of the firm just for this year, in one of its conclusions, wrote in the appropriate passage that the value of unused funds by the Office of the President of the Republic in 2015 was returned to the state budget over PLN 4 million. So the $3 million was missing, or was it? Too much? It turns out that not all funds were spent. Of course, it is a good thing that it was returned, but the credibility of these financial analyses raises doubts. And one more quote from this infamous report: "The actions taken in recent days and weeks by the outgoing management of staff and organisational matters do not find any substantive justification. There has been a significant involvement of financial resources in the main expenditure groups of the firm, i.e. in personal salaries, impersonal salaries, purchase of materials and equipment and purchase of other services. I am now quoting the report of the NIK who analyzed these expenditures: "It has not been established that public funds are being spent in an unintended or uneconomic way. The results of the audit showed that the appropriations were earmarked for the tasks set out in the Financial Plan and spent in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Public Finance Act. I quote these 2 documents to ask why this year the President's Office's budget is more than PLN 40 million higher than the budget in the normal financial year. There's no good answer to that question. Maybe one of you could justify it somehow. Your Senate, we are increasing... you are increasing, because we will not put into this hand the budgets of institutions that implement government policy, not always, in our opinion, according to the needs of the state, and, for example, as I mentioned, there is insufficient resources for the Office of the Ombudsman, which has received as a result of the decision of the High Chamber new competences and new responsibilities, such as accepting and referring emergency complaints to the Supreme Court. This is a very serious undertaking that requires tooling, and it, as we know, costs. Finally, the issue which has already been raised in this House, namely the reduction of subsidies to the European Solidarity Centre by more than PLN 3 million. In June, Prime Minister Gliński promised over PLN 7 million, but in October he decided to cut the amount by PLN 3 million. At the same time, we know that other projects that are controversial, e.g. 20 million to build the Museum of Memory and Identity in Toruń realized by father Tadeusz Rydzyk, the money is. And this amount will, of course, be larger, because this is a serious undertaking. It's probably gonna take a lot more than that. And yet the European Solidarity Centre is an institution that embodies in a material way the highly thought-out achievements of the entire generation of "Solidarity," including the countries that are in this Chamber, documents the great ethos of "Solidarity," and I think it is much better than e.g. The Polish National Foundation takes care of historical memory of events that changed Europe. There is no need to spend tens of millions of zlotys on the Polish National Foundation, which has no tools, ideas or competences to defend our historical truth about the fact that it was in Poland that the Solidarity started the movement and actions that changed Europe, which destroyed the Berlin Wall. No PR money will work so well to remind you that we did it, not someone else in Europe, as hundreds of thousands of visitors to the European Solidarity Centre in Gdańsk, including tens of thousands, already hundreds of thousands of foreigners. This is really well spent money, and it is worth that the High House should show further reflection on this matter. Finally, one small, regional issue, which is part of national policy, in such an announced maritime policy of the state, i.e. the restoration to the lives of Polish, supposedly non-existent or inoperative, shipyards and ports. Well, the government has a chance to actually put a hand in improving the situation without making a fictional scene with the keel, which then are the subject of jokes and legitimate jokes... [[The thugs already stole it.]] I propose to accept the amendment and unlock the access road to the port of Gdynia, which has, as promised by the government, great development plans and rightly In addition, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. construction of an external port, i.e. lay down the funds for the long-awaited design and construction documentation of the section connecting the port in Gdynia with the S6 road by transit route. This will be a real contribution to the development of the Polish maritime economy. I am placing an amendment on the hands of the Marshal in this regard. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u133	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine. Going twice, so five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u134	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! I was talking about the economy, now a brief supplement to what was said in the speeches by Senator Rulewski and Senator Duda in relation to social policy. I absolutely support the amendment, which concerns an increase in wages in the budget, but I would like to say that there is a strike, there is a protest of social workers who are demanding increases. There's not a penny in the budget on this, and local governments can't carry it by themselves. The Ministry sends beautiful letters with a finger pointing out: 'It is you who should increase, but it does not increase your participation in the financing of commissioned tasks. That is why this budget is absolutely lame in this respect. As far as the situation of pensioners is concerned, I would like to emphasise what I said on the occasion of the Law on the valorisation of pension benefits under consideration here. Polish pensioners are getting poorer and poorer. The Prime Minister spoke here about this valorization, but he praised two things that are separate. Because it's like scissors that open up: wages grow, but they grow twice as fast as retirement. It was bad, and after this budget it will be even worse, because the prices that Senator Komarnicki was talking about here are the prices of products that matter most in the basket of pensioners. We know this from the annual report submitted to us by the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. This latest shows that the share of food, like medicines, is incomparably higher in pension portfolios than in any other social group. There is a lack of a comprehensive view of long-term care. Senator Duda spoke of an unenforced sentence of the Constitutional Tribunal. I would like to talk about the fact that there is money for respite care, but it doesn't really apply to seniors. What's out there is about taking care of younger people. And this problem is huge, it affects most families. And the ministry is still deaf to find the money for the telecare, for the resting-up, for the welfare check. The state, in a brutal way, without discussion, rejected the bill drawn up here in the Senate and, in return, I stress, you do not propose anything. And yet, the postulate in the program "Arena Idea" is a beautiful meeting place just in the European Solidarity Centre, a meeting place of many organizations and local governments who came there, I also, among other things, took part in this "Area Idea" which was to give custody to Polish seniors. It is all the more incomprehensible that you are saving nearly PLN 2.5 billion in family policy. I'm talking about an extra 500+. It's not like there's no money. They could have been redirected and tried to deal with these big things. Well, the budget, as was rightly said here, reveals the real essence of things. And the 500+ budget shows that, unfortunately, this programme has not produced the expected results. Finally, the painful issue of the employment of people with disabilities. Senator Duda mentioned it a little bit here. I would like to stress that even 0.2% or 0,3% you have not foreseen for those who are assisted with PFRON in employment. There's no money. They won't even get an adjustment in terms of inflation. And that's outrageous. It doesn't explain anything when the PFRON budget is growing. Why do you treat these people like this? I think these are serious flaws. As well as the fact that the care provision that was to go, as to the greatness, in the footsteps of the lowest wage, yes, is increasing, but to an incomparably smaller extent. It's just some of the flaws. I'll just add... I will remind you of the dramatic letter from the State Labour Inspection, which shows how far underfunded it is in relation to the tasks that fall upon it, for example with regard to the control of employment of foreigners in Poland. To conclude, I would like to say two words about regional amendments. They concern two issues: road and rail investment and health protection. On this first point, we are asking for money for the ring road of the saw and the estuary. This is part of the S11, and the Prime Minister assured us that there was a will to move forward, only that we needed projects. That's what's ready. We have STEŚ, so in the system design and build it could start to contract this year. You don't expect money for that, you put off this investment, you postpone it, and you tie it to other major sections. Well, you may have doubts about your goodwill to make this investment someday. At the conference, Mr Law and Justice informs of the great success that the investment of the S10 is about to begin, i.e. 10 years from now. Oh, that's the perspective we're talking about. Ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you that we've made these huge infrastructure investments over the eight years you've cursed. We did it, and you've been in charge for six years. Well, unless you've forgotten the first two years. I didn't forget. All in all, you're starting your sixth year of government. And now a few more words about the necessary revitalization of the historic steam station. You had to scare the D.A.'s state railroads to make a roof. It's not enough for more, so we're applying for this investment to be completed. And also the issue of modernising hospitals, especially those in Pile, which needs money for both thermomodernisation and other investments, especially in the field of radiation. The voivodship government has built a beautiful place for radiotherapy, but there is no money for an oncology ward. The county hospital is in no way able to handle this. So these 2 titles appear here. In the area of road construction there is also the Obornik ring road, and out of minor expenses there are expenditures on hospitals in Czarnkow and Trzcianka and on hospice equipment. This is a special case, because this hospice is built in the lion's part from social contributions, and in some part from the voivodship budget. It is time for you to contribute to this work, even in the form of its equipment. That's what I'm saying. Please accept these amendments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u135	Thank you very much. Senator Czarnobaj was the last person to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u136	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! I will try to summarize some of the speeches that fell from this tribune, but mostly I would like to focus, ladies and gentlemen, on what is the subject of various kinds of studies and positions of certain environments. I would like to say, referring to the Prime Minister's speech, that it is not that this budget is totally terrible and that it will plunge Poland into ruin. Well, there was a country that was developing pretty well. The team who wanted to win the election started telling me that the country had fallen into ruins and all sorts of other things. They won this election and it turned out after a month that this country is no longer in ruins. Yeah, there's a country in Europe. Referring to the words of the Prime Minister, I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that the substance of the discussion, especially in Parliament... Well, I'm not talking about the foundation anymore. I read that in one of his speeches the Prime Minister said that this man built scaffolding as such a foundation. I would like to say that the foundation is, however, a foundation, and I think you are actually building a scaffolding in Poland. And now I want to tell you what the Prime Minister said. Well, this bad previous government, starting with PLN 511 billion in debt, when it gave power, had PLN 880 billion in debt, deficit, public debt in its entirety. Today, according to various statistics, this is a trillion fifty, trillion hundred, trillion... Anyway, about a trillion and a hundred. Let's do a simple math. I understand the Prime Minister has his advisors in the Ministry of Finance. I'm looking at the Minister here. Who can easily count it. If we take the difference of 880 billion and what we have today, we're going to multiply after 3 years, because this is 8 years, it's going to be no less, no more than a 70% increase compared to what it was, when you took power. And do you know what the debt increase was during the Platform and the PSL for these eight years? 72%. Well, yeah, but you've worked hard for eight years... 2% Savings, that's great. 5% increase, boom in Europe and the world, and 2% increase You owe less... As I listened to the Prime Minister... I'm glad he's feeling so well. This budget is not entirely bad and we can find various types of good elements in it, we would be ignorant if we said that it is a completely bad budget, but, listen to you, our role is to point out the risks in this budget and how this budget will affect the standard of living in Poland. It's a fundamental thing. It's not like we're just loading in here, putting in... This is about how 3 years of budgeting will improve the quality of life in Poland. I'll give you a few examples. Ladies and gentlemen, if the Prime Minister says that only 28.5 billion... Well, actually, it's just because it could have been 40. And again, 5% growth, a thriving economy in the world and in Europe, 15 countries in the European Union have a surplus ♪ and we've been... ♪ As you can see, we have 163 billion gross credit needs this year. Let me repeat: 163 billion gross credit needs. With that kind of economic growth? I'll ask, Minister, please take this question to the meeting of the government. What the budget will look like, how the crisis will come, how the situation in 2008, 2009, 2010 will come. We read and know that the economy is turning into a sinoidal system. It's not like we're still growing. So that someone who boasts that we have only PLN 28.5 billion deficit I'm gonna say it gently. The expectations of our country's economic development differ slightly. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister was also talking about scavengering investments. I want to say yes. Domestic consumption is the driver of economic growth today. Thank God he joined this in the last quarter of the export. In short, Senator. I'm addressing Senator Chudowska here. It's all right, the numbers you gave are just true, but... to what you said, I'd like to add this. 1% GDP growth, as we were told at the committee meeting, is about 0.5% increase in revenue in the state budget. So for three years, you should be able to say that you have income. You as a government, we as a Poland At the level of PLN 100 billion. And that's exactly what the senator says. That's one thing. Secondly, it is important to know that the economic effects do not just occur. It's not like you're winning the election on October 25th. Poland is in ruins until October 24 And on October 27th, there is a great economic development. The decisions taken have an economic impact after 3, 4 years. So, in scientific terms, as rulers today, you're consummating I read; it's not mine, if it were mine, I wouldn't even dare say it, what was in previous years. I know you're upset about this, but I need to read some parts... Ladies and gentlemen, we are working on this law as we are on all laws. Act without corrections, quick... And there is not even time for the Minister, who, I see, is open to discussion, to speak honestly about the good and bad sides of this budget, about threats, about a certain perspective. After all, all we're saying here is not something you can do all of a sudden, right now, today or tomorrow. But if this process does not start, then I miserably see the future of the economy of the Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, opinions have been requested by the Senate Office. And two reviews came back. I have been fully acquainted with these opinions and a few passages I would like to read to you, so that you know... Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I know that Mr. Chairman is reading this. Well, what's it like, but I'd suspect that Mr. Chairman would read with comprehension. He can't do it, I'd... No, no, Mr President. I know your president, and you know me, and we know we're reading with understanding. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll read some passages. It is said that property expenditure represents a small amount of PLN 20 billion in the budget. So we have an increase of 100 billion, we have more income, and we have the sum of property expenses. The ones in the budget, because I'm just talking about the budget. It doesn't grow, but it does. But, in preparation for this speech, I was thinking: maybe it's better that the state as a government doesn't spend any more of this money on investment, because, as I read, you recently bought some sort of transport plane, I think Boeing 737, which will now stand for another year, because you forgot that it must have a trained crew. So for a year, the crew will be trained. Oh, that's beautiful! So it's better that you guys don't make those investments. Or what you said today, Senator Strictly... Well, fantastic, they're building a dig, but not to the harbor, but it's the end of the gauges and... and the ship is standing! I suggest that you put a piece of plaque in there: "Here we have finished digging through the measurement. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] Now, ladies and gentlemen, a few more things. Those specialists who got the budget to review and they're not from the Platform, because it was the Senate's commission. It says: there is a negative trend towards the rapid implementation of high-cost social programmes that deepen inequalities. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm glad you've fallen... It's what Senator Chudowska said. I subscribe to this and the great glory of Law and Justice that began the process of reducing the number of children and families, to say gently, very poor. This has decreased, in this respect we have a really big leap and big achievements. But what you're doing with all kinds of social programs is making the difference. But I'm not gonna dwell on it because it's a whole different issue and a different time. The objective of social policy That's what these professionals say. The transfer of funds to citizens is becoming the start-up of the transfer of funds itself. I agree, you're good at spending money, but if you have to organize something Do you know how many apartments you've built in three years? 0 is a significant number in math, but... well, unfortunately 0. [[Voice from the room: Impossible...]] Yeah, it can't be. You've deleted the support for the young, the program that was walking and scooting. You've deleted it and you've got yours. And it's built on every hula building, but only the wind. Maybe it wouldn't be anything like that, but... these authors say this: this policy I'm talking about budget policy, because the budget is a certain expression of politics. It grossly discriminates against people with disabilities. He's threateningly discriminatory. That's what we were talking about today. Applying social policy costs to local governments without transferring funds, i.e. without support. And now, ladies and gentlemen, a word about what is to be pro-development. It's about education. I mean, there was a lot of... You are humiliating Polish education today. You've made a deformity. And what else? I always say, let us set an example from the people who have already carried out such a process. Scandinavian countries... In particular, Finland has gone towards strengthening the position of teacher, the teacher in Finland is the second best-earned doctor in the country Finland has the best results in Europe and the world today. They took out the parole board. What are you guys doing? You're strengthening the probation, you're putting more and more burdens on the local authorities. I mean, the reforms... I asked for information from my district about how the reform was being implemented and how much it cost. And I want to tell you how much that cost the local government. For 1 million PLN issued by the local government, 300 thousand were from Minister Zalewska. And she told us it wouldn't cost local government even a dime! And the true hell is still ahead of us. September this year, double year. I encourage those countries who are interested in education to follow up the report on the meeting of the rule of law committee. That's where the professors showed that we... [[Mr. Senator...]] I'm coming to the end. When I'm done, Mr. Marshal, I'll ask for five minutes immediately. [[Not right away.]] [[You're done because it's been ten minutes.]] I'm in a hurry, Mr. Marshal. It'll be five minutes. It has been shown that we are moving towards encyclopedic knowledge. Totally. What's the worst part? The teacher gets 100 units to teach, and he's got time for 70 units. And it's written that he's learned in 100 units. There is chaos, a mess, a complete lack of well-organized software bases. What else are you doing? You don't want to pay those teachers. You want, as I understand it, ten years from now, teachers are like the worst people, people who say, "This is bad, this is bad, I'm going to be a teacher." You guys want to make this happen. You're gonna bring it to this level when it comes to education. Now, ladies and gentlemen, two words about health, because the Minister is here with us. I read here... I want to say right away, Minister, that these aren't numbers and facts I made up. I'll quote them. Queues. You said it would be better. It was bad, and it was supposed to be better. I will read to you the information of the Foundation.Watch Health Care, which shows that waiting time in the queue to specialists has generally extended to about 4 months. It was best in 2012 when it was on average 2 months. Of course, data are given here regarding specialists such as endocrinologists, 11 months, dentists, 8.5 months, orthopedics, 7 months, etc., etc. There are also two specialties. I'm not gonna show it here anymore. In the case of which the time has been reduced. So... [[Mr. Senator, 15 minutes.]] Impossible. [[Yes.]] But you don't like me. [[Your friend at the club takes care of your time.]] Mr. Marshal, to conclude, I'd like to say two more words about health, if you don't mind. Because health is important, Mr. Marshal. Whatever, but health is important. [[I agree with that. Why don't you put a dot on it?]] Yes, sir. I'm not gonna talk about what I really like about you, Mr. Marshal, so to speak, information policy, that TVPiS, that is, public television, must be supported for balance... [[That's where we can put the dot.]] ...so that the rulers may have the opportunity to present their views somewhere. [[Mr. Senator, 15 minutes.]] I agree with that. But you have to do it not from the state budget, but from your own money. [[Yes, sir.]] Mr. Marshal, at the end of the day, I would like to say two words. [[There were two words before.]] I know I've been talking. Mr Marshal, these will be two words on amendments to the 2019 budget law. I would like to make four amendments that I am making here. I'll be brief. One amendment concerns the issue mentioned here by Senator Wcisła, namely the continuation of the flood protection programme in Powiśle and Żuławy. This is a very important topic. There is also a question of improving the quality of roads and bypasses in 4 districts in Powiśle and Żuławy. I hope that such reasonable amendments will pass in the Polish Parliament. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u137	Thank you very much. Senator President Bierecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u138	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I hope to be the last speaker in this debate... [[Well, you don't know.]] ...so I'll act unprovoked. [[We don't believe you.]] Yes. It's not provocative. I'll skip eristic tricks and juggling numbers. Let me just say this: it's a very good budget. I am pleased that we all share this opinion in this House. [[Not all of them.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] I listened to the senators, including the Civic Platform, and everyone said it was a good budget. It's a good budget. [[Talking in the O.R.]] If anyone said otherwise, then... [[I did.]] Oh, there's one who confesses. I guess I wasn't paying attention. In his speech, the Prime Minister showed how this budget is designed, what challenges it responds to and what it serves. I can only stress one thing: for the first time in this House we had the Prime Minister's speech on the budget. This shows the importance of this budget, the scale of this government's achievements. This important message was delivered today by the Prime Minister and I am glad that the Senate was the place where we heard this message. That there is as much as PLN 175 billion of VAT revenue for last year. This is really very good news and a great forecast for a good execution of the future budget. On this basis, it can be predicted that perhaps next year we will actually get closer to a situation where the budget deficit will be very, very low, very, very low. So this is a very good budget. It is a budget which is based on the solid work of the tax authorities, the solid work of the Ministry of Finance carried out in recent years. In 2015, tax revenues in Poland amounted to PLN 256 billion 673 million, and we predict that in 2019 they will amount to PLN 359 billion 731 million. So we're talking here about an increase in tax revenues of over 100 billion. This is the measure of success of this government, that is the measure of success of this team, which provides funding for all important projects, programs that improve the finances of Polish families, which improve the welfare of Polish families. After all, we are talking about such a significant growth at the same time without fiscalism, which this number would suggest. After all, Polish entrepreneurs receive exemptions, reliefs, and as the Prime Minister stressed, 90% Polish entrepreneurs will benefit from lower CIT. So here we are dealing with a friendly fiscal policy and at the same time with significant growth, with huge growth, not only important but also a huge increase in budget revenue. This is the measure of the success of this government. This shows how good it can be in Poland without imposing excessive burdens on citizens. But this budget also provides funds for the growth of gross domestic product, and it also increases consumption. Budget expenditure is rising from 331 billion 743 million in 2015 to 416 billion 111 million. It is a huge amount of money that goes to the Polish economy, also to the Polish economy. This budget is a pro-development budget, it is a well-structured budget. I also thank the Senators of the Platform who performed so abundantly. Thank you for the amendments they have tabled. These amendments also represent a diagnosis of the scale of the problems we face, repairing Poland after years of neglect. All these amendments, all these things that you see as things that should be done, are things that could have been done in Poland a long time ago, if you, like this government, were to conduct tax policy, if you, like this government, were to collect taxes if you, like this government, fought tax mobs. All of this could have been done much earlier. So these amendments of yours are in some sense a diagnosis of omissions from previous years. The Commission will be dealing with these amendments shortly after the end of this debate, half an hour after the end of this debate, and we will be discussing your proposals. This is a very good budget. I'm asking the Senate to accept this budget. Poland will be better at the end of 2019. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u139	Thank you very much, Mr President. For the record... [[He's still enlisted...]] Mr. Senator Klein. Yes? How many times? [[Second time.]] Second time. Five minutes. [[That's enough.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u140	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I listened to Senator Bierecki's speeches with interest and interest. I only have a few words for a brief comment on what he said here. First thing. Law and Justice in the last 3 years and in the fourth year of government have introduced thirty new fees and taxes, including large taxes, which have brought large revenues to the state budget. So saying that there were no tax changes and there were no new charges, is not telling the truth. Second thing. Sealing the tax, I said it also at the beginning. It's not because of one government. This admiration is good, but you have to be able to... You have to know, look at how and when these regulations were introduced. Again... [[Who planted it? Who planted it?]] Like I said, reverse VAT. In the days of our governments, with total opposition to Law and Justice; a single control file, the one that was mentioned today by the Prime Minister as fundamental and fundamental, was introduced in the times of the Civic Platform. Besides, these were the rules that we introduced as one of the first in Europe. The first Portugal introduced a single control file. So that's how you see it. Comparing the 2015 budget revenue with the 2019 revenue is a road to nowhere. You know that very well. You just have to compare the time, moment and situations involved. The amendments we make are because you say And I can see it, too. That income is high, so we see that there are possibilities. We are also doing this because the budget is designed in this way. What you're always talking about. There are opportunities, free areas, that there will be even more different measures in different areas. When you introduced them, you tabled amendments in 2015 and in previous years, there was probably the same or even more of them than we are proposing now. You're the only ones who've always talked in context... In what context? In that the state is in ruins. I even noticed then, I said: Mr. Senator Rybicki, you are making an amendment, and just now you said that there is not a penny in the budget for anything, because the state is in ruins, there is no income, everything is wrong, wrong, wrong. We are making amendments because we see that there are budgetary possibilities. That's the difference. So that we can appreciate it... [[What Fisherman?]] [[Voice from the room: He made a mistake...]] [[Senator Rybicki?]] Bierecki. [[Voices from the hall: Aah!]] Senator Bierecki. [[Voice from the room: But he didn't protest.]] [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] So, ladies and gentlemen... [[I'm listening with interest.]] But I see Senator Bierecki is looking at it in such a way that he knows it's him. I'm sorry, Senator Rybicki. Of course, we could talk about things here. There's a little more money in different areas of life, but if we look at this budget again, I didn't talk about it anymore. I didn't want to talk about it. We'll see that for fishing, and you say that you're in favour of maritime affairs, for the maritime economy, there's 50%. less than last year, and last year was worse than last year. [[You know why that is.]] Sir, Senator, if this method were applied to all economic sectors, then I would say yes, it is true. But it's selective. When the Minister says, he tries to explain why fishing is so less, arguing that the resources are in this large reserve, then something here is not quite real. You just have to be more humble about things. And if it's that good, let's bring the deficit to zero, let's not keep living on credit. This deficit could be close to zero even in 2018 but later, at the end of the year... You remember: there are extra expenses, new ideas to simply implement all of this and to actually end up in debt so that there is a deficit. Or could it really be zero? So this is an economy that is not a rational economy. You've come to a good time. Let's keep this up for another five years like we're gonna have to rule... The Minister says he's already preparing the budget for 2020. This budget will already be implemented by another coalition. And we're not afraid of it. Right? [[I don't think so.]] That's usually the way it goes... That's how it's gonna be. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u141	This list keeps going on and on. Senator Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u142	Five minutes, right? Five minutes. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I address Senator Bierecki, Mr President. Well, I gotta say, you guys are the best at taking credit. With the modesty you were talking about at first, it has nothing to do with me, because in my territory, I witnessed ribbon cutting in connection with investments, including road investments, which had already been built and opened in the days of the Civic Platform. That's one thing. Second thing. The second thing is something that makes me very poor. You said very unfair, very unfair. That the amendments we make are proof of what we haven't done. [[Right.]] You ignored my speech, you had the right, maybe you didn't listen. But I'd like to remind you that it's quite the opposite. On the contrary, I have tabled these amendments to restore tenders and investments that were prepared and started during the Civil Platform. It's about S6 and S11. It was thanks to you that, of course, the Prime Minister spoke completely differently today. S11 fell on the reserve. [[Six is in custody, too.]] Six... tenders cancelled, suspended for parts of Koszalin Gdansk. That way. That's what these amendments are for. It's you guys... [[Something must have been wrong.]] [[Everything was fine.]] No, it wasn't. No, no, no, no, no, Everything was ready, there were tenders. And you've brought destruction. These amendments are only meant to restore what we have done, what we have prepared. That's what these amendments are for. That's why talking like you said is just insulting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u143	Thank you. We've exhausted the list of speakers. For the record, the Senators Bonisławski, Libicki, Kobiak, Bielan, Mikołajczyk, Ryszka and Kleina made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. Senator Klein was speaking, so... [[No, it's an amendment... I've tabled amendments in writing.]] It's without Senator Kleina. [[Kleina was making his speech.]] [[These are amendments, not speeches.]] I would like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing by Senators Borusewicz, Rulewski, Augustyn, Wcisła, Fedorowicz, Senator Rotnicka, Senators Poślednik, Zientarski, Grodzki, Wach, Komarnicki, Rybicki and Czarnobaj. The discussion is closed. [[I haven't been read yet.]] Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? No? [[Florek's done it, too.]] [[Florek, Florek.]] [[Voices from the hall: More Florek.]] I'm filling in the list... [[The amendments are...]] Senator Florek made an amendment. Well, I'm reading what the Senator Secretary introduced me to. [[Florek made an amendment with me. It's about the clearing houses.]] As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held in the voting block. I'm asking Senator Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u144	High Senate, there are two messages. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances on the examination of requests submitted at the 70th Senate meeting to the 2019 Budget Act will be held today, i.e. 23 January, 30 minutes after the adjournment in room 217. The meeting of the Legislative Commission, during which the first reading of the draft resolutions commemorating Paweł Adamowicz, prints 1078 and 1079, will take place tomorrow, immediately after the meeting on family benefits in room 176. Thank you very much. [[One more thing...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u145	Thank you. [[One more thing, I'm sorry...]] [[Nine o'clock?]] [[Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind...]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u146	Further information, as a reminder, is that the editorial team of both the citizens' platform senators and the PiS are to meet immediately after the meeting to prepare a joint project for tomorrow's committee meeting. [[Where?]] Room 280, in the long hallway.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-01-23-senat-71-1.u147	Thank you. [[That's right now.]] I'm calling for a recess by 9:00 tomorrow. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 17 minutes 11]]
