ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Resume session. I am calling Members of Piotr Uściński, Piotr Olszówka, Daniel Milewski and Paweł Rychlik to be the secretaries of today's proceedings. Piotr Uściński and Piotr Olszówka will be members in the first part of the session. Hello, gentlemen. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Piotr Uściński and Daniel Milewski. Then we'll start with the messages. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 10, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 11, - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 2.30 p.m. and 2.30 p.m. 3.30 p.m., - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 15, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 16. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u3	Thank you very much. The Committee on Economic Affairs and Development submitted a report on the government draft law amending the Law on Industrial Property, print No 3838. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in this case the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice has withdrawn current information. Therefore, point 42 of the agenda for the examination of this information has become pointless. We proceed with the consideration of item 44 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on the ratification of the International Convention for Control and Management of Boat Ballast Waters and settlements, 2004, drawn up on 13 February 2004 in London (prints No 3717 and 3739). Mr Piotr Pyzik will present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u4	Thank you, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the report of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, in print No 3739, on the Government's bill on the ratification of the International Convention on Control and Management with Ships, sorry, with static ballast waters and settlements, 2004, drawn up on 13 February 2004 in London, in print No 3717. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent the above draft law to the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation and the Committee on Foreign Affairs for First Reading on 31 July 2019. The Maritime Affairs and Shipping and Foreign Affairs Commissions, following their first reading and the examination of this draft law at its meeting on 9 August 2019, request the High Sejm to approve the draft law from print no.3713 without amendments. Signed: Deputy Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs Robert Tyszkiewicz, Chairman, Sorry, Chairman of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, Mrs Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk. Warsaw, 9 August 2019 And the rapporteur was me, or Piotr Pyzik. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u5	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Piotr Pyzik will speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u6	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Given the fact that salt water is over 70% our globe, and human activity and space is growing, the protection of the environment in maritime and ocean space is now one of the priorities for international shipping. Despite the existence of many international agreements, the threat to the marine environment on a global scale and the protection of the Baltic Sea require further effective organisational and legislative solutions, as stated in the explanatory memorandum. Given the fact that this convention was already drawn up almost, more than 15 years ago, exactly 13 February 2004, and given the standards it introduces... These include standards for the handling of ballast waters on ships, but in spaces such as the development and implementation of a ballast management plan on board and the keeping of a ballast record book. The aim is to introduce such standards of control and handling of ballast waters and sediments as referred to in that Convention which protect waters from various surprises that may include organisms that are not necessarily desirable in those waters on which the vessel is present at the moment. Implementation of the provisions of the Convention in Poland requires the preparation of national legal instruments, ensuring compliance of national law with international law. National solutions will minimise damage to the marine environment due to ballast operations on ships. These actions are necessary and the sooner they are implemented, the better it is for us and for the environment. Moreover, taking into account the identified social, economic, financial, political and legal consequences associated with the entry into force of this agreement, and taking into account, of course, issues such as the identification of sources of funding and the explanation of the method of binding the Republic of Poland to an international agreement, the Law and Justice Club is in favour of this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Norbert Obrycki, Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition, is absent. In this connection, Mr Marek Sawicki, club of the Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u8	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, my Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club - Coalition Poland is in favour of the Act on ratification, but it seems that in the long run the issue of ballast waters is important, but from the Baltic Sea's quality point of view It's really marginal. I think it is time for this inland water to be dealt with as soon as possible, because the possibilities for the exchange of Baltic waters with ocean waters are very limited. On the other hand, the Baltic is powered by huge rivers of land, rivers in which water quality She's not the best either. Moreover, for decades the problem of pollution, littering of the Baltic Sea with everything left behind after World War II has not been solved. There's so much junk in there that's gonna be a serious ecological hazard in a minute, corroding it. I think it's a challenge. not only for Poland but, above all, the challenge for the new European Commission: will it find a way and means to proceed with the purification of the Baltic Sea, otherwise we are threatened with having another Dead Sea in the north of Europe. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Stefan Romecki will be present on behalf of the Kukiz Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u10	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Kukiz Club15, it is my great honor to present my position on the Government's draft Act on the ratification of the International Convention for Control and Treatment of Bolt Ballast Waters and settlements, 2004, drawn up on 13 February 2004 in London, in print No 3717 and 3939. Proceded draft law concerning the inclusion of Poland in a group of countries which undertake to undertake comprehensive measures to fully and effectively prevent the introduction and spread of harmful aquatic organisms and pathogens transmitted in ballast waters of ships. The BWM Convention adopted on 13 February 2004 is the first international convention to introduce legal and technical instruments relating to the risk arising from movements of organisms in ballast waters. The introduction of alien species into new environments can lead to significant changes in the structure and dynamics of the marine ecosystem. They can also have a negative impact on people's lives, risking disease or even epidemics, and adverse effects on the economy, among others. cause losses in fisheries and aquaculture. In the fight against the spread of alien species, as well as their harmful effects on marine ecosystems, human health and the economy, it is essential to introduce a BWM convention that tackles this problem. It is now a priority to take action to protect the environment in international shipping. As we note, existing international agreements still do not provide comprehensive protection from threats and require further legislation. In view of the validity of these regulations, Kukiz15 supports the proposed project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u11	Thank you very much. No one at this point asked the question. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 45 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on the ratification of the Protocol amending the Convention on the Protection of Persons with regard to the Automatic Processing of Personal Data, drawn up in Strasbourg on 10 October 2018 (prints No 3696 and 3773). Mr Tadeusz Wozniak will present a report from the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u12	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft Act on the ratification of the Protocol amending the Convention on the Protection of Persons with regard to the Automatic Processing of Personal Data, drawn up in Strasbourg on 10 October 2018, contained in print No 3696. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 24 July 2019, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm addressed the above draft law to the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation of Modern Technologies and the Committee on Foreign Affairs for First Reading. The Commission for Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies and the Committee on Foreign Affairs after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 29 August 2019 unanimously invites the High Sejm to adopt draft legislation on printing no.3696 without amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u13	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Witold Czarnecki will perform on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u14	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present my club's position on the draft Act on the ratification of the Protocol amending the Convention on the Protection of Persons with regard to the Automatic Processing of Personal Data, drawn up in Strasbourg on 10 October 2018, seym prints No 3066 and 3773. The dynamic development of new technologies, globalisation and changes in the legal systems for the protection of personal data have led to the need to increase their legal protection. The aim of modernising Convention 108 of the Council of Europe on the protection of individuals with regard to the automatic processing of personal data is to adapt its wording to the requirements, to the challenges arising from the widespread application of new information and communication technologies and to strengthen its effects. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice recommends that the High House adopt this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Arndt, Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u16	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We are discussing a project which will authorise the President of the Republic to ratify the Protocol amending the Convention on the Protection of Persons with regard to the Automatic Processing of Personal Data. Usually, such laws do not arouse any emotions. I think it's the same in this case. Ratification of the 1981 document protocol is probably obvious. This was changed earlier, in 2018, but now it will be ratified because that is the need for time. Indeed, as my previous speaker said, due to the change in technology, globalisation, it is necessary to change the legal system of this convention and this law empowers the President to make such a change. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - The Civic Coalition will vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u17	Thank you very much, sir. I invite you to the speaker of Marek Sawicki, the Polish People's Party Club - Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u18	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland I would also like to express my support for this project. Personally, when I look at the pace of technological change, I still feel that when it comes to legislation and closing it in certain regulations, we still don't keep up. In my opinion, we approve what is already a historical version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u19	Thank you very much. As no one submitted a question at this point, the discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 46 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft Law on the ratification of Convention No 188 on Work in the Fisheries Sector, adopted by the General Conference of the International Labour Organisation in Geneva on 14 June 2007 (prints No 3749 and 3780). Mr Piotr Pyzik will present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u20	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on the Government's draft Act on the ratification of Convention 188 on Work in the Fisheries Sector, adopted by the General Conference of the International Labour Organisation in Geneva on 14 June 2007, print 3749. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, Article Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, sent the above draft law to the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, the Committee on Social and Family Policy and the Committee on Foreign Affairs for their first reading on 9 August 2019. Commissions: Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs and Committee on Foreign Affairs after first reading and considering this draft law on 30 August 2019 propose that the High Sejm adopt draft legislation on printing No 3749 without amendments. Warsaw, 30 August 2019, President of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, Ms Urszula Rusecka, President of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, Mrs Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk, rapporteur Mr Piotr Pyzik and President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr Grzegorz Schetyn. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u21	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, the speech will be presented by Katarzyna Czochar. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u22	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the draft Act on the ratification of Convention 188 on Work in the Fisheries Sector, adopted by the General Conference of the International Labour Organisation in Geneva on 14 June 2007. The International Labour Organisation has decided to establish a new instrument of international law, which would help to resolve these problems in a uniform way. The main provisions of Convention 188 concern the provision of decent working conditions for fishermen with regard to minimum requirements and working conditions on board a fishing vessel: accommodation and food, occupational safety, health and social security. By 28 May this year. 14 countries have ratified the convention. Ratification of the Convention and its implementation in the Polish legal order will allow for comprehensive regulation of life and work issues on fishing vessels. It will also enable the rights of fishermen as workers and the obligations of shipowners of fishing vessels to fishermen working on them to be sanctioned. When these considerations are taken into account, as well as the obligation to guarantee the rights of fishermen working on fishing vessels under the Polish flag on an equal footing with the rights of fishermen working on foreign vessels, ratification of Convention No 188 is desirable. This is why Parliamentary Club Law and Justice is in favour of this. ratification of the Convention. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u23	Thank you very much. And I invite Mr Piotr Misja. I don't see your MP. In this connection, Mr Marek Sawicki, club of the Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u24	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Very briefly. My club, like the previous speaker, is in favour of this convention, for ratification, we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u25	Thank you very much. And Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u26	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Poselski Club15, I have the honour to present my position on the Government's draft Act on the ratification of Convention 188 on Work in the Fisheries Sector, adopted by the General Conference of the International Labour Organisation in Geneva on 14 June 2007, print No 3749. The amended bill introduces EU legislation to the Polish legal order aimed at comprehensive regulation of life and work on board fishing vessels, legal approval of fishermen as employees and obligations of shipowners of fishing vessels towards fishermen working on them. According to the International Labour Organisation, work in the fisheries sector has been considered relatively dangerous, given that many crews on board fishing vessels work in difficult, dangerous conditions that pose health risks and often even life. In order to address this problem in a global uniform manner, it was decided to establish a new instrument of international law. This Decision is expressed in Convention No 188 on Labour in the Fisheries Sector, which was adopted by the General Conference of the International Labour Organisation in Geneva on 14 June 2007. The new rules implement international labour standards on fishing vessels. Their introduction will enable the rights of fishermen as workers and the obligations of shipowners of fishing vessels to fishermen working on them to be sanctioned. There is no doubt that we should ensure that the rights of fishermen working on fishing vessels under the Polish flag are aligned with those of fishermen working on foreign vessels. In view of the above, the ratification of Convention No 188 is all the more appropriate and necessary, and Kukiz15 supports the proposed project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u27	Thank you very much, sir. As no one submitted a question at this point, the discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 47 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement establishing the International Agricultural Development Fund, drawn up in Rome on 13 June 1976 (prints No 3750 and 3814). Mr Jan Duda will present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u28	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the joint committees: the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I have the honour to present a report on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement establishing the International Agricultural Development Fund, drawn up at Rome on 13 March 1976, print No 3750. A few words about the project. High Seym! The Republic of Poland is a member of two of the three United Nations organisations dealing with agricultural and rural issues, i.e. The United Nations Food and Agriculture Organisation and the World Food Programme. The third of these organisations is the International Agricultural Development Fund, founded in 1977. It is an international financial institution based in Rome. It's a specialized UN organization with international legal personality. The idea of her appointment was born at the World Food Conference, which took place in Rome in 1974 and also attended by representatives of Poland. The main impetus of the fund was the global crisis in the food markets, which caused hunger and malnutrition in many regions of the world, mostly in the poorest countries in Africa. At the conference, it was agreed that it would be appropriate to set up an International Agricultural Development Fund to finance development projects in agriculture, in particular in the field of food production and in the financing of projects and programmes aimed at introducing, extending or improving food systems. Today, the fund brings together 176 Member States, both developing countries and middle and high income countries, from all regions of the world. Its members may be any State belonging to the UN, its specialised organisation, and the International Atomic Energy Agency. Poland's accession to the fund will confirm the country's commitment to increasing international engagement. This will enable us to participate in the debate and decision-making processes for global development, and due to the special competences of the rural development fund, Poland can contribute to the development of an international agricultural and rural development strategy in consultation with the G7/G20 partners. Poland's accession to this organization will open Poland's ability to influence the activities of this organization, will also allow to engage in transnational issues, international development policy and humanitarian actions undertaken by the international community for the benefit of those suffering from poverty, hunger and malnutrition, especially in rural areas. After the agreement enters into force, we predict that Poland will significantly increase international cooperation in the field of agriculture and will gain opportunities to promote its own agriculture, among others. through the transfer of Polish technologies to developing countries, the exchange of know-how with other highly developed countries, access to the specialized knowledge of the fund in order to achieve national development goals and through many other projects. The membership of the Fund shall not involve any compulsory contributions to its budget. Payments are purely voluntary. Currently, around 100 Member States voluntarily support the Fund through financial contributions. No member of the fund shall be liable for its membership for the activities or obligations of that organisation. The entry into force of the agreement will not entail changes in the internal law of the Republic of Poland. In conclusion, on 5 February 2019 the Council of Ministers agreed to submit an application for membership of the Republic of Poland to the International Agricultural Development Fund. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Following the first reading of this draft law, the Joint Committees on Agriculture and Rural Development and Foreign Affairs, meeting on 10 September 2019, welcomed the above proposal and requested its adoption without amendments. On behalf of WW. I ask the High House to adopt the bill submitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u29	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Zbigniew Dolata will perform on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome. There's no envoy. In that case, Mr Kazimierz Plocke, Civic Platform Club - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u30	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Mr Jan Duda, the rapporteur of the committee, described in detail the reasons for the draft print law 3750, and I therefore wanted to state briefly that the Civic Coalition will vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Sawicki, Polish People's Party Club - Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u32	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Also the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland supports accession to this convention. On the other hand, I would like to make it clear that my experience has shown that unfortunately this organisation of food problems does not effectively address hunger problems in the regions of the world. Indeed, it is high time to lean very hard on this, because it seems that what we are dealing with in developed countries, countries of America, Europe, including Poland - with this huge amount of wasted food and the lack of a way to easily, cheaply redistribute excess food from these areas to starvation areas, lack of resources to support the possibility to resume or start agricultural production in other continents, in areas affected by hunger - these are the challenges that, if they are not resolved in the coming decades, will contribute to subsequent migratory waves, and these, as we know, bring with them various concerns. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u33	Thank you very much. Does any of your fellow Members - because I do not see the Members - still want to join the list of people who want to ask questions at this point? I can't see. So I close the list. The question will be asked by Mr Paweł Kobyliński, Club Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. One minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u34	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! It'll be more of a statement. I wanted to say it was an honor to perform in front of this House, especially when I had you, your marshal, behind my back. Thank you so much for these moments. You're a wonderful marshal, and thank you for that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u35	Thank you very much, Mr President, for these words. They are, of course, very upbuilding to me. But there's a time for statements, and now there's questions. I understand that no one from the ministry will speak at this point. So I'm closing the discussion. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 48 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2020 - the year of the marriage of Poland with the sea in Puck (prints no. 3322 and 3703). Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska will present a report to the committee. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u36	Thank you very much, Marshal. I hope you can hear me. Sudden voice failure. Then I'll be very brief. You'll have to excuse me. The Commission considered the draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2020 of Poland's marriage to the sea in Puck on 31 July. The resolution was adopted unanimously, after a very interesting discussion in which the comments of all Members were taken into account. I could put an end to this - requesting that the High House also unanimously accept this proposal - if it were not for such a little thing that I wanted to draw attention to. The project was submitted to the Marshal's staff on 15 March. The Commission considered it on 31 July. And we take care of him in mid-October. I do not know why such a non-conflictal, so obvious and necessary resolution had to go through such a long and difficult legislative path. I hope this is the end of the trouble of this project. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u37	Thank you very much, Madame, for presenting the report despite your medical condition. I wish you well, then. We move on to the next part of this point. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Krzysztof Ciebiada will perform on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u38	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I am pleased to recommend this resolution as regards the Committee on Culture and Media. As far as the Law and Justice Club is concerned, we recommend this resolution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Plocke, Club Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, will present the position of this club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u40	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On February 10, 1920 General Józef Haller, called a blue general or a flawless general, married Poland with the sea. These weddings were, are and will remain an extraordinary historical event in the consciousness of Poles, Pomerania and Kashubians. It is worth mentioning that wedding celebrations were unique in 1930. At the initiative of the Maritime and River League, an honorary committee was established, composed of the President of the Republic of Poland Ignacy Mościcki, Marshal Józef Piłsudski, Minister of Industry and Trade Eugeniusz Kwiatkowski. General Józef Haller, Fr. Józef Wrycza and other participants of the first wedding of 1920. After the Second World War, in the reality of the Polish People's Republic, the memory of the wedding was alive among Kashubians, especially members of the Kashubian-Pomorskie Association, a branch in Puck. They have been celebrating subsequent anniversaries since the 1960s, despite the unfavorability of the authorities at that time. In 1970 a large religious-patriotic ceremony was held in Puck with the participation of Fr. bp. Mariana Przykutki from Pelplin and Fr. Hilary Jastak from Gdynia and a large group of Kaszubs. After 1989, weddings are organized with the participation of the City Hall of Puck and the surrounding local governments, the Maritime and River League, the Kashubian-Pomeranian Association in Puck, as well as the parish of St. St. Peter and Paul in Puck. Representatives of these institutions, I thank the offices for shaping patriotic attitudes among the inhabitants of Poland, Pomerania and Kashub. Let the 100th anniversary of the wedding be an excellent opportunity to assess how we have developed access to the Baltic Sea and how we strengthen our freedom and independence. Let the Polish sea continue. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, I declare that we will vote in favour of the draft resolution of the Sejm on the establishment of the year 2020 of Poland's marriage to the sea in Puck. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u41	Thank you very much. On behalf of the club Polskie Strontwo Ludowe - Coalition Polska Mr Michał Kaminski. But I don't see your MP. No one asked questions at this point either. I therefore close the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 9 min. 41 hrs. 9 min 43]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 49 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on condemning all acts of hatred and anti-Catholic contempt (prints 3552 and 3704). Mrs Elisabeth Sobeck will present the report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u42	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Culture and Communications on the draft resolution on condemning all acts of hatred and anti-Catholic contempt, print No 3552. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent the above draft resolution to the Committee on Culture and Media for first reading on 26 June 2019. The Committee on Culture and Media, after first reading and considering this draft resolution at its meeting on 31 July 2019, invites the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft resolution. Ladies and gentlemen! At the time of the first reading, the reasons for this draft resolution were presented, in which the applicants claimed that the resolution did not introduce any distinction, on the contrary, it implemented the right due to the communities and people participating in Catholic life to respect and solidarity in situations where they were subject to hatred and contempt. That is why we condemn anti-Semitism in national and international documents, which is why new concepts of this nature are increasingly emerging. A refusal to condemn hatred or anti-Catholic contempt would in this case be an obvious act of discrimination. In the resolution, we are not just talking about Poland. Specialist research institutes warn about the increase of hatred and anti-Catholic contempt in other European countries, e.g. France and Germany. It is both the intended desecrations, the numbers of which go into hundreds, and the more drastic acts, as the murder of Fr. Hamel or cases of abuse of Christian converts in refugee camps. In Poland on a smaller scale and in other forms, but these phenomena also occur also time to condemn them. Murderous act against Fr. Bakalarczyk, beating up Fr. The prelate of Ziejewski and the sacristian in his parish, the attack in Turku - all were motivated by hatred for the Church. During the committee debate, the sociological principle that social disorder is always a subterfuge of crime was recalled. Moral and solemn condemnation of anti-Catholic hatred and contempt is a form of moral disapproval of any spread of such attitudes, a step towards better Poland, in which there will be more respect and solidarity. The resolution consciously introduces a conceptual distinction, which is intended to guarantee justice and measure in the evaluations. Every act of anti-Catholic contempt, e.g. Methodical disgustment deserves moral condemnation, but not everyone is an act of hatred of this measure which has been multiplying the physical attacks on Catholic priests lately. We must condemn both, while maintaining both the universalism of the principles and the measure of assessment. The resolution has no criminal dimension. This is a different plane, functioning independently of Parliament. On the other hand, it is the position of the highest national representative in relation to the facts of the increasingly methodical hostility experienced by the community and those involved in Catholic life. Although the direct reason for submitting the draft resolution was the proliferation of violence against priests, and this is a memento that cannot be reacted to, the broader plan is part of the implementation of constitutional principles, especially the question of gratitude and responsibility for the Christian culture passed on to us by our ancestors. She cannot be the object of hatred and contempt in our homeland. It's time to be clear. So much for this resolution, the content of which is as follows: The resolution of the Polish Sejm on condemning all acts of hatred and anti-Catholic contempt. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland strongly condemns all acts of hatred and anti-Catholic contempt and calls for their condemnation of all entities of public life of the state and international organisations, public authorities and centres of public opinion. So much for the resolution, and I ask you to adopt this resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u43	Thank you, Madam President. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Tomasz Zieliński will perform on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u44	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the parliamentary draft resolution on condemning all acts of hatred and anti-Catholic contempt. Recently in our country there have been mass attacks on the most important values for Catholics, on things that remain sacred to us. Almost every month there were reports about events unimaginable in the history of the Third Republic of Poland, about events which in the worst way referred to the times of communist and systemic power at the time of the fight against the Church. I would like to cite some facts from recent months: Płock - profanation of the image of Our Lady of Czestochowa, on which the halo was placed in colors imitating the rainbow, Kwidzyń - desecration of the church, where the perpetrators broke and trampled the cross, poured alcohol into the sparrow with holy water, Gdańsk - parody of the procession of God's Body during the parade of equality, Warsaw - desecration of the Holy Mass during the parade of equality, Rypin - man of the axe tried to destroy the altar during the Holy Mass, Wrocław - priest was stabbed when he went to Holy Mass, Turk - assaulting a priest in the parish office, Szczecin - beating the parish priest, Poznań - simulation of the murder of the Kraków metropolitan. One of the main causes of these incidents is the verbal encouragement that we see from a small but noisy group of politicians who, recently, have named themselves defenders of the Constitution and called for tolerance, use the language of hatred themselves. Words that fall in public space call for contempt, envy, and promote the emergence of various forms of aggression against the Catholic Church. I will not quote from this speaker scandalous statements, whose pronunciation is skillfully fed by part of the media. The attacks on the Catholic Church have intensified with the approaching parliamentary elections and have become one of the main elements of the election campaign of some groups. The duality of politicians also manifests itself in hypocritical appeals addressed to the Holy Father. So let them take to heart the words of Pope Francis: Not only can you not assassinate your neighbor, but also pour out the venom of anger, attack someone with calumnia. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice calls on everyone to stop these activities. Public debate can be based on dispute, but above all on programme dispute. We categorically oppose attacks on the Catholic Church, which for more than 1000 years has been the backbone of Polishness, which in the most difficult moments for countries defended independence, and many priests, as blessed Fr. Jerzy Popiełuszko, was murdered, gave her life for Poland. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of this resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u45	Thank you. Mr Wojciech Król will present the position of the Civic Platform-Citizen Coalition club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u46	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I expressly state that we do not approve of violence against Catholics in any place in the world, we do not approve of violence against Christians in any place in the world, just as we do not approve of violence against Protestants, cyclists, teachers or artists, because we do not approve of violence against anyone. And that's what's important. We all have the right to social peace, respect for our dignity and security. And do you really think that in a country where clergymen are invited to every city's country celebration, they drop holy water on the square, pavement, buses, police cars, where they are kept with voluntary donations of the faithful, and they would certainly have given up their seats on the bus if they got on it... Do you really think that in our country the Church is persecuted, that it is met with notorious hatred and contempt? Because of course there are places in the world where the Church is persecuted, but dear country, this does not happen in Poland. Because what are we supposed to call the situation of a church in Nigeria where Catholics are murdered and burned alive? Will we not be ashamed of the content of this resolution? The Polish Church and Catholics in our country are not persecuted. Once again, I stress: it does not lie on anyone invented for the purpose of this resolution - because this is what is written in the justification - the political homosexual movement. If I see any danger to the Church somewhere today, then in you, in the politics cynically using the Church for political purposes. Because the Polish Church, yes, is in crisis, but will not rise from it thanks to such resolutions. Ladies and gentlemen! The Polish Church, Catholics deserve respect, just as every community of people in a democratic country. But this respect cannot be written down in a resolution, it needs to be worked out, it needs to be earned, it needs to be taken care of. I am sure that this will not be helped by any legal acts, but by an honest reflection on the place of the Church in the political and social system of the state. A resolution condemning hatred in its justification cannot separate people, it cannot express contempt. I'm giving you this under consideration. The church in Poland is not persecuted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Klawiter, a non-attached Member, will also speak at this point. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u48	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The right hand of the Republic, which I represent, together with the Kukiz club15, decided to prepare such a draft resolution, because the situations that were mentioned a moment ago unfortunately appear already on a very large scale. Catholicism and Catholics are victims of notorious persecution and hostility in many parts of the world. Now it started in Poland as well. The sad thing is that we also see a very big commitment to action, let's say, from foreign forces. These are not just our actions. There's an impulse in the form of foreign funds, etc. Such actions will lead to the destruction of the peace that once was. Of course, an attempt to murder Fr. Ireneusz Bakalarczyk was, at least in our opinion, the moment when these physical acts began to drastically dominate. On the other hand, we must draw attention to the second element of acts of hatred. These are normal blasphemies, that is contempt for our Christian values, etc. It's started a long time ago. Let us remember the installation in the form of genitals on the cross of 2001, the Golgota Picnic, the Curse at the Universal Theatre. This is a series of events in which our greatest values were mocked. For me personally, it would be better to see your own puppet hanged or burned than the most holy sacrament desecrated in a procession imitating the procession of God's Body. This is absolutely unacceptable to us. Therefore, we must civilisely resist it. It's not like we're gonna do what the Muslims did with the French monthly magazine, I think it's Charlie Hebdo. Muslims murdered some people out there who desecrated their values. And those acts... I have a question for my predecessor. He was talking about stalking cyclists, saying they're being persecuted, too. Are Cyclists Persecuted With Us? I've never heard of it. Mr Wojciech the King asked such questions. These acts of hatred and contempt destroy our nation because they destroy our fundamental values. Let me remind you that in 996... The development of our nation, our nation, has since been associated with Christian values. The whole of Europe has grown on this foundation. We must therefore respect the nation, the state and the values on which it is founded. That is why these acts of hatred must be called and condemned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Majka, a non-attached Member, also spoke. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u50	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! About the point about acts of hatred... [[♪ The bell ♪]] I only had a second? That's pretty interesting.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u51	Mr President, wait a moment, not comment. There's no need. I'm sure you'll get your time very soon. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u52	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As far as the issue of the resolution on hatred is concerned, in my opinion the religious or political aspect comes from the fact that there is no respect for Polish national values in Poland. Why? Because the level of narration in the media and the level of narration in social and political life is limited to what Schopenhauer wrote about rhetoric, the point of which is to deny the arguments of the other party. At the time of Poland's entry into the European Union... I recall how in 2003 I was in Rome, in the Vatican, where young people protested against the entry into the European Union. I must say, I was amazed that the carabiners of those young people who protested at the time... They were just stopped. I saw it with my own eyes. This shows, please, that the mentality and thinking of most political elites in the European Union boils down to the fact that they believe that Christian culture is to be erased from history, among other things. Polish country, but also e.g. the French State, in whose example we see it. What has been happening in Poland lately, ladies and gentlemen, to me, is unbelievable. Can you imagine Mr. Nergal in the Islamic state tearing up the Koran? But somehow in Poland it goes through without much echo, there are no social, national protests. I have to say, this is amazing. And one last thing, very important. There is so much talk about anti-Semitism in Poland, ladies and gentlemen, and there is little talk about a very important issue, namely anti-polonism. In this case, in this term which is already ending, I have submitted a statement to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. I saw from the answer that Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, from what I can see, also the High House, does not see a major problem when it comes to anti-polonism. What's amazing? There are Jewish celebrations in the Polish Sejm. Can you imagine that a celebration such as Christmas could be held in the Parliament of Tel Aviv? It's unthinkable. From this tribune - this is the last day on which I am a Member - I wanted to strongly protest against such practices, so that in the Polish Seym there would be celebrations that had nothing to do with Polish culture. That, of course, is my opinion. I believe that all acts of hatred, all acts of anti-Polonism are even more dangerous than anyone thinks. In my opinion, until there are free media in Poland, until preventive censorship is abolished in Poland, much will not change in Poland. I would like to remind you that on 19 July 2019 on my initiative I conducted a protest before the Polish Press Agency and before the Polish Television. There were about 50 people there, from 50 to 70 people. This is a symbolic act of my protest against breaking the law, Art. 54 of the 1997 Constitution and Article. 6 and 10 Press Laws. Finally, I would like to thank you, my constituents and Poles sincerely for your cooperation, for my work and for your work for a strong Polish country. I didn't run this election for some reason. I wanted to say that I bow to Poland, in front of Poles, and please just ask that... If I ever have the opportunity to run, I am at your disposal, at your disposal only the Polish state and only Poles. Thank you very much. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u53	Thank you. Since there were no questions in this... [[Questions. For questions.]] You're welcome. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u54	Dear Marshal! This is a very difficult discussion. She should be calm. Poles should have values such as tolerance and respect for man as their primary value. Great Poles, John Paul II, President Walesa, Tadeusz Kościuszko, Pułaski, showed the world that it is possible to unite people, not divide them. Professor Bartoszewski said: If you don't know how to behave, behave decently. I have a hot appeal to ladies and gentlemen of Members that we should discuss, not share, discuss how to combine, talk about what we can give Europe and the world, and not show quarrels, disputes, contentions - here in Poland, show that we respect constitutional values and they are [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's important to us. With this appeal I appeal to all ladies and gentlemen of Members, as well as to all Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u55	Thank you, Mrs Krystina Skowronska. I have a question for the rapporteur, Elizabeth Sobecka: Would you like to speak? [[Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u56	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I just wanted to remind you that we don't fight, we just want to talk about the facts that happened, because hate is also an expression of contempt. That's for example. desecration of the painting of Our Lady of Czestochowa in Płock at night on 26 April 2019. The attack in Płock is an element of the fight against the Church. We have to say this. There is no doubt that it is an attempt to undermine the authority and credibility of the Polish Church and that it is a thoughtful and supported by appropriate means by the campaign of evil. This attack is an attempt to close the mouth of the Church, who tells the truth about man and proclaims the Gospel. We know that the Church in Poland does not give in to the left, he has proved this repeatedly, and therefore the attack in Płock only harms those who made it because it exposes hypocrisy. Another matter: the March of Equality in Gdansk on 25 May 2019, the obscene desecration during which the procession of God's Body was performed, placing the vagina in the place of the Most Holy Sacrament. This is another example of the progressive tolerance imposed on Poles by the LGBT ideology environment. And you can multiply all these facts. I just wanted to say that this hatred also manifests contempt. Please weigh the words here, because we do not want to start any war, we care very much about the agreement of Poles, only that we ask for respect and that such facts do not take place anymore. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u57	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on this motion for a resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 40 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the Government's draft law amending the Industrial Property Law (prints No 3664 and 3838). Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz will present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u58	Mrs. Marshal! Tall, though few, Sejm! Minister! I am pleased to present a report by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the Government's draft law amending the Industrial Property Law, print no.3664. Sejm at its 86th meeting on 11 September 2019 pursuant to Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development for consideration. The Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, after considering this draft law at its meetings on 14 and 15 October 2019, asks the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. Five amendments were tabled at yesterday's committee meeting and these amendments were accepted by the government party. The other amendments were more editorial, and therefore there was no need to vote on them, and the Legislative Office was authorised by the committee to make these amendments. Therefore, the project that I am proposing right now is already a complete project. We are asking as a committee for the High Sejm to adopt the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u59	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Wiesław Krajewski will present his speech on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u60	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the governmental draft law amending the Industrial Property Law, print No 3664. The amendment of the Law of 30 June 2000. Industrial property law results from the need to eliminate errors in the implementation of Directive 2004/48/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 on the enforcement of intellectual property rights identified by the environment. The amendment implements into the Polish legal order certain legal institutions known under the Convention on the granting of European patents, in particular adapts the conditions for obtaining patent protection and introduces the right to restrict the patent by amending patent reservations. The draft law modernises Industrial Property Rights, which is one of the main instruments for implementing innovation policy. The amendment takes into account the demands made in the White Paper on innovation in the field of industrial property by the environment concerned, in particular entrepreneurs. New regulations will put in place the instruments of supervision of the Polish Patent Office which the Minister competent for Economic Affairs and the principle of cadence of office of the President will have. It's a five-year term. Individual solutions make the protection system efficient and friendly to the rightful, in particular those interested in the protection of industrial property objects both in Poland and in the world. Polish entrepreneurs will be able to obtain protection of exclusive rights in a simpler and faster way, which will allow to build competitive advantages based on a strong brand and unique technical and technological solutions, especially in IT industries. The adoption of this regulation will simplify and shorten proceedings before the Patent Office of the Republic of Poland, increase the competitiveness of the national system in relation to proceedings before the European Patent Office and the European Union Patent Office. Intellectual property, which will be a strong support for the growth of innovation of Polish companies. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the above, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the proposed government bill amending the Industrial Property Law. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u61	Thank you very much, sir. And I invite Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, who will present his speech on behalf of the Civic Platform-Citizen Coalition Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u62	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Madam President! Mrs Fellow and Mrs Fellowship! I am pleased to present the position of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition club in relation to the bill submitted to amend the Industrial Property Law Act. As we read in the explanatory memorandum, the amendment of the Law of 30 June 2000 on Industrial Property Law, hereinafter referred to as "Industrial Property Law," is the consequence of the need to eliminate environmental errors related to the implementation of Directive 2004/48/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004. The draft also contains a number of provisions adapting to the provisions of the Convention on the granting of European patents and regulations of a regulatory nature or explanatory provisions of interpretation doubts in practice. The amendment implements into the Polish legal order certain legal institutions known under the Convention on the granting of European patents, and in particular adapts the conditions for obtaining patent protection of the invention and introduces the right to restrict the patent by amending patent reservations. At the committee's meeting, two issues were the most emotional: the issue of patenting as regards computer programs, and the issue of extending the catalogue of people who could represent applicants before the patent office. This second issue aroused the greatest emotion, because the existing patent associations considered that the exclusive representation of entities before the patent office should be maintained, because the competences of patent attorneys are so exceptional that in order to be careful about presenting documents and representing entities before the patent office, this should remain their responsibility. In this draft law, the Government presented a solution which extends the catalogue of individuals to both lawyers and legal advisers, assuming that extending this catalogue of persons will increase the ability to compete between the various persons who have such powers, as well as to increase the availability of such services for entrepreneurs or persons who will apply for different types of patents or rights. The Commission has shared the government's view that it is appropriate to extend this catalogue and has therefore accepted all the proposed amendments. The Civic Platform Club - the Civic Coalition will agree to this justification and to this course of reasoning presented by the government and will vote in favour of the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u63	Thank you very much. Given that at this point, no one came forward to ask the question... [[I'm checking in.]] Here you go, Mrs Sobecka. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u64	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister. I'd like to ask you if it's not a mistake to include one group of patent attorneys, lawyers, lawyers. In my view, it would be highly risky to propose to allow lawyers and legal advisers to substitute for technical applications in the face of differences in professions and the lack of preparation of lawyers and legal advisers for the proper performance of activities requiring technical knowledge. There is also a question about the scope of compulsory insurance of the civil liability of persons performing such technical assistance activities without due preparation [[♪ The bell ♪]] and without checking the skills by means of a State exam. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u65	Thank you very much. The answer to these questions will be the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology... [[Secretary of State, Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology, Marcin Ociepa: Secretary of State.]] Secretary of State? Well, that's what it says. Mr Marcin Ociepa, State Secretary at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology. I'm sorry about the mistake. Once again, Secretary of State, Mr Marcin Ociepa. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u66	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear Member, we have no doubt about this for many reasons. Firstly, because one issue needs to be settled once and for all: we are expanding the powers of lawyers and lawyers only in the field of industrial designs and geographical indications proceedings, not in the case of patents and utility models, i.e. this technical knowledge, which you spoke of, is not required in this case. Second line. I would say that we should also think about the fact that lawyers and lawyers are dealing with different areas. After all, we have lawyers who deal with criminal cases, e.g. defending the defendants - I apologize for such a hard saying - for murder and, on the other hand, we have lawyers who handle e.g. the issue of industrial property rights or pharmaceutical law, so they also have specializations. And it's on the one hand the decision of a lawyer and a lawyer, whether he's taking the case, whether he knows whether he can handle it or not, and on the other hand, it's the decision of a client whether he chooses a lawyer or another. Of course, he runs his own business, so he chooses - what we believe - but a professional. On the other hand, the European Commission has also pointed out that we are too narrowing down the number of people who can represent entrepreneurs, pointing out clearly that the number of patent attorneys or exclusive rights entrusted to them is too restrictive of economic freedom in this area and is too restrictive of freedom of choice for businesses themselves. And let me remind you that this is exactly what we're going to do, i.e. However, we would like patents or industrial designs to be as much as possible, so that the availability of such services is as broad as possible. Last sentence, if your marshal will allow it. I would point out that similar solutions, i.e. The powers of lawyers and legal advisers exist in the European Union, such as Austria, Belgium, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Cyprus, Denmark, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Malta, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. They do not only occur in the territory of Bulgaria and Romania. Latvia and Lithuania have slightly more complex rules. This shows that this solution, which we are proposing today, we are giving attention to the High House, is widely used in the European Union and will encourage Polish entrepreneurs to benefit from a maximum range of opportunities in terms of representing their applications in the course of proceedings before the Patent Office of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u67	Thank you. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology, Mr Marcin Ociepa, answered the questions. For our justification that we have presented a different position: this is because this other position is still in the documents of the Sejm. As an answer to the questions asked has been given, the discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed to the examination of item 28 of the agenda: Information for the Polish Sejm and Senate on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period January-June 2019 (conductorship of Romania in the Council of the European Union) (print No 3610) with the Commission's draft resolution (print No 3699). Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr Konrad Szymański will present the information. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u68	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the six months that have already been relatively long gone, I would like to draw the attention of the High House to the work that has accompanied the preparation of the new personal decisions, no less important work on the strategic agenda of the European Union. The strategic agenda is a programme document, quite comprehensive, quite detailed, in line with Polish expectations quite detailed, which is intended to set the European Union's programme objectives, new institutions in the years 2019 to 2024. Poland has certainly presented the most detailed, most detailed contribution to the Union's strategic agenda for the next five years, while drawing a clear vision of the future of the European Union, in our view, in the most important aspects, of the most important challenges facing this organisation. Firstly, it is the future of the common market, a very often neglected element of integration, actually the backbone of integration, the only key element of growth, the resource of the European Union in terms of jobs, economic growth, which is not everywhere as it should be. Deficiencies, negligence on the performance of the Community market, in particular in areas such as the services market or the digital market, mean that we still cannot take advantage of all the opportunities attached to the Community market. Instead of the effective implementation of the Services Directive adopted in 2006, we now have about 5 000. national regulations in the various Member States of the European Union which make it difficult to exploit all the opportunities behind the Community market. The second point is the climate agreement. We have clearly pointed out that the new climate policy beyond 2020, 2030 and even 2050, some of the European Union's plans are so far-reaching, that the new climate agreement must take into account the diverse status of the Member States, the diverse situation of the various sectors of the economy, it must simply take into account the fair nature of climate change, energy towards climate neutrality. The third important issue, which is still not closed, is the European Union's migration policy. This migration policy varies due to the geographical situation of the Member States, due to the historical experience of individual Member States. Poland has its experience in this matter. We draw attention to the fact that the European Union can do more on migration policy, provided that we disable once and for all the extremely toxic and harmful idea of forced migration or relocation, which is constantly raised somewhere in the corridors. Another issue is the future of defence policy. Poland does not exclude that the European Union can play a greater, more important role in security, but we note that this must be done in full agreement, in full agreement, of synergies with NATO, which will remain the main instrument of security architecture for the Western world. The last point, I think, is particularly important for the Sejm, a very clear position on the role of national parliaments in the decision-making process of the European Union. Poland takes the view that all democratic deficits, which we often talk about in the European Union, can be covered primarily by the real inclusion of national parliaments in the decision-making process. I think that, in particular, the very bad experience of the European Commission's disregard for the large Polish contribution and the large contribution of this House, the resistance to the Posting of Workers Directive, has shown that the current solutions to the role of national Parliaments are completely papery, empty, with nothing to do with national Parliaments, which is contrary to the intentions of creating a protocol on the role of national Parliaments accompanying the Treaty of Lisbon. This matter must be corrected, national parliaments must have the power to reject definitively, not conditionally, some of the legislative initiatives of the European Commission. We have shown, by making this contribution to the strategic agenda, that Poland, firstly, has a vision for the future and has a vision for solving key problems and key tensions that are still in the European Union today. She also showed good will on the part of Poland, because all these documents are constructive documents showing how to come out of these problems and not to deepen them. We expect that the next five years, not only due to personal changes, but also due to experience so far, negative experiences related to crises, political tensions that concern the European Union, will allow us to simply exit these deadlocks. Poland expects this because we want to succeed in the process of European integration. These six months of the Romanian Presidency, of course, are also the next six months of work on the multiannual financial framework. No progress can be said here even in the context of the next months that have passed since then. There are still radical differences of interest. Perhaps even the map of interests is the same as in the case of previous, always difficult budget negotiations, but it can certainly be said that these budget negotiations are historically the most difficult, because the differences in political positions are presented much more categorically by all participants in the dispute. Poland has a vision of an agreement on the multiannual financial framework. We note that new defence or migration objectives can only be achieved by finding new money. This logic follows, I believe, every budget debate in every assembly, including the Polish Sejm. We do not accept, we do not agree that the new objectives, the arbitrary ambitions for these new objectives, should be financed directly at the expense of the interests of Member States whose development interests are closely linked to cohesion policy or the common agricultural policy. This concerns the countries from Lisbon to Bratislava, of course with Poland at the head. In the context of the MFF, I would like to draw attention to the fact that one of the most important problems that has been addressed by this debate was the problem of the idea of a budget specifically dedicated to the euro area. The originally announced budget of the euro area, which could actually bring institutional, legal and most likely budgetary divisions, was in line with Polish expectations... This idea, this idea, has been implemented in such a way as to include it in the multiannual financial framework, so as not to undermine the interests of non-euro area countries and euro area countries, nor to generate unnecessary institutional divisions in the European Union. This solution is satisfactory. This problem is still not closed, resolved to the end, but in the direction of the decision to put the instrument for stability, convergence of the euro area within the framework of the multiannual financial framework, is in line with Polish expectations, because in principle we are interested in getting the euro area to overcome its internal tensions, problems and come out of the crisis. The Romanian Presidency is also an important decision on energy security. We managed to break the patch, impasse in the Council of the European Union and adopt a compromise version of the Gas Directive. Of course, Poland was interested in the gas directive being shaped by the European Parliament. The European Parliament's position was closer to the Polish position in this respect, while the alternative to the compromise was the lack of any legal solutions for gas infrastructure, mainly on the outskirts, at the borders of the European Union. Poland has therefore decided to support the work on the compromise and to ensure that the Gas Directive, the amendment to the third energy package, enters into force. This is significant progress in terms of the role of the European Union. This amendment certainly does not allow the European Commission to do nothing in view of what is happening with Nord Stream 2. Firstly, the Directive obliges the appointment of an independent operator, secondly, introduces a tariff control, thirdly introduces a cost control. It's a very important change. We will see to it that the new European Commission is fulfilling its obligations under this amendment, and we know that this is not always the case. An example of the fact that the committee sometimes neglects its obligations to ensure equal competition in the energy market is the issue of the OPAL pipeline. Poland has decided to confront the European Commission before the Court of Justice of the European Union on a decision that has de facto offered Gazprom a total monopolistic participation in the OPAL pipeline, which is a pipeline for Nord Stream 1. This issue has been won by Poland and, of course, it is important for energy security here and now in our part of Europe, but it is also of systemic importance. This decision sets out a judicial interpretation of the principle of energy solidarity, which will apply to any other gas infrastructure, including Nord Stream 2. We will pay close attention to whether all the consequences of this decision are implemented by the Commission and by the Member States, their institutions, in this case above all German institutions, because they must be implemented, implemented in accordance with European Union law. As regards the other important things that I have already mentioned, I would like to point out that at the end of the Romanian Presidency we have entered into a real agreement on the principles of energy and climate change. Poland opposed the adoption of very general commitments on climate neutrality in 2050, but not to reject this objective for the principle. In view of the differing positions, the situation of Member States, regions, but also economic sectors, Poland expects this objective to be built up with compensation tools and a clear distribution of commitments and burdens in this regard. It's a decision. of fundamental importance to the economy, but also to societies, so we expect that the agreement on this matter will simply assume the fair nature of climate change in the European Union. Another issue is work on the asylum package. The Polish position on this issue is clear. There is still no progress here due to the lack of willingness of the Member States to adopt the compromise version of the package. This compromise must exclude any form of relocation or forced migration at European Union level. Then a great deal of opportunities will open up to the European Union. Poland is willing to counter the migration crisis at the external borders, whether it is the border for which we are directly responsible, like the border on Bug, or the border for which other countries are directly responsible, often in fact unprecedentedly exposed to migratory pressures. The Romanian Presidency is also the time for the initial date of the brexite. This was supposed to be March 29th. Britain's exit from the European Union is, of course, a negative fact. From the very beginning, in 2016 Poland did everything to ensure that a negative referendum decision would not take place. The outcome of the referendum is clear. The only thing that remains is to ensure that Brexit runs peacefully, organized and based on an international agreement. Therefore, Poland is determined to save UK exit agreements from the European Union, so that all elements, the objectives of this agreement: international guarantees of citizens' rights, financial clearance guarantees, Irish regulation and, no less important, the transitional period in the case of trade adjustment not only of countries, but above all of the companies, industries which today are strongly linked to the United Kingdom, are secured. Of course, in parallel, we could not expect only a positive scenario. We have undertaken very intensive work, which today is almost completed, in order to safeguard the rights of Polish citizens and the rights of Polish entrepreneurs, to secure maximum predictability in case Brexit takes place without a contract, in a chaotic, unorganized manner. We seem to have taken a half-step back today about this negative scenario. Once again, there have been opportunities for the revised agreement to be ratified by the EU and the UK, but there is a risk of non-contractual brexite, which is why this issue will, I think, be number one task for the European Union in the coming days. The six months of the Romanian Presidency, like the last four years - I think this is a good time to take a summary - have shown that Poland is determined to defend its political reasons, its interests even in very difficult political conditions, and such political conditions have not been our fault during these four years. But that's not all. Poland has also proven that it is willing to seek compromise and agreement wherever Polish rations and Polish interests are respected. Such a willingness of Poland to conduct an assertive but consensual policy in the European Union remains valid in connection with the new political cycle in the European Union. Poland can present a vision of constructive compromises. Poland is keenly interested in the success of the European project. It plays an important role for Polish prosperity, for Polish growth, perhaps also for Polish security. However, we expect what every mature country of the European Union expects, i.e. recognition of our beliefs, sensitivity and interests. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u69	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Dziedziczak will speak, who will present the reasons for the draft resolution. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u70	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to refer, on behalf of the Committee on European Union Affairs, to information on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union between January and June 2019, i.e. during Romania's presidency in the Council of the European Union, and to present a draft resolution of the Sejm on this matter. Information from the Council of Ministers on Poland's activities during the Romanian Presidency was adopted by the Committee for European Affairs on 5 July 2019 and was also forwarded to the High House on that day. The government information prepared thanks to the cooperation of all ministries and central offices is the 31st report of the Council of Ministers for the Sejm and Senate of the Republic of Poland from the participation of our country in the work of the Union during the next Presidency. The European Union Affairs Commission considered the information provided in print no 3610 at its meeting on 17 July this year. The information on behalf of the Council of Ministers was presented also today by Minister Konrad Szymański, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Minister presented the scope of the Presidency's work, its priorities and achievements, with particular emphasis on key issues for our country. High Izbo! The information relates largely to the four priorities of the Romanian Presidency: convergence in Europe, European security issues, efforts to strengthen Europe as a strong and global actor and the pursuit of common values for Europe. It should of course be remembered that the first half of 2019 is also, as it were, an independent time for the current Presidency to continue discussions on the future of the European Union in the context of brexit, the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework for 2021 and the preparations for the elections to the European Parliament in May. The first priority of the Romanian Presidency was convergence in Europe. The need to ensure sustainable and fair development for all European citizens has been stressed. It is worth adding that the Presidency has adopted the words as a motto: cohesion as a common European value, while stressing that it is necessary to promote a united Europe and its competitiveness at global level. The Presidency has taken a number of steps in the area of economic and monetary union and banking union. In line with Poland's demands, the broad formula of the Eurogroup meetings was maintained, full transparency and openness of the process of reform of the UGiW to countries outside the euro area. Action has also been taken to strengthen the internal market. Not all of them were successful. Poland supported the Presidency's proposals to increase competitiveness, to pursue the full implementation of its freedoms. From the point of view of Poland, it is particularly important to remove unjustified cross-border regulatory obstacles. In this respect, no progress has been made in the negotiations on the e-service card, i.e. the so-called. a notification directive. On the other hand, an agreement was reached between the European Parliament and the Council on a directive against the phenomenon of double quality of products of the European Union, which will contribute to the unity of the internal market in Poland's assessment. Within the framework of the convergence priority, the Presidency also dealt with the reform of the common agricultural policy after 2020, also in the context of the new multiannual financial framework. Poland welcomes the work carried out, while stressing that the arrangements for adequate financing of the CAP will remain crucial for us. During the Presidency, a number of work was also carried out in the field of climate policy, environmental protection and energy policy. Intensive work has been carried out on the European Union's long-term low-carbon strategy. The Presidency has also completed its work on a directive on disposable plastic products. The revision of the EU's energy policy framework in the "Clean energy for all Europeans" package has also been completed. Climate policy issues will still be the subject of the work of the European Council. Guidelines on this matter should be presented by the end of this year. In Poland's view, however, the evolution of the economy and energy must take place in a safe way for citizens, the economy and the Member States. Poland opposes raising reduction targets without indicating compensation instruments for the most vulnerable industries, regions and countries, while it supports provisions aimed at reducing plastic consumption and using alternative materials. Finally, when it comes to convergence, it is also worth mentioning the agreement reached on the revision of the so-called. the gas directive. The negotiated wording of the document will ensure greater consistency and transparency of the rules. The second priority of the Romanian Presidency is a secure Europe. Particular emphasis has been placed on the internal security of the European Union, the management of external borders, cybersecurity and counter-terrorism. It is worth noting that, during the Romanian Presidency, work on the regulation on strengthening the European Coast Guard and the Border Guard has been completed. As a result, the capacity to support Member States' border protection activities has been strengthened and the operational capacity of the guards has been enhanced. According to Poland, the gradual development of the guards, accompanied by the development of the potential of the Member States, and the provision of an adequate level of funding, is desirable. The development of the guards should also not have a negative impact on the implementation of Member States' external border protection obligations. During the Presidency, further work was also undertaken on the so-called. the Return Directive and the reform of the Common European Asylum System. In Poland's view, return policy is an important element in improving effective migration management and increasing security in the European Union. Work on the WESA package has not been completed, but has been requested, among others. by Poland, the package approach will enable consensus to be reached and ensure full and coherent implementation of the reform in the future. The Presidency has also undertaken a number of activities to promote cooperation with the countries of origin. Romania's third priority during the Presidency was to strengthen the external relations of the European Union. Initiatives have been taken in various fields: defence, enlargement and neighbourhood policy, trade policy. The Presidency has supported the Union's efforts to develop defence capabilities, consolidate them and strengthen the security of the Union. Action was welcomed to strengthen the strategic partnership between the European Union and NATO, as well as in the context of the participation of non-EU NATO countries in EU defence projects under permanent structural cooperation. Work continued on the Union enlargement package for the Western Balkans. The Presidency promoted the development of dialogue between the countries of the region. It is worth noting that during the Romanian Presidency, the agreement with Prespa ended the long-term Greek-Macedonian dispute. In the assessment of Poland, enlargement of the Union should be one of the strategic objectives in the coming years. It is also very important to maintain an appropriate dynamic of cooperation with the Eastern Partnership countries, which celebrates the 10th anniversary this year. Following this event, the Presidency has engaged in a number of activities in the Union's neighbourhood. One of the key tasks of the Presidency in the area of the Union's international relations was to increase its trade potential by concluding and extending free trade and economic partnership agreements. Poland supports such solutions in so far as they offer bilateral opportunities to develop trade and remove barriers, especially for the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. The last priority of the Romanian Presidency is cohesion, particularly in the social dimension. This is a value to be taken care of in Europe, which Romanians believe should be stimulated by constant reference to common values. The Presidency has been working on a number of legal acts to eliminate pay gaps, promote equality in the labour market, create labour offices or work-life balance. Poland supported the Presidency's conclusions on equal pay, but made various comments and reservations about other solutions. High Izbo! I would also like to refer in a few sentences to the important issues covered by the work of the Romanian Presidency, which, however, are not directly related to the Presidency cycle itself. With regard to the multiannual financial framework for 2021 and 2027, it should be noted that discussions continued during the Romanian Presidency, which concluded the adoption of a report by the European Council in June this year on the progress of the negotiations. It was established that the first substantive discussion on the new MFF at European Council level would take place in October and that a potential agreement could be reached by the end of this year. During the Romanian Presidency, intensive work has been carried out to prepare for a possible non-contractual departure from the Union by the United Kingdom. During the Presidency, the European Council decided to postpone the brexit deadline from 31 March to 31 October this year. An additional 7 months was intended to help reduce the risk of unconventional brexite, but, as we know, the risk of the British Parliament not ratifying the agreement still exists. Poland supported and supported efforts to avoid an unconventional brexite. With regard to future trade relations, we support the conclusion of a free trade agreement or even more ambitious solutions. We continue to insist on the need to maintain as close as possible relations with the United Kingdom regarding foreign policy, security and defence. In view of the May elections to the European Parliament, which marks the beginning of the new institutional cycle of the European Union, debates on the strategic objectives of the Community have been finalised during the Romanian Presidency for the next five years. The opportunity to summarize this period and clarify priorities for the coming years was the meeting in Sibina on 9 May. It resulted in the adoption by the European Council in June of a strategic agenda for 2019 and 2024 identifying the priority areas of Union activity: the protection of citizens and freedoms, the development of a strong and vibrant economic base, the building of a climate-neutral, ecological, fair and social Europe, the promotion of European interests and values on the world stage. It is worth noting that one important element of the debate on EU priorities for the coming years was the Warsaw Declaration on the Reunification of Europe adopted on 1 May by representatives of the 13 countries that joined the European Union after 1 May 2004. The Declaration stresses the importance of the Single Market, the need to underpin the Union's decision-making process on the principles of subsidiarity, proportionality and equality, the need to take account of the needs and development interests of all the Member States of the Union, and the strategic dimension of further enlargement and the importance of the Eastern Partnership. It is also worth noting that Poland presented - as a contribution to the strategic agenda - detailed positions defining our demands, among others. in areas such as the single market, migration policy, climate policy, defence and the role of national parliaments. High Izbo! During the Romanian Presidency, the work of the European Union's Committee on Affairs was intensive. The Commission held 21 meetings during which it regularly discussed its position on 28 EU documents with representatives of the government and rapporteurs. The Commission also took note of 38 information on the positions to be taken by the Council of Ministers, or at the time of the examination of legal acts at the meetings of the various sectoral councils. At this point, I would like to thank you very much for the cooperation of all ministers involved in the preparation of posts and the implementation of the statutory obligation to inform the Sejm and the Senate about them. In particular, I would like to thank Minister Konrad Szymański, with whom cooperation for our committee has been a great pleasure. Thank you, Minister. Between January and June 2019 the committee also dealt with a number of problems. She discussed it with the participation of others. Austrian and Romanian ambassadors to the Austrian Presidency, priorities of the Romanian Presidency. With the participation of Deputy Ministers of National Education, Science and Higher Education and Sport and Tourism, she considered information about the implementation of the With the participation of the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, she took note of the activities of the Open Dialogue Foundation and adopted an opinion on the subject. Together with the Commissions of Public Finance and Economy and Development, she considered information on the convergence programme and the national reform programme prepared by Poland in connection with the implementation of the European Semester. Finally, it adopted a dissertation on the regeneration of post-industrial sites in mining areas in connection with the initiative of the European Commission - the Mining Regions Support Platform. I would also like to inform you of the active activities of the Permanent Sub-Committee on the use of funds originating in the European Union, which held two meetings in the first half of 2019 and carried out two visits. The two meetings were also carried out by an extraordinary subcommittee on the energy policy of the European Union, which resulted, among others, in the course of the meeting. the said dissertation, adopted before the Commission for European Union Affairs. It is also worth mentioning that committee members actively participate in the various formats of parliamentary international cooperation. During the first half of 2019, committee members took part in cyclical meetings organised by the Romanian Presidency in the framework of institutionalised conferences. There have also been inter-parliamental meetings of industry committees in Bucharest and Brussels. Regional cooperation of EU nature and themes was also continued - within the Visegrad Group, the Weimar Triangle and the Baltic Assembly. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! As I mentioned at the outset, the European Union Affairs Commission considered the information provided in print no 3610 at its meeting on 17 July this year. As a result of the discussion, the committee adopted the draft opinion of the Polish Sejm in print no.3699, in which the Sejm accepts information from the Council of Ministers about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union between January and June 2019, i.e. during the presidency of Romania in the Council of the European Union. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u71	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Lech Kołakowski will present his speech on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u72	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present my position on behalf of the club Law and Justice on the draft resolution of the Sejm on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period January-June 2019, the presidency of Romania in the Council of the European Union. The Presidency's activities were directed by the debate on the future of the European Union after the brexite, the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework or preparations for a new institutional cycle in connection with the elections to the European Parliament in May 2019. The Presidency adopted the motto: cohesion as a common European value. Romania therefore wanted to emphasise the importance of returning to the basic objectives of building a community, i.e. promoting economic, social and territorial cohesion between Member States. The main priorities were convergence in Europe, a safer Europe, a stronger global actor and a Europe of common values. What is important, during the Presidency of Romania, a package of documents adopted by the EU in case the United Kingdom leaves the European Union without agreement was prepared in cooperation with the European Commission. Poland has stressed from the outset that it is a priority to guarantee the most orderly way out of the European Union of Great Britain and to ensure the highest possible level of security and predictability for citizens and businesses. Thank you for these actions and the government's involvement in the debate on the future of the European Union-UK relationship. Following the end of the institutional cycle during the Romanian Presidency, discussions on the strategic objectives of the EU for the next 5 years were held, which was concluded by the European Council in June 2019 with the adoption of the strategic agenda for 2019 and 2024. I would like to stress that the Polish contribution to the work on the new strategic agenda was one of the most detailed of all Member States' contributions. Among the priorities included in the text of the new agenda were, particularly highlighted by Poland, the objectives of deepening the common market or the development of transatlantic relations. The Strategic Agenda, i.e. the European Union's 2019/2024 plan, was adopted at the June 2019 European Council. The priority areas of EU activity identified in the agenda in the coming years include: protecting citizens and freedoms, developing a strong, vibrant economic base, building a neutral climate, green, fair and social Europe, promoting European interests and values on the world stage. An important element of the discussion on the priorities of the EU for 20192024 was also the Warsaw Declaration on the Reunification of Europe, our Union, our future, adopted on 1 May 2019 in Warsaw by representatives of 13 EU Member States that joined the European Union on 1 May 2004 or later. I would like to point out that the decision-making process in the EU should take into account the legitimate priorities of all Member States and of all societies. This will be particularly important after Brexit. An important aspect of the Romanian Presidency's work in the Council of the EU was the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework for 2021 and 2027. I share the direction of Poland's actions, as the quality of the final agreement on the future multiannual financial framework is more important than the pace of negotiations. Finally, I welcome Romania's commitment to the enlargement agenda and relations with the Western Balkans. Poland supports the process of enlargement of the Union and closer cooperation with the Western Balkans, as reflected in the organisation of the Western Balkans Summit in Poznań in July 2019. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to emphasise once again the active actions of Poland, a strong voice in the European Union. Therefore, on behalf of the club Law and Justice, I recommend the High House to adopt a resolution of the Polish Sejm in which the Polish Sejm accepts information from the Council of Ministers about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union between January and June 2019 during the presidency of Romania in the Council of the European Union. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u73	Thank you, sir. And I invite Mr Tomasz Głogowski, who will present his speech on behalf of the Civic Platform-Citizen Coalition Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u74	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - Civic Coalition on information about Poland's work in the first half of this year, i.e. during the Presidency of Romania in the European Union. We must start by saying that it was not an easy time for the Presidency, but it was important, because the European Union, including the Presidency, had to face difficult challenges such as preparing for brexit - and we still do not know whether the contractual or informal or timely or adjourned - and also because of the end of both the European Parliament and the European Commission's term of office, which ends at the end of October and the European institutions had to conclude their work. We must start by saying that Romania has handled the Presidency of the European Union well at that time. Such things as the adoption of the strategic agenda for 2019 and 20204, the strengthening of the role of the Coast Guard and the Border Guard, are things that need to be highlighted. Here my previous speaker also mentioned Romania's active support for the accession process of the Western Balkan countries to the European Union. I would also like to highlight this subject, because it is one of the few topics in which we can talk about the consensus of all political forces in Poland. All these forces support the aspirations of these countries. We hope that the accession negotiations of the European Union - and we would like to do so with Northern Macedonia and Albania - may still be possible in October. This was not due to Romania, but probably the Romanian Presidency will also be remembered as the moment of the end of the long-term dispute between Greece and Macedonia, from now on: Northern Macedonia. This will be an important step in the further enlargement of the European Union. During the discussion of the European Union's Committee on Affairs on this report, the issue of Poland's notification of a veto on CO2 neutrality provisions was most addressed, and this was a veto without a particularly constructive proposal. During the discussion on this subject, Minister Szymański spoke at the committee meeting about the lack of political and social conditions in Poland for the debate on energy transformation, he presented his conviction and his very large doubts as to whether there are conditions for determining what we are supposed to do in 2030, 2040 or 2050 in individual industrial areas in connection with possible planning for a zero-carbon CO2 economy. As you can imagine, this has aroused the reaction of the opposition Members who indicated that a few months ago we heard about the fact that an energy policy strategy was being prepared until 2040, and now we hear that we do not know exactly what we want to do, that we do not even have precise calculations, precise plans. And it seems that this discussion pointed to the main issue of the assessment of Poland's policy within the European Union - whether it is like the Minister said today that we are dealing with assertiveness, willingness to compromise, but whether there is a more justified assessment of the opposition, which speaks about the movement of Polish diplomacy on the outskirts of the European Union, referring to the possible reaching only for this veto in matters that are more important from the point of view of the Polish government, without looking for a compromise or a veto on environmental issues, on CO2 emissions, without presenting constructive solutions in areas where we need to look for solutions that are necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u75	Thank you very much. As no one has asked questions at this point, the discussion is closed. I propose that the Sejm immediately proceed to the second reading of the draft resolution. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to the second reading of the draft resolution. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak at the second reading of the draft resolution? There are no reports either, and I therefore close the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 50 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution on the establishment of 2019 in the Year of Barbara Skargi (prints No. 2302 and 3560). Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski will present a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u76	Mrs. Marshalkini! High Seym! I am delighted to be presenting the proposal of the Parliamentary Committee on Culture to celebrate 2019 with the Year of Barbara Skargi. I'm doing it with more satisfaction and pleasure that there's a full room in front of me. People want to know about Professor Barbara Skarga. As you can see, they're very interested. I think there's one person who listens to my speech, except for the marshal. This is, ladies and gentlemen, precisely this image and an expression of interest in culture, and that is what is very important for our public life. The things that shape our consciousness. What shapes our national identity, our Polish identity and consequently our European consciousness. Because certainly European was Barbara's Complainer, a professor who can be a unique example of toughness, courage, great cognitive appetite and at the same time something that can be called the need to discover new reality, but above all to build such a relationship with the world, with people, so that this world is a little better, a little fairer. At today's meeting, also curiazal, because it is completely unpredictable and we are all surprised that it takes place after the election, I would nevertheless like to say a few sentences about Prof. Barbara Skarga's work and fate, because it needs to be written out of this tribune. Barbara The complaint was born on 25 October 1919 in Warsaw. In 1937 she graduated from general secondary school in Vilnius and in the same year she started studying at the Faculty of Electrical Engineering at the Warsaw University of Technology. After graduating three semesters, she moved to the Humanities Faculty of the University. Stefan Batorego in Vilnius, taking philosophy as a specialization, as a side object - mathematics. When the University of Vilnius was wound up in December 1939, the complaint until 1944 attended the conspiracy seminars of its masters: Henryk Elzenberg, Czeżowski, Górski and Silver, passing all the exams provided. She also took part in conspiracy secondary education, teaching Latin and mathematics. At the same time, she became involved in the independent activities of the National Army, performing various functions, from the liaison to the field communications manager of the Vilnius district. For this reason, she was arrested by the occupation authorities and sentenced by the war tribunal of the Republic of Lithuania for 10 years in 1944, so just at the end of the war. Carried to the depths of the Soviet Union under penalty - in quotes, of course - directed to eternal exile to Kazakhstan, she was never to return to Poland. That was the Soviet government directive. Memories of this period prof. The complaint contained in a shocking book, the first woman's relationship with the camps after the liberation of 1944 1955. Next to the books by Józef Czapski and Herling-Grudziński, this is probably the most shocking and shocking story, a certificate of stay on exile. After the liberation, the book first appeared in Paris in 1985, because of course it had no chance to see daylight in the 1980s, in the times of the Polish People's Republic. Only, if I remember correctly, in 1997 it officially and legally appeared in Poland. Barbara The complaint came back to Poland in December 1955 and moved to Warsaw. In 1957, she obtained a master's degree in philosophy and took up work at the Institute of Bibliography and Documentation of Polish Philosophy of the Polish Academy of Sciences. In 1961 she was doctored at the University of Warsaw on the basis of the work of the Polish positivism prepared under the direction of Professor Nina Assorodobraj. Since 1962, she has worked at the Department of History of Modern Philosophy IFIS PAN as an aide. During that time, she remained in close contact with the so-called circle. The Warsaw School of Idea History, before this school was disintegrated as a result of the events related to March. In 1967, Barbara's complaint was based on the work of Ortodoxia and a revision of French positiveism. In 1975 she obtained the title of extraordinary professor and in 1988 the title of ordinary professor. In 1981 and 1984, so before the martial law and during a difficult period after its introduction, she was the president of the Committee on Philosophical Sciences of the Polish Academy of Sciences. She was a founding member of the Conspiracy Scientific Course Society, later transformed into the Society for Supporting and Growing Science, as well as a member of the PAU correspondent. Between 1993 and 2006 she was the editor-in-chief of the periodical "Ethics." In 1995 she was awarded the Order of the White Eagle by President Lech Wałęsa. In 2000 she received a doctorate in honoris causa at Nicolaus Copernicus University in Toruń. She is a laureate of many literary and scientific awards. Her book ran for the Nike. One of her basic works referring to the broadly understood human condition is the book, of course philosophical, entitled "Man is not a beautiful animal." Barbara Complaining after receiving the Order of the White Eagle from 2001 to 2005 served as chancellor of the Chapter. But in 2005 she withdrew from it as a sign of protest against what the candidate for President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński said at that time, claiming that candidates and those who obtained the Order of the White Eagle were awarded for their work for the Polish People's Republic. She was appalled and therefore resigned from her duties in this chapter. It is also worth remembering and bearing in mind that Prof. Barbara's complaint was a Calvinist. She was from a family of evangelicals. This is also very important, if you look at it from the perspective of these 4 years of working in the Sejm, when the Sejm of the Republic of Poland led to the failure to adopt a resolution, which was obviously prepared and rejected by Law and Justice. I'm thinking about the 500th anniversary reformation project here. Barbara Complaining on October 25 would celebrate her 100th birthday. It's a beautiful anniversary, it's something we should celebrate in a special way. Therefore, I have no doubt that the High Sejm should establish the year of Barbara's complaint. At the same time, I think that alongside Maria Janion and Prof. Witkowska she is one of those Polish philosophers who really decided about the expression and strength of Polish humanities. Barbara The complaint has always been a brave woman. And I want to read you the text of the resolution, because it largely gives away its integrity. It was a woman. That's right, she's unbreakable. I will read only part of this resolution, because this resolution contains a definite part of what I have said. However, I would like to add that her steadfastness was also aimed at such a common, falsely understood traditional way of celebrating heroism. She was a quiet hero, but at the same time a big one. She was a steadfast hero, but at the same time consistent and determined. She was describing her experiences of her stay in Kazakhstan, from this terrible conspiracy - she was called a torturer - and you could actually imagine that a shred of women, a shred of man would come back from there. Because Barbara's complaint was such a woman, such a man that it strengthened her strength and personality, as well as her citizenship. And when I think about adopting the year 2019 as the Year of Barbara Skarga, I would like you to remember this wonderful philosopher as a steadfast woman, a patriot, a citizen and a woman for whom philosophy was absolutely the meaning of life, who thought that without freedom no state makes sense. And for this freedom, for the strength of Polish freedom, for the strength of Polish democracy, for the awareness of Poles and Poles Barbara Complaining against some determination. I thank her very much for this and I hope that the Sejm will accept my offer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u77	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I invite you to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club by Mrs Agnieszka Soin. You're welcome. I don't see a Member. In that case, Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski - on behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u78	Mrs. Marshalkini! High Seym! I would like to add one or two sentences to what I wrote earlier. Well, thinking about the future of the Republic of Poland, thinking about how we will create this Republic in the coming years, how we will work for the Republic of Poland, it is worth considering the achievements of Barbara Skarga. And I have such a dream, the easiest one, that when passing other equally important resolutions concerning the great people who deserved our country, Members and Members of Parliament will appear in the Chamber who would like to talk about it and learn about their traditions, as well as those who created these traditions in a unique way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u79	Thank you very much. As no questions have been raised at this point, the discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on this motion for a resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 43 of the agenda: Report from the Committee of Investigation to examine the correctness and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis entities included in the Amber Gold Group (Print No 3538). Mr Jarosław Krajewski will present a report. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u80	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the report of the Sejm Committee of Investigation to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis entities included in the Amber Gold Group. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At the request of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in July 2016, the Sejm appointed a committee of inquiry to investigate the Amber Gold affair. Of course, it was one of the more than 100 issues that took place under the Civic Platform and PSL, in 2008 and 2015 but it was a special issue. Today we can say with full responsibility that the committee of inquiry explained Amber Gold's case, revealed numerous pathologies that led to the creation of the financial pyramid of Amber Gold, but above all, to the loss of trust by millions of Poles in the state institutions. The position of the committee of inquiry is set out in this document. On almost 600 pages there is a complete factography that exposes pathologies that took place during the reign of the Civic Platform and the PSL. I would like to present here some key facts concerning the results of the work of the Parliament's committee of inquiry. The committee of inquiry held a total of 132 meetings. The Commission worked on the basis of the largest evidence gathered in the case. It was over 15,000. volumes of case files and 540 volumes of files of the main investigations, including numerous classified documents which had to be analysed. The next issue is related to witness hearings. The Commission listened to a record number of 141 witnesses and conducted two confrontations. The Commission received nearly 9 000. the parties to the statements of witnesses contained in the open protocols and almost 1200 pages of statements contained in the minutes of the secret meetings, the hearings of witnesses in secret mode. As a result of the findings made, the committee sent the prosecutor's office a notification of the possibility of committing the crime, indicating the criminal liability of at least 29 persons and additionally the employees of BGŻ. This was the largest record number of notifications from all committees of inquiry from 1999 to today. Prior to the appointment of a committee of inquiry in 2016, only two persons sat on the bench of the accused for Amber Gold's case: Katarzyna P. and Marcin P. Today, the investigation into the Amber Gold scandal brought charges against at least 15 more people. The entire report of the committee of inquiry shows how in the theoretical lens the state of PO-PSL. This is a report on the fatal state of the state in 2009 and 2015 which should be a warning for those performing public functions both today and in the future. The report contains a complete factography of the negligence, omissions, errors and conscious evasiveness of high-ranking public officials that led to Amber Gold's scandal and the loss of confidence in the state's institutions. The Commission has clearly established that at least 19 thousand victims have been affected as a result of Amber Gold's activities. customers, many of whom have lost their entire lives. Amber Gold has raised more than PLN 850 million from its customers for so-called deposits. investments in gold that she managed at risk of losing her clients. Amber Gold Group's activities also caused multi-million losses to the State Treasury. As a result of e.g. the aggressive expansion of OLT Express airlines and unfair competition almost on the edge of bankruptcy were carried out by Polish Airlines LOT. During this time, the government of Prime Minister Donald Tusk, instead of saving the national carrier, prepared very seriously the privatisation of LOT. In the assessment of the committee of inquiry, the establishment and expansion of the Amber Gold Group were the result of the weakness of the state, the dysfunction of the authorities upholding the rule of law and justice, the systemic loopholes, the passiveness and indulgence of the official apparatus, and the lack of application of the law by public authorities. High Izbo! It should be pointed out that at the time of the start of Amber Gold, Mr.Marcin P. was repeatedly punished and was legally unable to perform any function on the boards of companies governed by commercial law. However, in the Civic Platform State, Mr.Marcin P. served as President of Amber Gold and President of several companies from the Amber Gold Group, although in 2010 information about the criminality of Mr.Marcin P. was widespread. This knowledge was available to the Ministry of Economy, the Financial Supervision Commission, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Police and the Internal Security Agency. Unfortunately, since 2010, none of these public institutions have taken measures that could make it difficult for Mr Marcin P. to conduct criminal activities. The case of Mr.Marcin P. is only a clear example of the consent of the PO-PSL coalition to the existence of a legal gap revealed by the committee of inquiry which allowed criminals to manage commercial law companies. Moreover, High Izbo, in 2010, the Central Anti-corruption Office officials signalled that there were serious violations of the law - this legal gap - and that legal changes should be made. It turns out that only in September 2012 did the legislative process start to rule out this legal gap start. This also revealed the committee of inquiry that explained Amber Gold's case. The factors conducive to the formation and development of the Amber Gold Group were the incorrect functioning of the courts supervising the execution of previous judgments against Marcin P. and the incorrect operation of the court's curators. Mr. Martin P.'s unpunished activities would not have been possible without errors, inability and slowness of the prosecution's actions. In particular, the prosecutor of the case in the District Public Prosecutor's Office of Gdansk-Wrzeszcz, prosecutor Barbara K. We also found the lack of proper supervision by its superiors, by the District Attorney's Office in Gdansk. It is worth recalling the symbolic assessment of the failure of the prosecutor's office in the Amber Gold case, which was formulated before the committee of inquiry by former prosecutor general Andrzej Seremet. He testified that his biggest failure as Attorney General was the Amber Gold case. The lack of safeguards for a number of important evidence that would help clarify the case is also incriminating for the prosecution and the authorities that should uphold the rule of law. The Commission has made a clear negative assessment of the functioning of the tax system vis-à-vis Amber Gold Group entities. Thanks to the passiveness and authorisation of the tax administration, Amber Gold did not submit financial statements, tax returns, did not pay taxes without having any consequences. It is remarkable that Marcin P., answering the questions of the Members of the Committee, said that seeing how the fiscal apparatus works towards Amber Gold, he had the impression that there was a protective umbrella over the activities of Amber Gold. Taking vigorous operational and investigative action by the police voivodeship in 2010 could significantly reduce the damage caused by Amber Gold's activities. The weakness of the state vis-à-vis the Amber Gold Group is particularly evident if we look at the malfunctioning of the special services. The fidelity of the Internal Security Agency and the Central Anti-corruption Office encouraged the unfettered conduct of the State's economic interests in criminal activity by Martin P. There was no proper coordination from Minister Jack Cichocki. The Commission also, which is worth pointing out here, has clearly and undeniably established that Minister Jacek Cichocki misled the Polish Sejm and the public opinion, informing the High House that the Amber Gold case has only been dealt with since March 2012 - contrary to facts that clearly show that such operational activities were already carried out in 2011. In the Amber Gold case separate proceedings were conducted by the Internal Security Agency in Warsaw and Gdańsk, there was no trust. The main findings of the officers of the Internal Security Agency from Warsaw were as follows. According to one of the witnesses, there was a whole network of informal links between criminals, justice, law enforcement and politicians in the Tricity. The Commission established that on 24 May 2012 the head of ABW Gen. Krzysztof Bondaryk informed the six most important people in the country about the suspicion of ABW that Amber Gold is a financial pyramid and damage can be of significant value. Most of the addressees of this document have been familiar with the content of the document with a gross delay. An example here is President Bronisław Komorowski's law firm, in which this secret document was read after 35 days from its influence to the President's law firm. However, most of the addressees of the document have not taken any effective action against the Amber Gold Group. In the course of the committee's work, the incorrect and unethical involvement of high-ranking public officials, including prominent civil platform politicians, in the credibility of the activities of Amber Gold Group entities has been revealed, such as dragging a plane belonging to the Amber Gold Group from the Gdańsk Airport. It is worth referring here to Donald Tusk's responsibility as former Prime Minister, former President of the Council of Ministers, for the affair of Amber Gold. In the opinion of the committee on Amber Gold, Donald Tusk failed to coordinate the work of government authorities. He did not issue any formal instructions to the subordinate government authorities to take and coordinate action to break up criminal activity. The President of the Council of Ministers has not made any arrangements in person and has not taken any action against the institutions and bodies under his authority. As agreed by the committee, in the case of Amber Gold, the President of the Council of Ministers did not personally carry out any supervisory activities on the ABW and CBA, nor did he issue any binding guidelines and instructions to the heads of these services. In the case of Amber Gold, the President of the Council of Ministers, Donald Tusk, has not formally requested information and opinions from the heads of the ABW and CBA. At the time, the prime minister was not interested in the activities of the special forces in relation to the financial pyramid. And it is worth remembering how he reported to the Committee of Investigation the son of the former Prime Minister that he and his father knew that Amber Gold was a mess. In the case of Amber Gold Donald Tusk, it did not exercise its statutory prerogatives to request information from the head of the ABW related to the planning and performance of the tasks entrusted to it. In the opinion of the committee, it is also a shocking fact that from 15 March 2012, OLT Express's co-worker for remuneration was the son of the President of the Council of Ministers, who, from 16 April 2012 at the same time, engaged in employment in the Airport of Gdansk. It is significant that the committee has undeniably established that the officers of the ABW from Gdansk were threatened with charges for obstruction of investigation in the event that they undertake independent operations in the context of establishing the actual cooperation between Michał Tusk and OLT Express lines. The Commission has made a number of important findings that have helped other authorities to conduct Amber Gold proceedings. This is witnessed by numerous notices from the commission to the prosecutor's office about the possibility of a crime being committed by people from the nearest environment of Martin P. and the management of entities from the Amber Gold Group. It is worth pointing out here that many witnesses had to testify for the first time in the Amber Gold case before the Committee of Investigation. Previously, they had not been called upon by the authorities which were upholding the rule of law and until 2015 until the end of the PO-PSL regime, most of the proceedings had been terminated or refused to initiate proceedings. High Izbo! As I mentioned, the most tangible effect is the referral of notices to the prosecution in the case of 29 people and additionally employees of BGŻ bank. It is worth recalling that the prosecution presented the charges to at least 15 more people, but we also know about the allegations made against prosecutor Barbara K. Two separate sentences were submitted to the Commission's position: one Mr Brejza and Mr Zembaczyński and the other Mr Paszyk. Both separate sentences were attached to print No 3538. Finally, I would like to thank the members of the Committee of Inquiry who, by their work, joined in with questions to try to repair [[♪ The bell ♪]] States and the determination of the total factography of the Amber Gold scandal. I would like to thank colleagues, advisers, assistants and employees of the Sejm for the titanic work that has brought about the result, and we hope that it has restored justice and security to many Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u81	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would hear 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and 5 minutes' statements on behalf of the circles. I would remind you that no amendments are tabled to the report of the committee of inquiry during its examination by the Sejm. I'm opening a discussion. Małgorzata Wassermann will be the first to speak, please, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u82	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the report. The Law and Justice Club fully supports the report prepared, prepared and adopted by the committee of inquiry. High Seym! For almost three years of the committee's work, we have seen a pathology of an unimaginable scale that has consumed state institutions. The committee of inquiry was set up to examine the activities of those offices and institutions which were subject to scrutiny by the Sejm. I'm gonna start with the D.A.'s office, and in a few words, I'm gonna talk about these institutions. Ladies and gentlemen! These evidences, which the committee carried out on the prosecution's actions, which have been disclosed to the public, are shocking and unbelievable. Namely, the degree of torpedoing by the prosecutor of the referee, with full approval from the superiors, both the district attorney's office, and I remind you that there were two of them, because they changed as well as the district attorney's office, indicated that one of our first decisions after taking over power, i.e. the merger of the prosecutor's office with the Ministry of Justice, was an absolute necessity. As far as this procedure is concerned, it can be said that not only have no activities been carried out, which are provided for by the general rules contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, in the Law on the Prosecutor's Office and in the Rules of Procedure, and even the referee's prosecutor carried out the behaviours which I call torpedoing the proceedings. Amongst these behaviors, I could at least point out the fact that, prior to questioning the prime suspect, Martin P., the prosecutor gave him the files that she had at her disposal, probably so that he would be prepared for what questions the prosecution might have to ask. Ladies and gentlemen! When Marcin P. was able to be brought to justice more than two years before the prosecutor and then the court and was arrested on 31 August 2012, we were already in a period called the Amber Gold scandal. From this speaker, among others. Mr Andrzej Seremet assured that all proceedings would be supervised by him and would be carried out dynamically, at the appropriate level, and of course disciplinary proceedings would be initiated and the question of negligence on the part of the prosecution would be examined. The result was that four disciplinary proceedings were initiated against the prosecutors, which ended with acquittals, in one case it was a conditional termination of proceedings. I would like to say that the most shocking is perhaps the justification of the disciplinary court, which exonerated prosecutor Barbara K., and in his decision, he wrote that it did not compromise the essential interests of the victims and did not undermine citizens' confidence in the justice system. The difference between what happened at the time and what is now is that currently prosecutor Barbara K. has legally waived immunity and is awaiting criminal charges, but since the beginning of the work of the Amber Gold commission, she has been on medical leave and these certificates allow her not to appear before the prosecutor until then. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm gonna move on to court issues. In this respect, too, we found a lot of things that shouldn't have happened. I would like to make it clear that, of course, both the committee and each of us respect the fact that all judgments of the court are independent and are subject only to control in the field of judicial review. Nevertheless, I would like to remind you that Marcin P., before starting Amber Gold and OLT, was punished nine times. Each time he enjoyed the benefit of probation, and every time the court felt that he should be given another chance not to go to prison. At the same time, as far as the courts are concerned, Marcin P. registered each of his companies and had several of them in the District Court in Gdansk. I can point out, for example, that he started his business with the share capital of the company of 5 thousand. zł. This share capital increased in less than 2 years to 50 million in one company, now I'm just listing the main company, Amber Gold, not the daughter's companies and subsidiaries. However, this has never led to any interest on the part of the registry court, where this company has such money. Especially should this interest be aroused, since Marcin P. did not submit financial statements. As the rapporteur has already said, he has not settled with the tax office during these three years in any form, nor has he settled with a registered court in this regard. All I can say is that after the outbreak of the scandal, disciplinary proceedings were initiated and an investigation was initiated against judges and curators from the Gdansk district. All were terminated during that period due to statute of limitations or acquittal. Then I would like to draw your attention - because we owe it to it as a committee - that the committee saw that the two institutions were acting correctly, i.e. Financial Supervision Commission and Ministry of Economy. The biggest irregularities outside the prosecutor's office, according to the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, are - whether they were - in the Ministry of Finance and in the Ministry of Construction, which today is called the Ministry of Infrastructure, and in force resorts. I mean, it is completely negative to assess the activities of Minister Cichocki, who at that time played a dual role, namely overseeing the police and coordinating the work of the special forces. As for the police, Minister Cichocki, testifying before the committee, said that he did not know that there were errors on the police side at all. How shocking those mistakes were, they showed auditions. I would remind you that two officers dealing with the Amber Gold case as early as 2010 today can only be mentioned by name and first letter of the name, because they have been charged. When it comes to coordinating the activities of special services - extremely negative assessment, and we are mostly of the opinion that this was not only extreme non-professionalism, but we can talk about something more. I remind you that the aviation theme, i.e. the entire investment by Marcin P. in the airline, was never explained until 2005, and this happened in such a way that the officers in Gdansk were banned from explaining everything related to aviation, under strict criminal charges, while the officers in Warsaw said that they did not do so because they were to do so in Gdansk. Similarly, the prosecutors said that they stopped in principle at the stage of fraud in this case without making any determination as to what was happening in aviation companies. As far as aviation companies are concerned today, several key people from there are already mentioned only by name and first letter of the name, because they have accusations, and the case is developmental and ongoing. My previous speaker, the rapporteur, mentioned the Ministry of Finance. Here we should mention the role of Minister Parishianovich, who was informed in November 2011 by Mr Jakubiak's head of KNF about the fact that this company could - because it was a big problem - be a money launderer. At the same time, Mr Jakubiak asked that the tax services provided incredibly, I would say, important operational resources check that there is no real criminal activity there. Unfortunately, Minister Parafianowicz did not launch such activities, but in February 2012 he informed Mr Jakubiak that Marcin P. would pay about 12 million of the tax outstanding. You might ask yourself, how does the Deputy Minister of Finance know that this criminal will pay such a monetary amount in about two weeks' time. High Seym! The Committee of Investigation has done a great deal of work, has made a number of notifications. As of today, the state of possession of the people who sit on the oscar bench... on the suspect bench is very wide. Today is also a special day, and an illegal sentence of 15 years against the creator of Amber Gold. I hope the D.A.'s office leads to the finals and more cases. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u83	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u84	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland, I would like to present a position on the report of the Committee of Investigation to examine the correctness and legality of the activities of public bodies and institutions vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group. The Commission was established in July 2016. Her work is formally ongoing until today, after the election of the Sejm of the old term. What is significant, over 3 years I will not tell you how to function, but how to survive the commission unfortunately, with regret it has to be said, have not led to anything breakthrough. The Commission, set up as a tool to combat hated political opponents, turned out to be the way it was introduced into the jargon of the public debate by the representatives of the PIS, the caption that they did not even want to adopt the report on the Commission's activities before the parliamentary elections. Interrogations of many former ministers of the previous government broadcast by TVP Info with stripes of horror did not answer any of the questions asked by Poles sitting in front of TVs at the time. What are the questions? First: Who stood and was standing behind Mr. Martin P. and Catherine P.? Was there a ruler, and who was it? Finally, where did the money go? Unfortunately, these and many other questions have not been answered by the committee. No one needs to be convinced that the financial pyramid for which Mr. Marcin P. was formally responsible was not his idea. Strange, unclear financial links with the SKOK environment and the origin of funds for launching criminal business have been unexplained. What about the connection to SKOK Media or Exelo? What about Mr. Marius, the mystery character in the middle of Amber Gold? Well, not much. The Commission set up for political purposes could not answer all these questions of Poles, as it served as a tool for harassing politicians who did not have PiS legitimacy. What about those who were not questioned by the committee because the majority of committee members did not want to know the broader context and to come closer to the whole truth about the circumstances of the Amber Gold case? Today is a symbolic day on which the court finished reading the verdict against the alleged financial pyramid inventors, in which Poles lost many millions of zlotys. The Amber Gold case should not take place, with this probably most Polish parliamentarians and the public will agree, the state should enforce from the relevant services proper actions, and we will agree with this, which should be taken responsibility for. I must point out that currently on the pages of the Financial Supervision Commission there is a list of 31 public entities covered by the KNF warning. So how's the state working these days? What are the proper services doing to verify all these entities? Poles do not track every day which companies are fair and can invest their money in them. Now, back to the Amber Gold case, I'd like to say that the financial pyramid's activities are primarily real losses for its depositors, for those who haven't recovered the money entrusted to this company. It's a loss, a despair, even a life drama for over 12,000. people, their loved ones and families. It is also the loss by several thousand people of money for airline tickets for connections that have never been realized by OLT Express airlines. In the end, it is also a loss to Amber Gold's partners, including state-owned companies such as Airports. Amber Gold's activities from the very beginning were designed criminal activities using the mechanism of the financial pyramid. A perfidious feature of all financial pyramids is that the participants consciously or unconsciously play against each other, because some depositors will be able to withdraw the invested funds in time with the above-average profits at the expense of other depositors who have contributed funds to the pyramid at too late a stage of its life in order to be able - even losing the promised profits - to withdraw their contribution. And here is another question, whether the people who invested at the initial stage of Amber Gold knew that this was a financial pyramid, and whether they used this knowledge. Or was Amber Gold's first customer group used to launder dirty money? This is another topic to which the committee has not answered all those concerned. In the case of a company under Amber Gold nearly 15 thousand. persons paid PLN 850 million to this company, of which almost PLN 3 000 were profitable. over 290 million PLN were withdrawn and 12 187 people lost a total of 584 million PLN. What lesson should state institutions learn from a painful failure like Amber Gold? This is what I would like to point out in particular, because I think that if we can draw anything positive from the Amber Gold case, from the action of the Committee of Investigation, it is the conclusions for the future, in the interests and in order to protect Poles. Firstly, a clear law on economic crime, which would define the scheme of the financial pyramid. That's what we're missing today, as well as then. Secondly, the economic education of the public and information campaigns tend to make consumers aware of the risk of any investment, even if they invest in government bonds. More reliable educational campaigns, less scorn campaigns. Thirdly, financial crime training for law enforcement representatives. Prosecutors acting on behalf of the State must be able to separate themselves from the criminal activity of a risky or even risky economic activity carried out in compliance with the law and within its limits. Fourthly, it would be very helpful to impose any sanction on the authority conducting the investigation in the event of failure by the authority conducting the investigation to comply with the guidelines of the court repealing the contested order. In the case of Amber Gold, the Gdansk courts have twice waived the order of the prosecution, since the prosecutor in charge of the proceedings did not simply follow any recommendations from the court or comply with requests from the notifying authority, the Financial Supervision Authority. We've come to an important point - the question of the prosecution's responsibility. I would like to draw attention to the strange promotions that followed the politicisation of the prosecutor's office and submission to its attorney general, who freely transferred prosecutors, promoted some, and demoted some on the basis of unclear, well-known criteria. High Seym! The activities of the Committee of Investigation to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public authorities and bodies vis-à-vis the Amber Gold Group entities are clearly negative. Her works marked by the party message did nothing to help the Polish state, maybe in addition to indicating that the activities of the Ministry of Economy proved to be exemplary and worthy of imitation. And let me remind you that Waldemar Pawlak was then Minister of Economy. On this occasion, the question arises as to whether, in the future, committees of inquiry make sense, which in most cases turned out to be a multi-month political theatre, from which little was apparent for the citizens concerned. Isn't it better to think about the idea of the Polish People's Party, an idea that already has its time, that it is the commission responsible for special services to equip itself with the right powers to assist in such matters, [[♪ The bell ♪]] To explain things like that, without cameras, without journalists, but so as to seek out the essence of the truth? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u85	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Witold Zembaczyński, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u86	Dear Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, the Civic Coalition's position on the Amber Gold report. Today, it can be said that the only relative relief to all those injured in this affair was brought by a common court, giving sentence of conviction to Catherine P. and Marcin P. This relief has not been experienced by the citizens as a result of the preparation of a report on the work of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Amber Gold. If I were to call the case Amber Gold a mother, I'd call the case a daughter's report ending this committee's work. This report did not explain anything, and both the history of the committee of inquiry. Amber Gold, as well as its findings in the position, shows that the purpose of the committee was not to get to the truth about Marcin P., companies of the Amber Gold group, but to strike directly at Donald Tusk, President of Gdańsk Paweł Adamowicz and other politicians of the coalition PO-PSL. Indeed, it was impossible for the committee of inquiry to make true findings because of the continuous infringement in the course of its work at the time of the proceedings. The Commission collected evidence in a selective manner. For example, she interviewed Michał Tusk as a witness as one of several hundred employees of the Amber Gold group, while she did not listen to the Prime Minister of Mateusz Morawiecki as the then president of BZ WBK SA, in which Amber Gold opened bank accounts, or those currently headed by the Internal Security Agency or the Central Bureau of Investigation. She also did not question Zbigniew Ziobra, which I requested, even somewhere along the way my motion was lost. Nor was the testimony of an ABW officer withheld, witness number six. Some threads the committee of inquiry tried to avoid at all costs, e.g. the question of linking Amber Gold to the SKOKs, the matter of not giving the prosecutor general Andrzej Seremet a letter from the chairman of the KNF on tardiness in the actions of the prosecutors investigating the Amber Gold case. Zbigniew Ziobra's reward for this waiver was a profitable function. On the other hand, the committee of inquiry examined other issues despite the fact that it had no authority to do so, e.g. activity of the National Bank of Poland or Bank Gospodarki Żywowej SA. The Witnesses have been questioned repeatedly in violation of their dignity, and one of the people best treated by the committee of inquiry was, surprisingly, Marcin P. Questions asked to witnesses were biased, with thesis, often suggested an answer. The members of the committee of inquiry allowed themselves numerous tidings during interrogations, multi-minute political statements. There have even been reprehensible behaviors, such as the exclusion of the interrogated persons and even members of the committee of inquiry by the chairman of the interrogation committee. The position of the committee is a document in which the conclusions which are not supported by facts are formulated. Despite the suggestions made in the position, the committee did not demonstrate the existence of the so-called. a three-city agreement supposed to bind criminal, business and political environments. The Commission has also failed to provide any evidence that PO-PSL politicians were offering a mythical protective umbrella over Martin P. and Amber Gold group to protect against public authorities. Finally, it was not demonstrated that the employment of Michał Tusk, son of Prime Minister Donald Tusk in the company of Amber Gold - OLT Express capital group had any impact on the operation of public authorities vis-à-vis Amber Gold capital group companies. It's a total disaster here, too. Some important facts are completely ignored by the committee of inquiry, e.g. the deconspiracy of a witness - an ABW officer during one of the hearings conducted by the committee. It's a very dangerous event. In view of the above, the work of the committee appears merely as an unsuccessful attempt by the PiS to compromise politicians of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party. The failure of this trial is also demonstrated by the fact that during the last period of the committee of inquiry there has been little talk of its work and that the adoption of its position has hardly been recorded at all by the media. What is alarming, since 2016, a number of prosecutors dealing with various stages of the Amber Gold case, whether in Gdansk or in the General Prosecutor's Office in Warsaw, have either been appointed to elite committees or, including two prosecutors assigned to the Amber Gold case, promoted to high positions in a new, dominated by the PiS prosecution. Such personal decisions by the management of the PiS prosecution are a contradiction of the 2012 and 2013 announcements about the need to settle prosecutors responsible for the development of the Amber Gold scandal. The work of the committee of inquiry, of course, also had a minimal positive impact, as they revealed a lot of uncomfortable facts about the PiS state. It turned out that prosecutors, who were responsible for a number of omissions, shortcomings in relation to the scandal, were promoted, appointed by the Minister of Justice, Zbigniew Ziobra, to perform numerous profitable functions. For example, prosecutor Wesołowski - Deputy Director of the Office of the Presidential Prosecutor General, who found his place in the Prosecutor's Examination Board. And he didn't hand over the letter, the KNF president's alert on the irregularities in the Amber Gold proceedings. This handwriting didn't come into the hands of the Attorney General, and this is a giant scandal. On the other hand, as a curiosity it should be stated that Judge Dorota Zabłudowska, who has waived the order of the prosecution to terminate the criminal proceedings in the case of Amber Gold, is currently being prosecuted by a disciplinary spokesman appointed by Zbigniew Ziobra for receiving from the deceased. President Adamowicz award for activities for the independence of courts and human rights. Above all, however, the most important thing is that the committee did not reveal in any way what was the whole modus operandi of her work, i.e. the alleged political links of Martin P. to any political party. The only related employee of Amber Gold with political parties was a client advisor, a PiS party activist. It should also be noted here that it is not entirely fair to assess the conduct of the Internal Security Agency, as it has taken final effective action ending with the break-up of the Amber Gold pyramid. The same is true of the CBA. The proposals proposed in this position are contrary to the description of the CBA activity previously presented by the authors of the report. The final parts of the committee's position on Marcin P. in our opinion also completely compromise this report. First of all, this is because the emerging thesis that the analysis of the development of Amber Gold and OLT groups shows that it is unlikely that the pyramid's inventor would be Marcin P. has been proven in any way. Establishment of a company linked to costs, etc. There's no indication that Marcin P. had any power. If you believe that Marcin P. was really just a pillar and acted in the service of some secret arrangement, surely in the course of the three years of work of this commission of inquiry, the State of PiS, having all the services in hand, would prove anything. It didn't happen, so it's an absolute failure. Of course, the thread that has been completely ignored by the committee of inquiry is the connection between Amber Gold and the SKOKs. Here we have dealt with the circulation of documents within Amber Gold companies, which were produced in SKOKs. It is also alarming that the responsibility of the Minister of Justice, Jarosław Gowin, is completely disregarded, who illegally acquired the files relating to Amber Gold's activities. As a constitutional minister, he also failed, but for purely political reasons, this proposal is no longer in the report. But there are threads that go beyond the delegation of the commission, like a survey of the National Bank of Poland. I'll remind you that there was supposed to be a report about, among other things. President of the Council of Ministers, UOKiK, etc. The Sejm's authorization did not give the possibility to examine these side threads at all. The total failure at the end of this committee's work, which was to prove, also through failed attempts to deal with Marcin P. a small Crown witness, etc., that Amber Gold's affair was an issue related to the Civic Platform. It didn't work. Nor was it possible in any way to prove to the PIS that it was a pillar, either to the committee of inquiry or to the entire apparatus of the State of PiS. Finally, a report is produced, which is very selective, lacking. The omission of numerous witnesses and the procedure indicates that this committee has not changed the state's knowledge of Amber Gold in relation to what we had in 2012. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is a very sad summary of these last 3 years of Margaret Wassermann's leadership. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u87	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mrs Iwona Arent, Law and Justice. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u88	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have questions for the rapporteur, Jarosław Krajewski: Did the committee identify those who felt impunity and were linked to the activities of Amber Gold or companies associated with Amber Gold as OLT Express? Did the committee determine why Marcin P. felt impunity and impunity for cheating people, trying to lead to the collapse of the Polish air carrier Polskie Linie Lotnicze? Is the fact that OLT Express was the son of the then Prime Minister Donald Tusk Michał Tusk affected the impunity of Marcin P. and Amber Gold as far as its activities are concerned? And did the fact that Mr Michał Tusk's son worked there also lead to paralysis of the institutions of the state, which should be responsible for ensuring the safety of citizens and protecting them from frauds, such frauds on such a scale, even on a smaller scale, but fraud? Did this impunity and this paralysis of the state institutions not guarantee the security of our nation's citizens, not protect them from Martin P., Catherine P., from Amber Gold? Did the actions of the Civic Platform government, today called the Civic Coalition, as anybody would prefer, and Mr. Donald Tusk's actions lead to the institutions being paralyzed? As we have heard, institutions such as the tax authorities, the tax authorities did not want to come in with checks. Only because they were paralyzed by the information that Michael Tusk was working there. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please answer me. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u89	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u90	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will not hide that after listening to these speeches I am inclined to say that you are simply obsessed with Prime Minister Tusk. In every speech you make, you accuse him of everything, everything is Tusk's fault. Turns out it's not. In my opinion, this report does not suggest anything like that. It is, in my opinion, at least indecent to involve his son in this affair. I have a question for the rapporteur: could you tell us what the damage was caused by the Amber Gold scandal and what the damage was caused by the SKOK scandal? I think this is the biggest mess we've ever had. In your report there were such wordings that certainly Mr Marcin P. had no financial opportunity to run the whole procedure. In view of the fact that there were names that were also related to the SKOKs, in the event of Amber Gold, did you investigate this? Did you check whether the funds that allowed Amber Gold to run the whole institution came from the SKOKs? Have you even taken up this subject? I'm afraid you've given up on the subject, because when it comes to the SKOKs, it's more like you're walking a mile away from the scandal. This is evidently an issue that also affects people connected with the Law and Justice, and this cannot be hidden. So I'd really like to ask you for an answer on the scale of Amber Gold's scandal compared to the SKOKs. To be honest, Commissioner - this is my colleague from Krakow - that this report and the work of this committee in general is one big failure. [[For you, not for the people who have been...]] And what you, Mr. Reporting Officer, are showing right now... Let me put it this way: it's another loss, only this time it's a loss. [[♪ The bell ♪]] for the environment - so much paper has been destroyed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[This is the last of your games in the Seym.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u91	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Witold Zembaczyński, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u92	Dear Marshal! Dear Members, I have a question because this report contains a number of substantive errors that indicate the ignorance of materials and conflict with the findings of the committee, e.g. Poles' losses were overstated. In the introduction to the report there is talk of misappropriated financial resources in the amount of PLN 850 million. This is contrary to the calculations set up by the expert prosecutor's office, the audit firm EY, and the statements of the witnesses interviewed, which indicate the amount of misappropriation - 500 million. So what's the ma'am of the committee's calculations... I wish I could see you here as rapporteur. If something's created, there's nothing to be ashamed of, you have to take responsibility for it. What's the loss? How much did this committee's work cost, including the cost of transmitting them through government television? Let's move on with the questions. Please tell me why, despite my requests for evidence, the committee has not heard the current Chiefs of Special Services, the ABW, the CBA, or the Minister of Coordinator Mariusz Kaminski, or the Minister of Justice - Attorney General Zbigniew Ziobra. The lack of these actions has caused us to keep moving in the sphere of conjecture, conjecture, who, according to you, could really stand behind Marcin P. This caused the report to confuse press sensations with actual facts. The interrogations of these people would allow us to identify the alleged administrators of Martin P. and repeatedly mentioned in the report of the protective umbrella - or was there no umbrella? - or, as you have often feared, the President would show unmistakably that at present neither the ABW nor the CBA nor the police nor the prosecution have identified any specific persons in charge of the actions of Martin P. and Amber Gold. Why, then, didn't their interrogation take place? Whether you wanted to explain the matter or just [[♪ The bell ♪]] Attack your opponents? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u93	Thank you very much, sir. Please, the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Jarosław Krajewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u94	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to answer the questions that have been asked by your Members, but also to refer to these two club speeches, which in no way surprised me. Here it is worth noting that these were the speeches of two clubs: the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, and at the very beginning of my speech I mentioned that it was a report on negligence, omissions and errors within the theoretical state of the Civic Platform and PSL. As a beautiful Polish proverb says: hit the table and the scissors will speak. But if you are talking about costs, I think this is a very important question: how much does it cost to repair the state after 8 years of government of PO-PSL? Well, you can count how much the work of the Sejm's employees costs, electricity, paper... [[How much?]] ...about investigating the truth about one of the scandals... [[Smolensk.]] ...from which it all began, as one of Prime Minister Donald Tusk's ministers said. The collapse of the PO-PSL government began with the outbreak of the Amber Gold scandal. But as you ask about the costs, I recall a conversation with one of Warsaw's residents, who said to me: Mr, if we are talking about these costs, you will ask the Member how much it costs to do nothing to the Members of the opposition. If we accept that 150 Members of the opposition do nothing, do not come to the truth, do not want to explain the matter, do not want to repair and build a strong, just state... These are costs of about 20 million PLN when it comes to the salaries of such Members of the opposition who do nothing to clarify the matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u95	Excuse me, sir, but I would like you to act as rapporteur in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u96	I am now referring to the cost issue, of course, your marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u97	So here you go - for the committee's costs.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u98	It is difficult to compare, but I think it was the Poles who decided that this issue had to be clarified. Members of the opposition have said that different facts have not been established. I must say as rapporteur, Marshal, that the committee acted on the basis and within the limits of the law, on the basis of the constitution and on the basis of the law on the Parliamentary Committee of Investigation. These documents, which we managed to secure and which we received, are over 150,000. files, scanned documents - from any state institutions and bodies. Unfortunately, it was not properly secured e.g. Mr. Martin P.'s phone records, Mrs. Catherine P. But when were those phone records not secured? Between 2012 and 2015. Then the observation documents and many other documents were not secured. If we had them as the Sejm Committee on Investigation, we would point out to you who was behind Mr Marcin P., who he was talking to, who he was in contact with and where he got funds for the development of Amber Gold. At this point, I have to add the facts that the committee of inquiry has established. First of all, Amber Gold didn't buy gold, and she only bought the crumbs for about 1%. measures that have affected the so-called "custodian" from customers. deposits in gold. 1%. The last purchase of gold was 5 July 2011 and the company actually existed until August 2012. If we're talking about Amber Gold's bank account the day before the money comes into the first so-called. You know how much Amber Gold's account was back then? No gold, no gold. And when Amber Gold entered the syndicate, there were about 600 PLN in Amber Gold's cash register. And here we really regret the fact that it was not properly secured by the prosecutor's office, the police, the Internal Security Agency for evidence that would allow the committee of inquiry to establish even more information about the Amber Gold scandal. But I would also like to point out that this report, the most extensive evidence and the most extensive report ever produced by the committee of inquiry, is based primarily on the substantive, titanic work that was devoted to building an efficient state, a just one, a state that is on the side of citizens. And I can speak with the High House, as well as with Poles, who want to know if you have reached conclusions today... During the rule of law and justice, personal, procedural and legislative changes took place in order to protect Poles and guarantee a sense of security, so that, for the second time, a criminal such as Mr.Marcin P., who was then punished nine times, could not create the same mechanism of fraud on a large scale. You asked the Member about the scale issue. The prosecution points to nearly PLN 1 billion in terms of the amount of victims in the Amber Gold affair. And as we add to this the loss of the State Treasury, as well as the issues of the airport and Polish Airlines LOT, we are also talking about the next tens of millions of PLN. There is also a question related to the question of Mrs Iwona Arent. At this point, I would like to address this question by presenting the very significant words that came out during the hearing before the Parliament's committee of inquiry. The first are the words of Mr Marcin P., which were revealed during the work of the Sejm Committee of Investigation from the declassified documents of the Internal Security Agency, of which neither you Members nor Poles who followed the work of the Sejm Committee of Investigation would ever know because these documents were classified documents. They were declassified and thanks to this we learned the words of Mr.Marcin P., the creator and President of Amber Gold, who said in 2012 in a conversation with his contractor: As you know, my son works at the Prime Minister's office, worked at the OLT, and as long as he worked, it seems to me that no one moved us. End of quote. But the truth is, until then, no one has touched Mr. Martin P. Second quote. The second quote from the testimony of Michael Tusk, son of the then Prime Minister Donald Tusk before the committee of inquiry. The important thing is to quote exactly: Together we knew that it was, so colloquially speaking, a crap that it was a crap. We are talking about a conversation that took place in 2012. It has been weeks since this conversation, and even months since Poles paid record amounts to Amber Gold. As I remember, in 2012 to Amber Gold on the so-called. deposits in gold amounted to more than PLN 450 million, to a company which at the time did not buy any gold at all, and these investments were to be guaranteed deposits. And a third interview, a declassified interview for the work of the Sejm Committee of Investigation, a telephone call from Mrs Katarzyna P. in 2012, showing a sense of impunity for people managing Amber Gold. I quote: No harm will happen to us, we are not actually losing money, so calmly. End of quote. Ladies and gentlemen! Regardless of political divisions, however, each Member and every Member has a duty to draw conclusions from the Amber Gold affair, from other issues that have taken place, so that we can guarantee the Poles a sense of security, including financial security. I firmly believe that this more than three years of work by the Sejm Committee of Investigation and numerous personal, procedural, legislative changes will be a warning to all those performing public functions that it is not possible to do as the most important people in the country did when the Amber Gold scandal took place. Finally, I am also referring to the serious treatment of classified documents from the Internal Security Agency, which go to the most important people in the country. The memo of 24 May 2012, which we knew only existed, but the content was not known until the beginning of the parliamentary committee of inquiry, until our work. After reading this document, we know that the six most important people in the country have been informed of the article. The 18th Internal Security Act and this warning was a warning and a cry, as General Krzysztof Bondaryk testified, to take effective action to prevent further expansion of Amber Gold and OLT Express. Unfortunately, the lack of knowledge first of information which may be important for the security of the state or regarding the reputation of the Republic of Poland. On the basis of this article, a letter was sent to the most important six people in the country. Would you consider that this is a proper procedure, that one of the ministers will be familiar after 2 weeks with such an urgent, alarming note of the ABW? Would you consider that it was correct for the head of the President's Office of the Republic of Poland to get acquainted with this memo, which was sent to the President's Office after 35 days? Will such a country be a safe country, or will such a country be a functioning state? Finally, unfortunately, I would like to say one more thing to you, because the opposition Members also asked about Prime Minister Donald Tusk. Well, Prime Minister Donald Tusk personally did not get acquainted with the memo on 24 May 2012 by General Krzysztof Bondaryk. He pointed out that the content of the information had been communicated to him by the Prime Minister's head of law by Minister Tomasz Arabski. But remember, for Prime Minister Donald Tusk, it was not a foreign company, because his son, as he testified, talked to his dad about it. We don't want to go into personal matters here, under any circumstances. We are here to examine and assess the correctness and legality of the actions taken by the state institutions towards Amber Gold Group entities. And that was our goal, and that was our goal. Finally, I must thank you very cordially for helping me to reveal this truth, to declassify the documents, to reach the hidden facts. [[Applause]] It really was a hard, hard job. For this once again, I thank you, as rapporteur, on my behalf. Let's draw conclusions for the future. And that's the most important message. And the guilty shall bear the penalty. We're very much hoping that those who have been identified by the Sejm's Investigation Board will hear the charges from the D.A.'s office... [[Court.]] ...and then we can say that the justice system is finally up to its task and punish the people responsible for the Amber Gold affair. This is what I wish for and I hope we can also... [[And the answer to the question?]] ...to get to know the information that the justice system is going to punish. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u99	Thank you very much. In the procedure of correcting Mr Meysztowicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u100	Thank you, Marshal. You misunderstood me, sir. I didn't ask you how many Poles cost 8 years of inaction by opposition Members of the PIS. 8 years They didn't do anything. I didn't ask you that. I asked what was the difference between the cost of Amber Gold and the losses... [[But you won't have to do anything anymore.]] ...as a result of the SKOK scandal. I think you have that knowledge. Usually, if he asks the rapporteur a question, the rapporteur will answer if it is not too difficult. Apparently, the questions asked by the Members of the opposition are either too difficult or inconvenient for the Member. However, I would ask you very much to address the issues that we have raised. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[In the next term.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u101	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. According to Art. 19c paragraph. 2 and 3 of the Act on the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on the committee's report shall not be put to a vote. That concludes our consideration of this item on the agenda. I'm declaring a time-out. 15. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 mins 27 hours 15 min 04]] I'll resume after adjournment. We proceed with the examination of item 41 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time of the answer to an additional question. We begin with the second question, which in this situation will be the first. This will be a question addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers and will be answered by the President of the Council of Ministers, the Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Maciej Wąsik. The questions will be asked by Mrs Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska and Mr Tomasz Semoniak. [[Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: I will be alone.]] Alone, right? In that case, both questions will be asked by the Member, the Civic Platform Club, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u102	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Once again, we ask, and I expect a clear answer: yes or no, whether the Polish special forces bought the Pegasus system or not. Let me remind you that our guest, guest of the State Security Investigation Team - I know that the Minister noticed this team even today on Twitter, I understand, I respect - you were Colonel Grzegorz Reszka, former Head of the Military Counterintelligence Service, and spoke about this system so: This is a spy system, generally speaking, allowing for complete insight into the operating system and control of the operating system used in smartphones. It allows the active use of existing functions in a given system for obtaining information and for some it is treated as a weapon. It is used for aggressive, active not only obtaining information, but also information that is on the device, i.e. on the phone. It gives the possibility of extended functions and, in fact, what is equally important, is absolutely undetectable and has self-destructive possibilities at a time when it is to be treated as invisible. True, you assured Poles that no one who is honest has anything to fear, that even if all honest people are controlled by Pegasus, nothing happens. However, for a long time we have been asking whether Pegasus system operates in Poland or not. We didn't get a clear answer: yes or no. You have no reason to be afraid. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u103	Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u104	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer this question, I must stress that we have answered it repeatedly. As Mrs Kluzik-Rostkowska quoted here, I have never answered this question or answered the Minister's answer. Unfortunately, I must answer in this way: Forms, methods and techniques of operating work are a state secret and we cannot talk about any specific forms, methods and techniques of operating work in this Chamber. The law in the form of a law on the protection of classified information prohibits us from doing so. Therefore, please do not instigate me to break this law, Madam Member, and please do not treat my reply as either confirmation or denial. Persons who violate the law in Poland cannot know the operational possibilities of special services. Therefore, these operational capabilities constitute a secret protected by the service. I would like to stress and reassure the Member that the Polish services operate on the basis and within the limits of the law. Any form of operational control, i.e. entry, let's call it, in the privacy of a controlled person, is under the control of the Attorney General and the District Court in Warsaw. And I would like to reassure you that this will always be the case as long as we manage the services, although this has been different in the past. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u105	Thank you. The Member will ask an additional question in this point. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u106	Minister, I'm exercising my right to ask you an additional question. What do you mean... Because apart from Pegasus... According to Polish law, if you have suspicions about a person, with the permission of the court you can check everything that they have on their smartphone, basically all the functions that include Pegasus' description are possible. Am I to understand, because the fact that you do not deny it makes me suppose that this system exists in Poland? Are you, Minister, able to assure me that, although you may have such a system, in any situation where you decide to check out a citizen, you use this path: the prosecutor - the court, and there is no mention of situations where you use Pegasus without the prosecution and the court? That's the first thing. Second thing. We also heard very disturbing information that this is a system that is not a Polish system and is audited outside once in a while. That's it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We're entering the realm of threat to state security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u107	You're welcome. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u108	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to repeat the answer to the question: neither confirm nor deny. I can't answer any questions about operating techniques in the service. This is obvious. On the other hand, I would like to stress once again that any action that falls within the operational control - this is described in the Service Act, in the case of the CBA, is probably an article. 17, you can read exactly what constitutes operational control - it is done with the consent of the Attorney General and the Court, under the control of the Attorney General and the Court, and the court and the Attorney General shall receive, after each inspection, the relevant information as provided for by the Act. Polish services operate within the framework and on the basis of legal provisions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u109	Thank you. Let's move on to the next question. It will be addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers and will be under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers, Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence, Mr Wojciech Skurkiewicz. The question about the operation of Cenzin and the financial irregularities of PLN 4 million. Mr Michał Kaminski, Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u110	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, The media reported that Cenzin, one of the most important companies involved in special trading in our country, was the victim of a presumptuous fraud involving the transfer of PLN 4 million to an unauthorised customer in Turkey instead of a Czech company. This loss of the state budget, PLN 4 million in Cenzin, must cause concern. After all, it is taxpayers' money and a company which is a very important company for the defence of the state. I understand that all the services that deal with the army and defence of the state must be vigilant because of the rainbow plague that threatens us, because of vegetarians, homosexuals, cyclists and all sorts of other filth that come to us from the West. However, as I understand it, all these powerful people, whose good change puts important positions in the companies of the Treasury, especially in the field of defence, can, I hope, read and count. I have therefore a question to the Minister: Is one of the criteria you apply to employing your colleagues in these companies at least finishing a zero? Because no one who watched the films about the Czech thug Rumcais would fall for the number your colleagues fell for. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u111	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u112	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! In the first sentence, I would like to protest against the homophobic statements of the Member. [[I was quoting the Archbishop.]] This isn't the place and the moment to talk like this. I thought you weren't homophobic, but your words... [[Archbishop.]] Apparently, they're absolutely against it. Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to the issue that Mr Kaminski referred to, it should be said that the explanations so far show that a hacker attack was carried out in 2018 in Cenzin. The company was the victim of a crime called phishing. It's a method of fraud where a criminal is impersonated by another person or institution to extort certain information or to persuade a victim to act in a specific way. The purpose of this attack was to bring to an adverse regulation money belonging to both Cenzin and the Czech company Sellier & Bellot, a foreign supplier of Cenzin, who was the primary victim of the hacker attack. This was done by moderating correspondence from the Czech company and addressed to Cenzin, which received a false, original invoice and started the payment process. This was the first such situation in the company. Following the detection of the incident, the company took all necessary steps to investigate the reasons which led to the situation that was undoubtedly caused by the action of third parties. However, due to the ongoing prosecution of the case, any further comment relating directly to the causes of the incident, such action, including details, the chronology of events, due to the good of the investigation conducted at this stage cannot be granted. And one more explanation. The State budget in this respect has not been affected in any way. It was the funds of Cenzin, not the Treasury. [[Who owns the company?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u113	Mr President, you have time for an additional question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u114	Minister! First of all, I'm not homophobic. I merely ironically - one day you may be familiar with what irony is - quoted the words of one of the archbishops. Another thing: How could I be homophobic if, at a time when I was in Law and Justice, the Prime Minister of the Government boasted that one of the most important ministers was a homosexual person? Then how could I be homophobic? I'm a little surprised, Minister, that you're saying it's not public money. If the company is owned by the State Treasury, it is the money of Poles, not private money. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u115	The Minister has resigned from answering the question, and we therefore move on to the next question. They will be asked by Piotr Appeal, Maciej Masłowski and Jarosław Sachajko from the Kukiz club15. All I see is Mr Piotr Apel. [[Then I'll start.]] You're gonna get started on that. The question is about state security and the right to citizens' privacy in connection with press releases on the purchase of Pegasus spying software and other such programmes, including legal bases for their application. This question is addressed to the Minister - a member of the Council of Ministers, a coordinator of special services, and will be answered by the Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u116	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The question deliberately takes the form of a request for information. We've been very specific about what we're talking about. It's about the software system, the Pegasus system, but it's also about any program that allows you to look at phones, telephones, all the chosen ones, I mean, by the minister, the coordinator, or the appropriate services to people. First of all, the question is whether we really have this type of program as a state or whether our services have this type of program. Secondly, if so, in what legal framework it is permitted to apply, since Polish law, I think, quite unambiguously indicates that possible listening can take place only at a certain time. Is any surveillance at a certain time... As you know, we keep photos on our phone, old text messages, things that we shouldn't have access to, even after the court has agreed, special forces shouldn't have. The second question concerns state security. If we buy programs - assuming that we buy - from foreign companies, they are likely to be leaky and may also benefit from those countries where the company producing them is registered. This is very important. I think that each of us would feel safe if in fact only Polish special forces had access to this knowledge and within a legal framework. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u117	I'm asking you to answer me. Mr Maciej Wąsik will answer the Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u118	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! I have answered that question once today, but I will, of course, answer it again. The law does not allow me to inform you of the detailed techniques, forms and methods of operation. The question you asked me the way you asked it, of course I can't answer it. Nevertheless, the law says that any deep scrutiny, I'm sorry, interference in the privacy of a person is under the control of the prosecution and the court. According to their laws, all Polish special services use operational control - and not only special services, because operational control can also be used by police services - after obtaining appropriate consent from the prosecutor general and the appropriate court. It's not gonna change, it's gonna continue. Polish services operate under the law and on the basis of it. At the same time, I would like to tell you that any equipment used for operational control is subject to the safeguards laid down under the provisions of the Act on the protection of classified information, have appropriate certificates and are safe devices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u119	Thank you. Will the Member ask an additional question? [[Yes, yes, please.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u120	Minister! A quick question, please don't come back because it's really short. I'd like to ask you if we can really be sure that the creators of such brilliant, very complicated programs... Do we have the right tools to verify whether these programs are really safe? Secondly, is there any way to archive the information that has actually been downloaded? Is there an archive from which you can learn, for example. From this Mr. X we learned this, from this Mr. X we collected such photographs, from this Mr. X - such and such texts?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u121	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u122	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The question is, of course, tricky. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that operational control in Poland is carried out on the basis of legislation, according to what the services have, in accordance with the regulations issued for it, on the basis of the relevant regulations. Appropriate records shall be kept of everything that is obtained under operational control. I don't know which authors you're talking about, really, I don't know them, I don't know these kinds of solutions, so unfortunately I can't answer that part of the question. Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u123	We move on to the next question that will be asked by Mr Marek Polak, Law and Justice, on the supply of contaminated oil from Russia. The question is addressed to the Minister of Energy, and the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy, Mr Krzysztof Kubów, will answer. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u124	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! At the end of April this year. the collection of oil transported by the Russian Friendship pipeline has been stopped due to its pollution. This forced us to supply Polish refineries by sea. If you believe in press reports, some of the mandatory resources have also been made available, and cleaning the contaminated installation is a multi-month process. I know that the crisis has already been resolved and oil is being repressed by the pipeline. I would like to ask: What losses did our refinery industry suffer from this? Will the Polish party receive the compensation due from the Russian supplier, as well as whether the quality control system of the raw material delivered fulfils its task? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u125	Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u126	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to stress that this 46-day interruption in the supply of raw materials by the Friendship pipeline did not cause any disturbances on the fuel market in Poland. Practically the whole event remained unnoticed as regards the retail market for fuels in our country, which indicates the proper functioning of the entire intervention system as regards oil and fuel. The system of intervention stocks has been in place for years and is still being improved by amending the Law on oil stocks, petroleum products and natural gas and all kinds of implementing acts to this law. It is worth noting that the government has been supporting fuel companies in their efforts to diversify oil supplies to Poland for years. In 2012 - which is very important - the share of Russian oil in total imports was around 95.5% in 2018 it was 77.3% and in May this year 51.3%. In addition, the government took appropriate action long before the oil pollution incident with organic corks by Russian suppliers, which protected the country from such incidents. An example can be adopted by the government in 2017 for logistics infrastructure in the oil sector. Its main objective is to build and expand logistics infrastructure, which will ensure the supply of hydrocarbons to customers in crisis situations, allow for smooth commercial operations of fuel companies, as well as the possibility of diversifying the sources and routes of oil supply to our country. In implementing the policy adopted by the Polish government, PERN SA runs a wide investment programme, which results in the expansion of storage capacity. It is worth mentioning the second stage of the Gdansk oil terminal, the expansion of the warehouse base in Gdansk, the expansion of transport infrastructure and the construction of the second thread of the Pomeranian pipeline. In addition, PERN introduced new rules for the sampling and testing of the raw material delivered in order to protect against future pollution. As of today, in order to confirm quality, they are properly tested every 3 hours. With regard to the compensation issue, various correspondence are currently being carried out in this area, including as the Ministry of Lady in this regard. Okay? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u127	Thank you very much. Please remain on the stand. The Member will ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u128	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Although the Minister answered my question in a comprehensive manner, I wanted to ask, could this situation have had an impact on the retail prices of fuels in our country? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u129	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It could have had an impact if the intervention system had not been functioning smoothly. From this point of view - what I said earlier - were not felt at all on the fuel market these disruptions in lack of supply for 46 days as regards the Friendship pipeline. This system worked very well, but also this diversification I mentioned, the supply of oil from the eastern direction. This is shown directly by the figures: 2012 and 95.5% , the year 2018.77%. This diversification happens all the time. It is also a safety valve that in such cases we have other sources of supply, which protects the Polish state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u130	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. It will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, on electricity prices in 2019, the implementation of the regulation to the Act on electricity prices and worrying signals with tens of percent increases in electricity prices in 2020. The question is addressed to the Minister of Energy. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Mr Tadeusz Skobel will answer. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u131	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We've been discussing electricity prices for years. We remember 2018 when the Minister, the Prime Minister, promised us that in 2019 these prices would not increase. Quickly, under the cover of the night in 2018, we passed a law in December to stop price increases, which was not true, because prices were still rising. It later turned out that the passed law was incompatible with EU law, so it needs to be amended. And we changed. We amended this law in 2019 in January, we changed it in 2019 in February. In order for it to function normally, a regulation of the Minister of Energy was needed to determine and determine the conditions for how this price difference would be and how these prices would be compensated, how these amounts would be compensated for by energy companies. There were also promises that the regulation was ready, but there is only a question of the entry into force of this law. The Regulation only appeared in July 2019. Minister, I would like to know how this bill is implemented, how much money has already been earmarked for this compensation? How does the Ministry implement this regulation that it itself issued? How do energy companies, which today, as we hear it, report, have objections, or are those funds that secured the ministry, and were talking about PLN 6 billion, not going to amount to PLN 12 billion? Second question. Are energy companies, Minister, no longer securing reserves today to cover losses for 2019 caused, among others. so-called. compensation? Third question. We are dealing with the year 2019. Will we be back in December? [[♪ The bell ♪]] make laws with which you want to maintain energy prices supposedly at 2018 level? Will we fight again under the cover of the night to make the bill sound and not require change?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u132	Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u133	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for these questions of the PO-KO Parliamentary Club, because this gives the opportunity to inform the High House and citizens about the programme against the rise in electricity prices, which we managed to introduce and implement in 2019. I would like to remind you that in the third and fourth quarters of 2018 various information appeared in the media, also that these prices would increase by 30%. Mr. President Rzeszów said 68%. What's our status as of this day? Local governments, including Rzeszów, will not pay more in 2019 than in 2018. Their contracts have been adjusted accordingly in August and September, with an adjustment from 1 January 2019. Since the beginning of 2019 a group of the most vulnerable customers, i.e. households, accounts for electricity at a price lower than in 2018. If you look at what it looks like in Europe, you can say that in 20 European countries prices for households have risen, we have fallen by about 8%. Where it was possible to freeze prices in the second half of the year, this was introduced and, in view of the findings with the European Commission, we proposed aid under authorised de minimis aid for other recipients. Of course, someone can say that our mechanisms are complicated. You even remember the situation with making statements to energy sellers. Ladies and gentlemen, we have stopped the energy price increases for 17.5 million different end-users, for households, local governments, entrepreneurs, farmers, associations, churches or hospitals. Each group practically had a different price and other contracts. It was a very big challenge for my department, but the current end-user accounts and the data of the European Commission confirm that we have succeeded. In reply to the question concerning the regulation, I inform you and your fellow Members that the regulation was issued by the Ministry of Energy on 19 July, i.e. according to the deadline resulting from the law, i.e. 21 days from the date of entry into force of the June amendment of the Law of 28 December. As far as the costs of the whole mechanism are concerned, they are as follows: excise duty reduction - 1,85 billion, reduction in the transitional fee - 2.24 billion, payments from the Fund for Payment of Differences Prices - approx. 4.5 billion PLN. So the total amount is 8.6 billion, and not, as Members point out in their question, 12 billion PLN. Indeed, in public space there were various attacks on the Ministry of Energy, that all this would cost more, i.e. However, none of the people who have previously published this type of data no longer indicate that these are such costs because they do not find support in the data. At the same time, I wanted to inform you that the Difficulty Payment Fund Prices work well, smoothly, is well managed by the clearing managers and thus received nearly 300 requests from trading companies, customers buying energy on the stock exchange. The Member asked about the size of this fund. At the moment it is over PLN 3800 million, at the moment we still have the end of the year ahead of us. The first payment from the fund was made on 9 October. Now there is a period in which practically every day decisions on payments are made. De minimis aid applications for the 3rd quarter of 2019 will begin to arrive soon. Therefore, it must be stated that what has been planned is in line with the previous announcements. At present, the Ministry of Energy is analysing potential solutions that can be applied to the electricity market in 2020. They take into account the development of the economy, expectations, social conditions and existing European Union regulations. The conclusions of the analyses carried out will be possible after two conditions have been met: the first condition is the termination of contracts on the electricity market, a significant part of the volume for the next year. The largest contracting of this energy is in the fourth quarter of this year. At the end of this period, electricity prices for final customers can be reliably forecasted. The second condition is that the President of the Energy Regulatory Office launches the process of approving tariffs for households next year. That's what it looks like right now. If there is a need to supplement the material with certain graphs, indicating what the cultivation looks like, what electricity prices look like, they change very much throughout the year, then such material is available, we can discuss it in more detail if necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u134	Here you go, extra question. Stay on the stand. The Member asks a question from where he sits.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u135	Minister! Ahead of 2020 Poles are waiting for what the government will offer them in terms of rising energy prices. Is what the media is scaring today in various publications that the price of electricity will go up by about 40% Is it true? Is it true what Deputy Prime Minister Sasin said before the elections in the electoral debates that the price of electricity will not increase in 2020? Will you keep your word, or will you lie to Poles?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u136	Mr. Speaker! As I said before: electricity prices have not yet been contracted until the end of the year. Today, it is difficult to determine the final price for 2020. I've given the reasons. I also gave graphs on which you can see what they look like in terms of contracting next year. As I said, we are taking steps in this direction to consider all possible aspects of the functioning of this market for the next year. We will analyse them and communicate them to you in good time. [[Then what right did the Deputy Prime Minister say the prices wouldn't rise?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u137	But, sir, this is not a form of discussion, it is an additional question. Thank you very much in this situation. Let's move on to the next question. There is no Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Mr. Rafał Weber. Therefore, Mr Grabarczyk must wait. We move on to the next question we address to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration will answer Mr Jarosław Zieliński. Mariusz Trepka will ask both questions about MSWiA's information on how many units of CSR in the country, in particular in the Silesian and Łódź voivodship, received funding for the purchase of cars and for other purposes in the years 2011 You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u138	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Thank you very much to the Government of Law and Justice for allocating PLN 82 million to support voluntary fire services. The role of individuals cannot be overestimated TSOs shall provide each day to the inhabitants of their region. Our opponents said that the transfer of grants through the State Fire Department Commandant would reduce funding for CSR units. But it's different. These measures were previously distributed in different ways. The Chief of State Fire Department didn't know which CSR units they were coming to, so they went to some of them several times, to others - not at all. Now the Chief Chief, with all the resources, can evenly decompose them. Except evenly it doesn't mean evenly, but depending on the needs. Dear Minister, Please inform us how many units of CSR in the country and also in the Śląskie voivodship received funding in the years 2011 to 2015 for the purchase of cars and other needs and how much in the years 2016 to 2019. I would also ask you to compare how many units of CSR received funding from the PiS government and how many were received from our predecessors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u139	Please answer the questions asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u140	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for these opinions expressed in the question. Indeed, voluntary fire workers play a very important role in the internal security system. The Government of Law and Justice has been doing everything in its power for four years. Fewly this year's decisions - the granting of PLN 82 million for the activities they carry out, but for activities which are not strictly rescue and fire-fighting activities - are evidence of appreciation for the social activities they carry out. Thank you for noticing. But I would like to focus on numbers, because the question really concerns concrete figures, quotas and purchased cars. So I'm gonna let myself get to that data. In 2015 - this is the last year of the governments of our predecessors - the amount of PLN 105,5 million has been transferred to the CSR units, including for CSR units included in the national emergency and emergency systems - PLN 73 million, and for CSR units not included in this system - PLN 32,5 million. At the same time, the amount transferred to the TSOs, the amount of funds from insurance companies, was unknown, because they were transferred by the General Board of the Association of Voluntary Fire Guards. This information for 2015, despite the three times that the Chief Chief asked for this data, the Chief Chief, and therefore the Home Affairs Department, did not receive it. In 2016, the amount of PLN 109 million was transferred to the CSR units, including for the CSR units - PLN 73 million and for the units not included in the national emergency-gas system - PLN 36 million. Here I would like to point out that for these units already in this first budget from our time of government we increased the amount by PLN 2.5 million, although in the draft budget for 2016 prepared by the coalition PO-PSL the amount was 2.5 million less and was designed at the level of 2015. As early as in the first year, we have not yet had more opportunity to act, we have increased this by PLN 2.5 million. In addition, for CSR units from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, the amount of PLN 27.1 million was transferred. A total of PLN 136.1 million was transferred to TSOs in 2016. In 2017, the amount of PLN 127 million from the Modernization Act has already been transferred to the TSOs, including for the TSOs included in the CRSG - PLN 81.11 million, and for the TSOs not included in the system - PLN 43 million. In addition, 3 million PLN was transferred from the funds at the disposal of the Chief of State Fire Service. Also additionally, the amount of PLN 32.6 million was transferred to these units from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. A total of PLN 162.6 million was transferred to the TSOs in 2017. You can see progress here, you can see an increase in resources every year. I'm giving accurate data so that it can be compared and calculated, as well as the percentage increase. In 2018, an amount of PLN 125.35 million, including units included in the CRSG - PLN 83.95 million, was transferred under the Modernization Act to the TSOs and units not included in the system - PLN 41.4 million. As part of the amendments by MEPs of Law and Justice, that is an additional amount, the CSR units were transferred PLN 10 million. From the grant of MMSWiA to youth fire camps 2 million PLN was transferred. From the Justice Fund, it was also a new form, a new source of grants for TSOs, transferred through local authorities in 2018 the amount of PLN 103 million. PLN 7 million was transferred from the funds at the disposal of the Chief of the State Fire Service. In addition, 99 million PLN was transferred to these units from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. In total, in 2018 CSR units received PLN 336.35 million. In 2019 CSR units transferred the amount of PLN 125.35 million under the Modernization Act, including CSR units included in the National Gas and Rescue System - PLN 83.95 million, and CSR units that are not included in the KSRG - PLN 41.4 million. In addition, MSWiA was transferred to youth fire camps of PLN 3.1 million. The amount of PLN 82 million has also been transferred, this is the new amount that we have been talking about this year, on social activities affecting the rescue and fire-fighting activities, which are not strictly such actions after the amendment of the Fire Protection Act, and on 24 million PLN at the disposal of the Chief of State Fire Department. In addition, CSR units from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, also from voivodship funds, because this is the total amount, transferred 130 275 thousand. zł. In total, in 2019 the TSOs received 364 725 000. PLN per year. In total, 999 775 000 were transferred to the CSR units between 2016 and 2019. zł. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'd like to finish, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u141	No, Minister, in a moment. Wait a minute. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: After the extra question, right? The Member will ask an additional question and then you will have 3 minutes to answer. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u142	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Once again, thank you very much on behalf of the volunteer firefighters. It can be seen that these amounts that the Minister has quoted to us are increasing in relation to previous years. I would like to ask more about Silesian and Łódź voivodships. What did it look like in previous years, and how is it today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u143	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u144	Thank you very much. Mr President, I have just prepared this. In this situation, I will finish with this data, because I know that this is expected too. I will repeat once again that in 2016 and 2019 the amount of almost PLN 1 billion was transferred to the TSOs, because 999 770 thousand. zł. It's four years. This year is still under way. It's about the amounts allocated. In total over the previous 5 years, i.e. Between 2011 and 2015, CSR units received 510 100 000. zł. Almost half of it for five years, which is now four years. It's double height. More, because time is shorter. Between 2011 and 2015, 961 rescue cars were purchased for CSR units, 80 of them for Śląskie voivodship and 46 for Łódź voivodship. Between 2016 and 2019, i.e. during these 4 years, the fourth year is realization, I will repeat this once again, 1417 rescue and extinguisher cars were purchased for CSR units. Then 961 in five years, then 1417 in four years. By year 2016 202 cars were purchased, in 2017 - 350 cars, in 2018 - 375. In 2019, it is an absolute record of records, 490 cars were purchased, of which 141 vehicles were purchased for the Silesian voivodship and 134 for the Łódź voivodship. In addition, 609 rescue cars were purchased from other financial sources than those made up of financial assembly in the case of purchases of the previously mentioned ones in 2016 and 2019. It is about self-government resources, State Forest funds, own resources of CSR units and private companies. In total, between 2016 and 2019 it was purchased, adding cars purchased from these sources other than this typical financial assembly - it can be said that it is a classic financial assembly that we always compose - 2026 fire-fighting cars for CSR units. This new grant is about PLN 82 million, thanks to the recent amendment of the Fire Protection Act in the Łódź Voivodeship, 907 units of CSR were used and 1329 units of CSR in the Śląskie Voivodship. I will add that, on a national scale, all TSOs that have submitted applications in two tranches in two rounds and 16 013 units in two rounds. [[♪ The bell ♪]] - not all have submitted, because not all meet the formal conditions, not all have an entry in the National Court Register - but all have received a grant at the requested amount. And this is historically a very important situation that is new support for TSOs. The TSOs will certainly benefit from this. They're already enjoying it. And we're happy to be able to support them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u145	Thank you very much. We now move on to the questions that will be answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Mr Rafał Weber. We begin by asking Ms Joanna Borowiak on the implementation of the Local Roads Fund programme, to the Minister of Infrastructure. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u146	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! In October 2018, the Sejm adopted a law on the Fund for Local Roads. It is a historical special-purpose fund that provides financial support to local governments for the construction and modernisation of road connections. The amount planned for 2019 is PLN 6 billion, and ultimately to be PLN 36 billion. The purpose of setting up the Self-Government Road Fund is to accelerate the creation of modern, secure road infrastructure at local level, which is an important element of the proper functioning and development of the economy and to improve the standard of living of citizens. The creation of the fund aims to improve road safety, the technical parameters of the local road network, but also to increase the attractiveness and accessibility of investment areas. The purpose of building such road connections is to complement local road infrastructure, and this is understood as complementary to the construction of motorways and expressways, so that a coherent integrated transport system is established in the country. Local governments apply to the fund with great interest, and the funds go to municipalities in a sustainable way. They receive this money especially from municipalities which, due to the slimness of the budget, could not afford to finance the construction of roads. Minister! How is the implementation of the programme currently underway, and how much money has been made available to the various voivodships at this moment? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u147	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The development of local roads networks of all categories, communal and district, and voivodship, alongside the development of national roads, is one of the main transport priorities of the current government. It should be stressed that municipal and district roads account for 90% public roads throughout Poland. Therefore, the Government of Law and Justice strengthened financial support for these roads and set up a Fund for Roads of Local Government. Ladies and gentlemen! A huge success is this tool, this instrument that we introduced last year. Local government officials at both municipal and district level apply for funding, obtaining funds to modernise local road networks on their own territory. Of course, the opposition and questioned the financing mechanism itself, and questioned the scale of the funds that were included in the Act. [[Because it's pure propaganda.]] However, after recruitment in 2019 we can say that we consistently implement this law. As we predicted, this is how we realized it. 6 billion PLN in just one year will go to local authorities, mainly to local and district authorities, to carry out tasks related to the modernisation of local roads. [[For four years.]] The Act assumes that this funding will be spread over 10 years and that during this period, during this decade, we will mobilise PLN 36 billion for these investment tasks. So that the Self-Government Road Fund is the largest, after 1989, integrated instrument to support the implementation of investments on roads managed by local government units. It is also worth mentioning that many individuals have received higher support than so far, i.e. higher than 50% the value of the investment. Many local government units received support of 80%, 70%, 60% of their value. We have tried to create an algorithm in the bill that will render justice, an algorithm that will allow us to support local governments that have so far not been able to carry out very large investment tasks. It is also worth mentioning that we have broken another barrier, i.e. a barrier to individual financing of a given investment. Now this limit is set to PLN 30 million. So that you can really get a lot of money and force yourself to implement such communication solutions that will actually be consistent with high-speed roads, such as connections to high-speed roads, viaducts under or above the tracks. Indeed, these are very serious tasks that have not yet been carried out because there has been no such support as assistance from the Self-Government Road Fund. Ladies and gentlemen! Several statistics, because she asked not only about the financial resources that went to local governments in 2019 but also about the number of tasks being carried out. As part of this first selection, which was somewhat taken over by the Self-Government Roads Fund, the recruitment, which was announced on the basis of the municipal development programme and district road infrastructure, received as many as 897 applications, of which 583 are municipal applications and 314 are county applications. In March and April, signed by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki on 30 August this year, as many as 3220 applications were funded, of which 2408 covers municipal tasks and 812 - county tasks. I believe that this list will be extended because local government officials, when deciding on tenders, receive savings which are later directed towards tasks that are included in the reserve lists. This was the case in the case of the first recruitment, this is the case in the case of the current recruitment. So this list is variable, it's not going to shorten, it's going to extend. We see that there are savings when it comes to tenders, and these savings are used to ensure that further tasks from reserve lists are included in the basic list and receive funding. In total, as part of the Local Road Fund, we have financed modernisation, construction, reconstruction and renovation of local roads. This is 4117 tasks, over 3,000. they constitute municipal tasks and more than 1100 - tasks relating to district road networks. Ladies and gentlemen, we already have the first data on the number of kilometres of roads that have been completed using government support, 6200 km. These are tasks supported by the Self-Government Road Fund. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Three and a half thousand. carried out as part of municipal tasks, 2700 - as part of county tasks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u148	Stay on the stand. Mrs Lidia Burzyńska will ask an additional question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u149	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In fact, the Minister has already answered the questions I wanted to ask you as a supplement. I want it to be clear here that the Self-Government Road Fund is undoubtedly real aid, a bow towards municipal and district authorities. This is not theoretical support of equivalent development of municipal and district Poland, it is simply practical. Thank you so much for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u150	Thank you very much. Marshal, one more sentence. We were, in fact, leading, the voivods were recruiting for 2020. At the moment, we know that these applications are analysed by committees operating at voivodship offices. If I am not mistaken, for 2020 3200 million PLN was allocated, so that further funds will be allocated to local government units to support these investment tasks. As I said, we will consistently run this program, we will push billions more into Polish self-governments so that the roads are modernised. We really take this task as a civilization task. We realize that daily trips of Polish residents to school, workplace, church, cultural centre, health centre are very important, and these activities improve not only the safety of the journey, but also the quality and standard of life. This is how we look at the construction of roads not only on the scale of the national road network, on the scale of the road network, but also on the scale of the local road network, and for the years to come we will support local authorities in their efforts to improve the quality of local roads in Poland. Thank you very much. Thank you, Member. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u151	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. The question will be asked by Mr Cezary Grabarczyk and Mr Paweł Suski from the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. The question concerns delays in the construction of city bypasses in Poland in the context of the announced new programme of construction of 100 bypasses. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Mr Rafał Weber, answers to the fact that the question is addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u152	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's proceedings as well as yesterday's should not It's already happening. Many years of tradition and long-standing constitutional custom have been broken, that the Sejm in its old composition does not sit after the elections. Why? Because there are parliamentarians in the Chamber who have not been trusted for a new term. The fact that you broke that habit will be remembered. Now, let's get to the point. Minister, this is an argument confirming the thesis I just said. We wanted to ask you about your promise to build 100 bypasses in the context of the election program, because the important word in these elections was credibility, and you are not credible. You're announcing the construction of 100 bypasses, and you're not dealing with the construction of those that are under way. This reminds us of today's work, the post-election road slide. Let me ask you: What about the Częstochowa ring road? What about the southern ring road of Piotrkov Trybunalski, S12? There's only an environmental decision there. What about the western ring road of Łódź, whose implementation is already delayed by 3 years? What about the southern ring road of Warsaw? What about the Kolbiel ring road? What about the Koszalin and Sianov ring road? What about the Vulture and Stone ring road? You're unbelievable. Today, just now, you've also been doing propaganda because you're just developing a scheming program. And it's a good thing you're developing a scheming program, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because it was a very good show. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u153	I'm asking you to answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u154	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen! High Izbo! Speaking of the first part of your speech, Minister, I will not take away the rights of those parliamentarians who are Members of this term and may now ask questions on current matters, they may be allowed to be in the plenary room and may ask questions about matters which interest them, but also about the communities of the regions from which they come from, the regions in which they have won mandates in the 8th term. That is why I respectfully address the question of Mr Cezary Grabarczyk and Mr Paul Suski. I will try to answer this question in this substantive part. I have not remembered all the bypasses you have cited, so that you will allow me to refer to some of them in writing. Ladies and gentlemen! We're doing a national road construction program. It is implemented in a very intense way. Let me remind you that we have increased the financial limit for the tasks that have been recorded in this programme. At the moment this limit amounts to PLN 142 billion, and when we took power almost four years ago, it was PLN 107 billion. This difference, this amount will allow for a much larger range of tasks on the network of high-speed roads, but also on bypasses, than was foreseen by the governments of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party. Of course, the investment process, when we talk about road construction, is not a simple process. This is not a bread bake, in which case when the ink comes out, it's just that the ink is put down, another bread is put in the oven and the product is ready in half an hour. In fact, we have to deal with some problems, in fact we have to face some difficulties which are not dependent on the Minister of Infrastructure, nor on the investor or the contracting authority, which is the General Directorate of National Roads and Motorways, but in our opinion and probably also in the assessment of voters, because the subject of supposedly not building roads in Poland was very loud, very strongly raised by you... I think it's in the voter's opinion, too, since they've entrusted us with power for years to come, it's not so bad with this subject... [[And the Senate?]] ...and the individual results of the constitutional minister or the minister directly responsible for road construction show this as best as possible. Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to the programme announced by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, I am also pleased that the opposition demands it to be implemented in such a short period of time. That means we're in public demand. This means that once again we will be able to live up to the expectations that society creates, and I hope that we will do this together. I hope that the tasks that will be carried out are the tasks for which parliamentarians from other clubs will also seek, because we know that these are the tasks for which the communities of the regions concerned have been waiting for years. In the end, they will be able to achieve further investment tasks through this new programme, and we will be able - not only as part of the national road construction programme with a view to 2025, but also as part of the new programme - to carry out further investment tasks when it comes to the construction of bypasses in our country. At the moment, investments that could be made are being prepared, together with a potential timetable for implementation. As I said, the announcement of the Prime Minister is very fresh, but we are already working very hard to create this programme and to fill out, as in this earlier term, the declarations that fall out of our mouths. It must be borne in mind that investment implementation is a time-consuming process, but we already know that this new programme will include both the bypasses that have a preparatory process behind them and those for which it will only start. We believe that this programme will have a time horizon by the end of 2030, but at the stage at which we are, we cannot determine the exact or factual... We cannot mention the specific investments that will be included in it or determine the financial scope. On the other hand, the general idea will be to build a new bypass, where important traffic factors justify this, i.e. the intensity of traffic on national roads at the moment, but also social factors, i.e. those factors which are directly related to the society of the region. As we consistently implement the Self-Government Road Fund, so consistently in the new term or in the new term of office [[♪ The bell ♪]] We're going to run a construction program for 100 bypasses.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u155	Mr Paweł Suski will ask an additional question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u156	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You speak beautifully, I have the impression that even with humility and that you treat these responsibilities completely differently than you treated them as a Member - who criticized when we were building. We built over 50 bypasses in eight years. You're talking about 100 for a decade. It's even more psychic, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki spoke about a completely different date before the election. You're unbelievable because you're using road construction for political purposes. The General Directorate for Roads on the website on 25 September published a list of roads, almost 20 investments to be disseminated this year, presented for use by drivers. This isn't gonna work out, because the day after the election, you made a deal, including. a contract for the construction of the Wałcz ring road, my city, [[Applause]] where we stand in traffic for an hour [[♪ The bell ♪]] And we have a big problem with that. You've been building the Wałcz ring road for four years. You can't finish one, and you want to build 100. [[Applause]] [[Sir, take it easy.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u157	I'm asking you to answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u158	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, I was unlucky and could not, as a parliamentarians, criticize the government of the Civic Platform, which was formulated between 2007 and 2015, but I would actually do so. [[Tell that to the people of Walcz.]] If you promised to connect Poland and Ukraine by the A4 motorway to the 2012 European Championship, and this did not even happen to the 2016 European Championship in France, then indeed, dear gentlemen, we would have something to criticize. [[$3,000. km of high-speed roads and highways.]] I welcome this question, Mr Walcz, because I think you will agree with me that the company that carries out this task, not even pretending to work, but not doing it at all, must say goodbye to the contract. Mr President, concrete figures. [[Then why are you kidding the voters that you're gonna pay them back by the end of the year? It's impossible.]] It's specific. The actual progress of the Wałcz ring road section. January this year - 81.7, February - 82, March - 83, April - 83.9, May - 83.9, June - 84, July - the best months to work - again 84, August - 84, September - 85.4 . We acted on the basis of the law, repeatedly called on the contractor to carry out the contract he signed, to carry out the task he committed himself to. On the other hand, these values, which I have now quoted, have forced us to do this, not another course, just to accomplish this task. [[The deadline was until the end of May.]] We know that it is needed, we know that it is urgent, we know the road situation in Walcz, and that is why the contracting authority did what he did, because we want to accomplish this task as soon as possible. And we're gonna do everything we can to reopen the investment process on this episode. And we're gonna do everything we can to make 15% The one that's missing right now has been completed. I'm coming back... Mr Grabarczyk asked about the Częstochowa ring road. You know very well that the works were resumed there, that the company that continues the contract signed I think in your time with the Italians, he committed to making the A1 road on this section passable by the end of 2019. If the weather conditions are favourable - and we all know that this is also a very important factor - we will keep this promise and this commitment. And by the end of this year A1 as the ring road of Częstochowa will be made available to drivers for traffic. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u159	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. They will be asked - both the main and the additional question - by Mrs Anna Czech on the systematic change in the list of medicines, which helps to treat many diseases - to the Minister for Health. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Maciej Miłkowski will answer. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u160	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister very warmly for his great commitment, for his great work and cooperation with the patient organisations to introduce modern therapies in the treatment of many diseases. Recently, particularly important therapies are new therapies for patients with advanced breast cancer and for patients with Crohn's disease. It is about two important biological drugs that complement each other and give really great comfort to the sick. I have this question: What effects, apart from those I mentioned, has the refund list come from, and what new solutions have other groups of patients brought? I also know that there is still work to be done on further solutions and reimbursements of further therapies. The question is: What therapies are the Minister working on at the moment, and what groups of patients will they be targeted at? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u161	I'm asking you to answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u162	Dear Marshal! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you very much for these questions. As regards the treatment of breast cancer and Crohn's Crohn's cancer: in fact, in the case of these two diseases mostly drug programs have been launched since 1 September this year. Hormone-dependent breast cancer, HER2-negative breast cancer - two medicines were authorised in the indication with aromatase inhibitors with betrozole and one medicine with fulvestrant was authorised. In case of Crohn's disease we have authorised Stelara from 1 September on the second line of treatment, which can only be given for one year, and there are very good results of this treatment. Very good negotiations with a company in which we could actually pay for the effect of this therapy... And now we have concluded the second negotiation with another company that will have a drug in the same indication, this is Vedolizumab Entyvio. That's what the patients were waiting for, and the medical community. So that in this respect we have also completed the treatments that were expected for Lesniowski-Crohn. As for the current new technologies that we have been working on, which are completed, in the case of multiple sclerosis in the second line of treatment we have allowed two new drugs: Ocrevus (ocrelizumab) and Maventiclad (cladribine) in the projection-remission form of the disease. These are also expected medications, with minor side effects or a completely different mechanism of use, which can be taken very briefly and for which the effect persists during the entire treatment, from the second year. As far as multiple sclerosis is concerned, for the first time a medicine has been registered for the original progressive form of the disease and here also Ocrevus will be available and this is the only treatment. So far, patients have not been able to treat this disease unit. As far as November is concerned, one of the biggest groups is diabetes. A new group of medicines have been introduced for many years. For 10 years there have already been flozin available on the market and for all there are very good results of treatment. Recent scientific reports indicate that the cost of cardiovascular complications as well as renal complications has been significantly reduced. These medicines will be available for patients from 1 November. As far as diabetes is concerned, we've been very focused on this... From 1 November, another long-acting insulin will be on the list. A regulation on monitoring glycaemic levels among children by means of the Flash system was signed in October, so that this application of the whole diabetes package makes it much better to treat, less complications, can even save money. As far as additional items are concerned, there will be another asthma medication - Fasenra and a long-awaited medicine for patients with colon cancer - Lonsurf. In the case of the third and fourth intestinal cancer lines We also have the entire program completed and it will be available. Then in the programs, in the pharmacy also due to the failure to submit a project, the proposal to extend the funding to patients of a desensitizing drug... It's about home dust allergy, Novo-Helisen. We were able to communicate with the company and from 1 November will be available in pharmacies a maintenance dose, which for 4 months was not available at all. So that it will be available back on the market. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And we're still working, we've got a few medications here that we haven't finished working on yet.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u163	An additional question, please. Minister! Stay on the speaker, because the Member asks from where he sits.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u164	Yes, thank you very much. Minister! Thank you so much for this comprehensive answer. This certainly represents satisfaction for these many groups of patients. Thank you very much again, I know it's very necessary. I just wanted to get back to the sick issue for a second, to the patients with advanced breast cancer. Some patients cannot be qualified for this treatment and the additional question is this: Does the Ministry plan to extend the treatment program to patients with HER negative metastatic breast cancer? Treatment options for the HER2 receptor are limited to the above treatment, i.e. palbocycline and ribocycline. Then you cannot treat these patients, and this significantly affects the duration of the remission period. It's about extending your life for several months or even longer. Is there any chance these patients will be included in this program? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u165	Both indications for patients with HER negative breast cancer were created, as requested by the responsible companies. The administrative process is quite long, it's about preparing documentation. The medical technology assessment agency's analyzing this... So this documentation, which is now, these indications that are now, have been analyzed. In this regard, national consultants spoke. Finally, the prices of these products were negotiated with the Economic Commission and all of this was accepted by the Minister of Health. This was also the scope of applications from companies. Nobody made any additional comments. The only issue that we are now looking at is this -- we are doing this on our own initiative -- so that patients who have started treatment in any way can qualify for a drug program and finance therapy from their own sources, and they can complete therapy by funding it from public funds. Of course, the treatment regimen here is 4 and 6 applications every 6 weeks, so that there will be more new patients coming in here. As far as extending the scope of the indications is concerned, national consultants have the right to apply for such an extension, and then with the medical technology assessment agency we analyse whether this is an indication of whether this population can be expanded. There are different kinds of analyses. So that we will certainly analyze it and we will examine it in this respect. But as I said, we are certainly already increasing to one extent, to continue with patients who have already started therapy to finance it from public funds. Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u166	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Mr Czesław Sobierajski and Mr Aleksander Mrówczyński, the Law and Justice on support for people with significant disabilities requiring constant and long-term assistance, with a significantly limited possibility of independent existence, which do not have any income. The question is addressed to the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Krzysztof Michałkiewicz will answer the question. Please, Mrs Gabriela Mastowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u167	Minister! People who have a disability ruling and who require care because of the limited possibility of self-existence come to my parliamentary office quite often. The problem is that, at the same time, they do not have pension benefits, because in the last 10 years prior to the onset of disability or the submission of an application for a pension or pension, they do not have 5 years' contributions in terms of insurance, for example. Two and a half years. Therefore, they simply do not have a pension or a pension, i.e. they do not have a means of living. The problem is also that at this point, they cannot benefit from a supplemental benefit of 500+ granted by the Government of Law and Justice to the current term of office, and because it is clear from the rules that total inability to exist alone is required there. In addition, according to this law, if a person turns 75 and has a nursing allowance, although there is no ruling on incapacity for self-existence, he may also apply for 500+. They are often people who are 75 years old. So I have a question: What is the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy going to propose to these people what is the solution to this situation, the hopeless situation of many families? Or, for example, there is a way for these people to be covered as well. [[♪ The bell ♪]] supplemental service of 500+? They're looking forward to it. They're looking forward to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u168	Thank you very much, Member. Minister Krzysztof Michałkiewicz will answer the questions. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u169	Mrs. Marshal! Mrs. Member! High Izbo! Of course, support for people with significant disabilities is a priority of the Government of Law and Justice, while it is very diverse and very different instruments are used because there are people with different needs, different disabilities and this disability is linked to different limitations. Hence the number of instruments we use is really large. I will remind you of the most important and most commonly used ones. I will also remind you that people also have support from families, it is a maintenance obligation of parents to children, children to parents, siblings to siblings, etc., etc., so it is also worth remembering. On the other hand, when it comes to government instruments - because, of course, the government does not shirk responsibility for the functioning of these people - there are a lot of them, as I said. We will start with what all people with disabilities but also people over 75 years of age receive, i.e. it is a care allowance. It is granted on the basis of the Family Benefits Act and is paid in the amount of PLN 184,42, from 1 November it will be PLN 215,84. I would like to remind you that since 2006 he has been unvalorized, was PLN 153. Only in 2018, during the next period of verification of this benefit, we raised it in two steps and as I say, from 1 November it will be PLN 215.84. If a person receives ZUS benefits, then instead of a care allowance he receives a care allowance of PLN 215. So all people who, because of age or disability or illness, need increased operating costs due to treatment, disability, care, receive this care allowance. As part of equalising the opportunities of people with disabilities in their daily functioning, as well as social and professional integration, they have resources, large resources from the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities - 5.5 billion PFRON's budget is this year and, of course, it is spent entirely on support for people with disabilities. We also finance, through the algorithm, the provision of rehabilitation equipment, orthopedic objects, support measures granted to disabled persons on the basis of separate regulations from the NFZ through the transfer of funds to district family aid centers. We finance rehabilitation tours, eliminate architectural and technical barriers to communication, which is related to individual needs arising from disability. As I say, funds are transferred to the PCPR. The PCPR decides which of these people will receive this support and at what level. She mentioned a complementary provision for people unable to live on their own: 500+, which came into force. The law began to apply on 1 October. It is true that, in addition to a ruling on a significant disability or even a limited possibility for self-existence, these persons need one of the four judgments issued by the Social Insurance Institution. These are the following: a judgment on total incapacity for work and incapacity for self-existence, a judgment on incapacity for self-existence, a judgment on total incapacity for work on the farm and an incapacity for self-existence, a judgment on total incapacity for service and an incapacity for self-existence. If a disabled person has only a judgment on a significant disability and there is no ruling of the Social Security Office, then of course he can obtain it. Then only the inability to exist on its own is determined, because inability to exist on its own is an element that is decisive when it comes to granting a benefit. Of course, you must be 18 years old, and you must also have public benefits of an appropriate amount - not exceeding 1,600 PLN. All benefits of a one-off nature, survivor's pensions, care allowances, allowances and income obtained in connection with professional activity resulting from employment contracts, civil law contracts, business activities are excluded. It's all off. This PLN 1600 of total benefits must be public benefits. Of course, you can also have no income. This is also common among people with disabilities. As far as the other instruments we are applying are concerned, this is support from social assistance measures. Persons who do not have any funds do not have a pension [[♪ The bell ♪]] social or pension benefits from the Social Insurance Institution may apply for a permanent allowance from social assistance funds. The income criterion is 528 PLN per person in the family or 701 PLN for a single person. Social assistance centres shall also have specialised care services which may be granted to persons on grounds of age, illness or disability. This may be a place in a family social security home, a shelter or a social security home. A person like that can also be placed...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u170	Minister, time is up. Secretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Krzysztof Michałkiewicz: ...in day support centers. The instruments we use are really, really much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Minister. The supplementary question is asked by Mrs Gabriela Masłowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u171	Minister! In view of the introduction of a supplemental benefit of 500+ on 1 October, I would like to ask how many applications for this benefit have been received so far and how many people have already received it. What's the scale of size, the scale of interest? Do you have any discernment - perhaps it is too detailed a question, in which case I will ask for a written reply - whether of those who have a PFRON ruling with limited capacity to exist alone are those who apply for a ZUS ruling, which is a condition for them to obtain 500+? Or persons with PFRON rulings [[♪ The bell ♪]] They go on this road to get 500+? What's the interest? Thank you. [[What's the interest?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u172	Thank you, Member. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u173	Thank you, Member. Of course, the interest in providing 500+ for people with disabilities is really very high. The Act entered into force on 1 October, but already on 2 September the Social Insurance Institution launched a hotline. Information was also provided in the briefing rooms, in the service rooms. More than 1 million people have reported to pension advisors on supplementary benefits information. It was over 30,000. persons who only used information through the hotline in September. The Social Insurance Institution and the KRUS also put a model application on their websites in September and these applications have already been submitted. If I remember correctly, in September, before the law entered into force, 160 thousand were filed in the ZUS itself. conclusions. At the moment, there are 280 thousand in the Social Insurance Institution. conclusions. On the other hand, some of those who have a full judgment, including the inability to exist on their own, have already been granted decisions. 64,000. proposals are already being considered positively. The first benefits have already been paid. The benefits shall be paid on the same dates as the pensions. 17 million 825 thousand. PLN was paid from the Social Insurance Institution. Also about 100,000. applications were submitted to the KRUS, the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund. About 40,000 are considered positive. conclusions. The KRUS pays benefits on other dates. As of today, more than 13 million zlotys have been paid to farmers who are unable to live on their own. It is worth mentioning that in ZUS, and in KRUS we plan to run - in ZUS already started, in KRUS we will start in the second half of October... These applications, together with the annexes, will be available online, i.e. also... Of course, it is also possible for the agents to do so, because the application is accompanied by medical documentation and often, on the basis of this documentation and application, the teams decide that these persons are unable to exist on their own. When necessary, they pay a visit to the home of the person concerned. As far as people with significant disabilities are concerned, many people who have such a PFRON ruling submit applications for supplementary benefits. They must get a ruling, but because it is a significant disability and, as you have said, there are also additional circumstances that accompany this significant disability, it is extended, there is a special exclusion and in the case of people with a significant disability it is 6 months to obtain a judgment on independence. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Then, from the date of submission of the application, these persons receive this benefit, with compensation. Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u174	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the last question. The question will be asked by Members Jarosław Gonciarz, Andrzej Gawron and Waldemar Andzel, Law and Justice, concerning the failure of one of the collectors sending sewage from the left bank of Warsaw to the Tchayek treatment plant. The question is addressed to the Minister of Environment. You will answer Minister Henryk Kowalczyk. Please, Mr Jarosław Gonciusz is the first question to be asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u175	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! On 27 August, one of the collectors sending sewage from the left bank of Warsaw to the Tchayka treatment plant crashed. The impurities that were then in circulation were directed to the second collector, but the next day it ceased to function. In connection with the failure of the Municipal Water and Sewerage Company, the Management Board decided to drop the pollution to the Vistula. At that time, 3,000 people went to the river. And impurities for a second. It is regrettable to note that the city services did not initially explain what had happened, and their only proposal was to dump all the sewage into the Vistula River. On the other hand, the reaction of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, who immediately decided to build a temporary pipeline, which will flow to Tchajka. However, I would like to draw attention to the concern about the environmental consequences that may arise from this event. Please answer the question whether the discharge of waste water into the Vistula will significantly affect the quality of water and thus on the local environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u176	Thank you very much. And I would like an answer from the Minister of Environment, Henryk Kowalczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u177	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Members of the House asking this question! In fact, the Provincial Environmental Inspector in Warsaw received the information on 28 September at 3 p.m. 11.25 about an accident that started. the previous day, September 27th, at 3 p.m. 7 a.m., when the primary collector malfunctioned. The next morning, however, there was a failure of a collector called a spare. And from then on, all the sewage that was discharged from the left bank of Warsaw to the Tchayek treatment plant began to be released directly into the Vistula. It was about 260 thousand. m3 per day raw waste water, municipal waste water, but also mixed with industrial waste water. As it turned out later with inventory, when checked, more than 130 different types of industrial waste water also comes to this collector. We tried to help the City Water and Sewerage Company in Warsaw very quickly to control the failure. This aid was properly rejected for the first few days. On the other hand, the Prime Minister made a decision after 2 days of sewage flow, or actually called a crisis staff and in this crisis staff, after the meeting of this staff, a decision was made that we were installing a sewage collector so-called. temporary, which will take over the waste water discharge. This was due to the fact that according to the information given by the President of Warsaw, the announcement of repairing the primary collector was that it would be a few weeks or even a few months. After a few days, it turned out that the repair was really planned for a few months, and it was impossible for raw sewage to enter the Vistula in such quantities. Let us remind you that when there was this failure, there was, first, a very low state of water and, second, there were very high temperatures, which actually posed a huge threat to the environment, but also to human health. In addition, we must remember that the town of Płock still has a shot of water for residents directly from the Vistula. Since 28 September, since this information has been received, the Environmental Protection Inspection has been conducting continuous monitoring of water quality testing from the point of discharge of raw sewage to the Baltic Sea. This monitoring indicated a significant excess of the permitted standards in most water parameters. When it comes to exceeding the standards, we're not talking about sewage, we're talking about water in the Vistula where the sewage has already been mixed up. Hence, environmental damage could, of course, have been very serious. However, thanks to the fact that within 2 weeks it was possible to actually build a pontoon bridge and arrange temporary pipelines on this bridge, these damages were limited. However, over 3,500 million m3 of raw waste water has been received by this time. So it's obvious that the damage is. Luckily, sewage hasn't flown into the river for a few weeks now, so these damage, the damage, will be eliminated. On 18 September 2019 the Mazovian Regional Environmental Inspector submitted a report, a notification to the prosecution of the possibility of committing a crime in connection with, firstly, the late notification of the accident, secondly, inadequate protection and the possibility of causing significant environmental damage, significant damage in the plant and animal world, of significant sizes. A recommendation was made, firstly, to examine the causes of this ecological disaster, secondly, to introduce a timetable for the repair of the primary collector. It must be remembered all the time that this temporary collector, which operates on the pontoon bridge, cannot function with very high water status, and it is absolutely impossible for it to survive even the floating crevice, that is absolutely unrealistic. Hence, among others. a recommendation that a new collector be built by 15 November to draw up a timetable. This timetable has been developed, appropriate decisions have been imposed. In connection with the slow handling of these decisions, Mazowiecki WIAŚ imposed a fine of 50,000 fines on the company of waterworks and sewage systems. zł, compeling to comply with the provisions. The provisions are based on the decision of the Director-General for Environmental Protection. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Today, three hours ago, despite the fact that these provisions have immediate validity, some work continues, the Warsaw waterworks have appealed against this decision, so this dispute will probably continue. We will ensure that there is a permanent protection of the sewage collector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u178	Thank you very much, Minister. The supplementary question will be asked by Mr Andrzej Gawron. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u179	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Thank you for this quite detailed information. I have an additional question about the reaction of environmental organizations, because it was a really big environmental disaster, and somehow I didn't hear it in the media, it didn't break through at least... What did the ministry look like? Did these organisations, which sometimes work very actively for the environment, in this situation come forward, write letters, work? One more thing, because Tchajka's treatment plant is also connected with the failure of the incinerator of sludges from this treatment plant, also from other treatment plants. Question: "Is there a notification to the law enforcement authorities to the prosecutor's office in the case of the Tchayek treatment plant?" According to the information, these wastes, these settlements are being exported somewhere in the vicinity of Warsaw. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do these agreements provide for e.g. soil studies that confirm that this is not harmful to the environment? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u180	Thank you very much. As for the latter part of the question, namely environmental organisations, they did not show special activity in terms of branding, warning the population or the environment. It was a strange fact that this was not the focus of environmental organisations, and it was a pity, because it could at this point cause much more vigilance of the inhabitants of the river, of the Vistula. What is the reason for this silence, I will not explain here. As far as sediments are concerned, during the inspection of the Tchajka treatment plant, it turned out that also waste incineration plant, i.e. sewage sludge, is about bringing them to safe use, has been malfunctioning for several months. Not much, it turns out for a few years... From the moment it was put into service, it was actually used for half the time. Recently unsanitized sewage sludges are exported, not prepared for such removal, to different locations. There are contracts signed with the five companies that take these settlements away. At the moment it is, you can say, the control and search for these sewage sludges, where they are transported, because unfortunately they are distributed throughout Poland. It's not like they're in one place. At the moment, the Environmental Protection Inspection, the various provincial inspectors are checking the state of these settlements, where they were exported. As there was no preventive action concerning sewage sludge, the Mazovian Regional Environmental Inspector submitted a report to the CBA and the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Warsaw on 5 September to check for omissions in this case as well. Currently, as this is a very wide range, checks are under way by the Environmental Protection Inspection in different locations, concerning these settlements and how they are used, whether these settlements have been properly secured or illegally disposed of. In a few weeks, we'll probably have a complete, full knowledge of sewage sludge incinerators as well. Unfortunately, the information shows that the incineration plant has not operated for about half of the time for the last few years, and in the last few months it has not worked at all and that there has been no information about this addressed to the Regional Environmental Inspector, and that the user, which is a user of the environment, is obliged to keep the Environmental Inspector informed of any failures and safeguards made, of the counter-effects made. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the occurrence of such accidents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u181	Thank you very much, Minister. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. I'm declaring a time-out. 5:30. Then we'll move on to the voting block. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 min. 55 hours 17 min 36]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's resume the session. Please take your seats. The competent committees have submitted a report on the Senate's resolution on the Act amending the Environmental Law and certain other laws, print No 3836. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 and 5a of the Sejm's Rules of Procedure. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The formal proposal was made by Mariusz Witczak, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. Please, sir, but I understand that according to the Rules of Procedure this formal proposal will be made. [[Of course.]] Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u182	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Pursuant to the Rules of Procedure, the formal proposal concerns the agenda. I wanted to ask you for a break and an explanation of an appalling issue, because you decided to remove the Act on the transformation of the State Higher Vocational School in Kalisz into the Academy of Kalisz from the agenda. This case, your marshal, should have been solved by now two or three years ago. All criteria for the formula The State Higher Vocational School in Gorzów was long fulfilled and it was possible to transform the State Higher Vocational School in Kalisz into the Academy of Kalisz. Why are you taking this off the agenda today, and before that, you accused the committee that Mr Rafał Grupiński had led, that this law had not been passed because of its slowness? It was an obvious lie at the time, your marshal, great abuse and manipulation. And today I ask you, I ask you, PiS: Why have you removed this bill from the agenda? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u183	Thank you, sir. I would like to inform you that I have not received a report from the committee, that is, the committee has not completed its work on this bill, and that is the reason. As a formal request for interruption has been made, the request has been submitted correctly and I will therefore put this request to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 380 Members voted. For - 151, against - 223, 6 stopped. The request was not accepted. We are returning to the consideration of item 26 of the agenda: the Extraordinary Commission's report on government and senate draft laws amending the Family and Care Code Act. We proceed to the third reading. The additional committee report shall be in print No 3694-A. I ask Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u184	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present an additional report by the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications of the Government draft law amending the Family and Care Code Act, Parliamentary Printing No 3573, and the Senate draft law amending the Family and Care Code Act, Parliamentary Printing No 3486. High Izbo! The Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications after considering the amendments tabled at its meeting on 15 October 2019 requested that these amendments be rejected for reasons such that the committee decided by a majority that this was a special procedure. The Rules of Procedure of the Sejm provide for a procedure for code rules. There are deadlines for meetings, including deadlines for submitting these amendments. On the other hand, amendments were tabled from the Bankruptcy Law and the Restructuring Law at the second reading stage, which clearly violates the principle of correct legislation. The committee therefore requests that these amendments be rejected and that the law amending the Family and Care Code be adopted in its entirety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u185	Thank you, sir. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 3694. The Commission in its additional report sets out the amendments that we will be voting on first. In the 1st amendment, the applicant proposes to add articles from 1a to 1c in the draft law. This amendment is linked to the 2nd amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 1 and 2, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. 263 was for, against - 150, 3 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 3694, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 399 Members voted. 388 - for, 8 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Family and Care Code Act. We are returning to the review of item 39 of the agenda: the report of the Commission for Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the Informationization of Public Activity, the Law on Civil Status Acts, the Law on Procedure before Administrative Courts, the Law on Telecommunications Law, the Law on Rules of Conduct for Public Collections and some other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 3835. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 3835 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 424 - for, 2 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on the Informationization of Activities of Entities performing public tasks and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item 29 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism on the Government bill amending the Sports Act. The additional committee report shall be in print No 3691-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Mieczysław Kazimierz Baszka to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u186	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission dealt with the bill on 12 September. Amendments were tabled: 1., 2., 3. - committee's against four, five, six. - The committee's against it. The committee recommends voting in favour over the entire bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u187	Thank you, sir. The Commission proposes the adoption of a draft Print Act No 3691. The Commission sets out in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. In the first amendment to Article. 1 the draft law amending the applicant proposes to delete point 1. Amendments 2 and 3 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments from 1 to 3 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. 191 - for, against - 230, 3 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 4th amendment to the article. 1 the draft law amending the applicant proposes to delete point 5. Amendments 5 and 6 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments from 4 to 6 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. 178 - for, against - 236, 3 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. But first, the question. Mr Szymon Ziółkowski, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. One minute, sir. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u188	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! This bill is a good project, but unfortunately the amendments that were tabled during the committee's work go beyond the submission of the Minister of Sport. This law concerns me directly because I am the beneficiary of these changes. We are talking about the situation here, that players who, due to the positive results of the doping tests, their rivals receive after years other medals than those in the original, from the Minister of Sport will be able to receive compensation in connection with the crime committed by their rivals. But we should not make up for what happened to our athletes in their lives in any way that they have to implement in an illegal manner. I think we can do it as much as we can. It's already in the new Seym. It'll really take a minute. It's about getting that bill back. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And she was being treated in a normal way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u189	Thank you, sir. That wasn't a question. So we're voting on the whole bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 3691 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 273 - for, 147 - against, 5 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Sports Act. We would like to return to the discussion of item 23 of the agenda: Report from the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Act. The additional committee report shall be in print No 3785-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Piotr Uściński to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u190	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Act, print No. 3785-A. Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday, the Public Finance Commission looked into it. All the amendments that have been tabled are proposed to be accepted. That's what I'm asking of the High Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u191	Thank you, Mr Uściński. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft law contained in the report in print No 3785. At the same time, the Commission is presenting amendments on which we will vote first. In the first amendment to Article. The 57th Law of the amended applicant proposes that paragraph be added. 3. Amendment 4 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 1 and 4 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. 402 was for, 1 against, 10 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the second amendment to the article. 129 of the amended law propose that a new wording be given to the applicant. 1a. Amendment 3 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 2 and 3 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 407 Members voted. 398 was in favour, no one was against, no one was in favour, no one was in favour of 9. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 3785, along with the amendments adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 395 Members voted. 389 - for, no one was against, held back 6. The Sejm passed a law amending the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Act. We return to the examination of item 24 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the government draft law amending the Act on Public Offering and the Conditions of Introduction of Financial Instruments to Organized Trading and on Public Companies and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 3816-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Jan Szewczak to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u192	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! After 500 meetings of the Committee on Public Finance in this term of office, we have reached the end. The last issue was the implementation of the EU Directive, the draft law amending the Act on Public Offering. After a concerted work, extremely agreeable, I propose that this bill be passed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u193	Thank you, sir. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 3816. The Commission sets out in an additional report an amendment on which the Sejm will vote first. In the only amendment to the article. The 91th Act on Public Offering and Conditions of Introduction of Financial Instruments to Organized Trading and on Public Companies, the applicants propose a new wording of paragraph 1. 6. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 409 was for, 2 against, 12 stopped. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print 3816, along with the amendment adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 406 Members voted. 399 - for, against - no one, 7 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on Public Offering and the Conditions for Introducing Financial Instruments to Organized Trading and Public Companies and Certain Other Acts. We are returning to the examination of item 27 of the agenda: the Extraordinary Commission's report on the Government's draft law amending the Penal Code Act. The additional committee report shall be in print No 3801-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u194	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present an additional report from the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications of the Government's draft amendment to the Penal Code, print No 3665. The Commission also examined three amendments at its meeting on 15 October this year. The Commission supports these amendments. They must be voted on together. The Commission also requests the adoption of a law by the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u195	Thank you, sir. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act 3801. The Commission sets out in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. In the 1st amendment, the applicants propose the title of the law to give the wording of the amendment to the Penal Code Act and the Civil Procedure Code Act. Amendments 2 and 3 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments from 1 to 3 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. 423 was in favour, no one was against, no one held back 1. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 3801, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. 409 was for, no one was against, 2 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Penal Code Act and the Code of Civil Procedure Act. We are returning to the examination of item 30 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on a governmental bill amending the Act on the Polish Academy of Sciences and some other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission proposes the adoption of a draft Print Act No 3667 without amendments. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no.367, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. 417 was for, no one was against, 3 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on the Polish Academy of Sciences and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 31 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth, the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Senate draft law amending the Law on Education Law. The additional committee report shall be in print No 3776-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mrs Joanna Borowiak to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u196	Dear Marshal! High Seym! I present the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth, the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy and the Committee on Local Government and Regional Policy, contained in print No 3776-A, on the Senate draft law amending the Law on Education, print No 3721. Amendments were tabled during the second reading of the project. The joint committees at their meeting on 15 October considered the amendments, recommended their adoption and asked the High Sejm to adopt the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u197	Thank you, Member. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no.3776. The committees present in the additional report amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. In the first amendment to Article. 92 The national cybersecurity law of the applicant proposes a different wording of paragraph. 1. Amendment 5 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The committees are filing for their admission. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 1 and 5 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. 406 was in favor of, against - 4, holding off on 4. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the second amendment to the Law amending the Law on Education Law, the Law on the Education System and some other laws, the applicant proposes to add an article. 101a. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. 397 was for, nine against, five stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 3rd Amendment to the Law amending the Law on Education Law, the Law on the Education System and some other laws, the applicant proposes to add an article. 132a. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. 404 was for, 4 against, 4 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 1 Act amending the Education Law Act and the Law on the financing of educational tasks applicants propose a different wording of point 5. Amendment 6 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The committees are filing for their admission. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 4 and 6, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. 406 was for, 4 against, 6 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no.3776, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 409 Members voted. 401 was for, no one was against, 8 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Education Law Act and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 33 of the agenda: Report from the Health Commission on the Government draft law amending the Law on obtaining the title of specialist in the areas applicable to health care. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 3719. The question was raised by Mrs Alicia Chybick. You're welcome, my fellow Member. One minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u198	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The question I'm going to ask is a little rhetorical. Why a law has been introduced that will lead to short-track training of professionals, which will undoubtedly affect the quality of this education in often unaccredited centres, where it will be classified on the basis of either the scientific acquis or the so-called. What's your work record? And why the rhetorical question? Because in this disaster, which is in health care and, above all, in child psychiatry, where children are lying on the floor and where psychological care, psychotherapy is really at the lowest possible level, this law - even though we are probably going to let more uneducated professionals on the market - is needed at the moment. Therefore, the Civic Platform - Coalition Club will vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u199	Thank you, Member. Although this was a rhetorical question, Minister Ratchurek-Żelazko is ready to answer. Please, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u200	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This law is part of a series of actions that the current government is taking to improve the situation with regard to health professionals. E.g. This law gives us the opportunity to acquire specialization not only for doctors and nurses, but also for representatives of other professions who will be able to pursue psychotherapy of children and young people. It extends the possibility of entering the system of other medical professions with higher medical education. And one more thing: specialization training will run accredited centers, not like the professor said. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u201	Thank you, Minister. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 3719 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 423 was for, 2 against, 3 stopped. The Sejm has passed a law amending the Law on obtaining the title of specialist in the areas applicable to health care. We return to the consideration of item 34 of the agenda: First reading of the civil draft law amending the Law of 6 June 1997. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. And here are the questions. Please, the first question is that of Mr Robert Winnicki, the Confederation. You're welcome, sir. Time-- one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u202	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The question to applicants, the citizens' initiative. Why are the current rules insufficient to protect children and young people? And the question also to the government: How did it happen that the government, supposedly conservative, for four years could not pass a bill, to issue a regulation that would block the initiatives that would enter into it? In a few days, October 25th, another edition of rainbow Fridays in schools. Yeah, in public schools. Every rainbow Friday, which will take place in any Polish school, is the personal responsibility of Mrs Zalewska, Mr Piontkowski, Mr Kaczyński, Mr Morawiecki. It is you who are responsible for the fact that rainbow plague is expanding in Poland especially during your governments. [[Applause]] [[Say thank you to the Platform.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u203	Thank you, sir. You're welcome... [[Game in the O.R.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm. I would like to ask Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus a question. Just a minute, too. Member, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u204	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The question is: Why do you introduce such legislative rubble, ideological rubble? Why do you deliberately mislead people by aligning sexual education with pedophilia? Why do you want to make sure that the children don't find out what a bad touch is, what sex crimes are? Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take this opportunity to say to Mr Kaczyński... [[I'd like you to turn to...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u205	Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u206	...as the mother of three children...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u207	Member, please come to me for a moment. [[The Marshal disables the microphone]] [[Voice from the room: The questions are.]] [[The voice from the room: No, come on...]] [[Your marshal, he's gonna trick you anyway.]] [[Voice from the room: Liar.]] [[It's a commercial.]] [[Voice from the hall: She's gonna be doing advertising on her last day.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u208	I've already asked the applicant why you're presenting such a mess. I would like to conclude by saying that there is one position that should be in all schools long ago. This is the position that every child should have in his hands, from which he should learn. Your marshal, as the mother of three children, I would like to say, stay away from our children. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[How's Ryśek?]] [[Voice from the room: Aaaa...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u209	Thank you, Member. Please, the question Mr Krzysztof Paszyk wants to ask. However, I appeal to all of you for a parliamentary language. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] One minute, sir, to ask the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u210	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The ideaers of this civil project rightly want to protect children from pedophilia, to protect children and young people from pornography, from any pathology that threatens children today, but at the same time exclude the basic tool of this protection, which is education. And that's the basic reservation that comes after reading this project. I would like to ask such a question to many, I think, in this room doubting the meaning of this project, why do you exclude the best tool for combating pedophilia among children... [[Fighting pedophilia, yes, sir.]] ...against pornography, which is to raise awareness and promote education in this area. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u211	Thank you, sir. Ms Monika Wielichowska was the last person to be asked the question. You're welcome, my fellow Member. One minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u212	High Izbo! I want to talk to the young people from this place. Dear young people, this project is about you. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u213	Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u214	Not about us, not the president... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u215	Member, please come to me. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: What is it?]] [[Voice from the courtroom: No, Marshal.]] [[Your marshal, uncensored.]] [[Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: No, Marshal, you cannot censor Members' statements. Please follow the rules of procedure.]] [[Marshal turns on the microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u216	Censor, ladies and gentlemen. [[Voice from the room: Censor.]] [[Voice from the room: What a censorship. Declarations.]] High Izbo! This is a project that has nothing to do with preventing pedophilia. The applicants want to punish prison for leading a reliable science-based education and returning to the Middle Ages. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] [[Scandal.]] They've already tried to do it with women. Women and black protest... [[Voice from the room: Reliable digging...]] ...shows where there's room for such ideas and such a project. The young people will do exactly the same. Because, as I said at the outset, this is not a project that concerns me, Marshal Kidawa-Błońska, President Kaczyński... [[You're screaming, you're screaming.]] ...only applies to you, expensive high school girls and dear high school students. [[Voice from the room: Question.]] It's about your freedom, your life, and your access to education that's this project. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u217	Member, you tricked me. [[Bravo.]] And you were right. [[Applause]] You were supposed to ask a question, and you didn't. You're being dishonest. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[Voice from the room: Liar.]] Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Goodbye.]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: These are political debts to the Church.]] I understand, ladies and gentlemen... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Political debts towards the Church are paid.]] [[Voices from the room: Liar. Liar.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is an appeal for all of you. This is our last meeting in this group. Let's stay calm until the end, really little time left. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: No censorship.]] Would you like to speak? You're welcome. And I'm just asking you to answer the questions. [[You're acting like a marshal like Kuchciński.]] Please, Mr Olgierd Pankiewicz, representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee. Your representative will answer the questions that have been asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u218	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo! I would like to answer your questions. First of all, I don't answer on my behalf, I don't answer on behalf of some narrow group that created this project, I just answer on behalf of the citizens who supported it. [[Voice from the room: How many?]] Over 265,000. citizens supported this project, much more related to family environments supports the protection of children. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: What does it mean: family? We all have families.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in a few questions asked from this side of the room, there was a false assumption that this project prohibited education. The question is, why do we ban education? This question can only be answered in such a way that the project does not concern the prohibition of education at all. Education is the transfer of knowledge, while the project concerns the promotion and approval of socially dangerous behaviour of minors. The questions asked before reading this project are misleading. Please state why it is necessary to extend the existing Article. 200b of the Penal Code? First of all, it is because criminals have found a new way to soften our children and soften the environments that protect children from sexual violence since this regulation has been adopted. This new way is no longer to promote pedophilia directly, as it was a few years ago when there was a positive pedophilia. Now, there's talk of children's sexual rights... [[What are you saying?]] ...and the sexual nature of a child's relationship with another man, including a grown man. There's been a lot of talk about the sex of minors lately. [[Voice from the room: What is it anyway?]] First of all, in pop culture, which reduces the age limits of children presented in a sexual context. The limit of the age of depictions of children even rubbing themselves against pornography and using children to make sexual content presentable is also reduced. In the sex magazines available from the shelf, children are increasingly found in the sexual context. It has been said at least since 2010 that children have been sexualized as a very serious threat to the development of generations. [[Voice from the room: Lying.]] Sexualisation of children is their acquisition of qualities that make them think of themselves as sexual objects. A child who thinks of himself as a sex object and tries to be sexy is the perfect victim for every criminal. The law, finding a gap in criminal law, introduces the necessary amendment, necessary to complete this gap. In addition to promoting content that affects adults, there are also content that affects minors, first of all, that encourages them to develop sexual relations prematurely, before maturity. Secondly, the same sexual messages of children affect adults. As Professor Lew Starowicz mentioned recently in his interview with the Medical Newspaper, they can be a trigger for triggering behavior that poses a risk to children. Children must be protected from such a message that violates cultural standards. The aim of the Act is to make it as difficult as possible for criminals to have access to children and to protect them from the dangers of contacting content that is violent for them, which harms their psyche and can disrupt their development. If they are to conduct public statements that approve and encourage minors to have sex, the statutory obligation of education should be abolished until they are 18 years of age. It is obvious, it is a common knowledge, popular already now, taken from the developmental psychology... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: What are you saying?]] ...that children who are prematurely starting to engage in sex lose their ability to fully develop in all spheres. Life energy is being drained and development is blocked. [[Voice from the room: Better like knowledge from the Internet.]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: They must know what it is...]] That is why I am wondering what statements the opponents of this project are demanding. The right to preach what views are publicly demanded by the opponents of this project? Is the right to promote images... [[Was there a question about that?]] [[It wasn't.]] ...which depict children as sexual objects? Do you have the right to say irresponsible things to your children: make sexual relations whenever you feel like it? [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: We are talking about sexual education, neutral worldview.]] Or is it the right to encourage children to negotiate sexual relations with adults? [[We want to protect the children, sir.]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Before pedophilia!]] [[Voice from the room: From the wrong touch.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please do not interfere with answering the questions that have been asked. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: But you are talking about...]] [[Voice from the room: But this question has not been asked.]] What are the consequences...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u219	Excuse me a moment. Ladies and gentlemen, there was a time to ask questions, and I didn't limit it. Any one of you could have... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: And you censored them.]] ...anyone of you could join the task of asking a question. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: And you censored them.]] [[One question for the club.]] There was an opportunity to ask a question. At the moment, please allow me to finish the applicant. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u220	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen... [[It's a dark place.]] [[But you've adopted the system you've ruled.]] ...the word "darkness" falls, the word "medieval" falls. I'd like to draw your attention. Only that, in the name of progress, all falsehood and violence can be justified. Like it's been done before. That's not an argument. Children are children and are different from adults. This knowledge is so obvious that it should not be further justified. What happens when children are spoken of in a sexual context? The negative effects in the child's psyche are primarily that the fixation on the subject of sex, which is... [[And what institution protects pedophilia?]] ...introduced earlier than development allows, prevents development. About people who are potential predators. It's a show like this that lets you out of the shadows... [[A. Did Jankowski know that?]] ...people who would otherwise be outside the margin of socially acceptable behaviour. They'd be in the shadows. Those who commit crimes against children are only in a small percentage - according to the findings quoted earlier Prof. Lwa Starowicz represent about 10% - fictitious pedophiles, i.e. those who have a permanent sexual tendency towards minors. The rest are people who commit these crimes casually. [[The voice from the room: But we know it.]] These people may have either an easy way to commit crimes or a hard way to do it. The logic of the Penal Code, which is already in force, requires a consistent sealing of the border, which was not sufficiently tightly established in 2009. As far as predators themselves are concerned, who have a permanent tendency to commit sexual crimes against children... Sexual acts or children in a sexual context are an incentive for them to commit illegal acts. Pop culture, which is developing at a dangerous pace, as you have pointed out, ladies and gentlemen, towards crossing borders, towards pornographicisation of the increasingly wider spheres of social life, is increasingly using children as objects. Cultural boundaries are shifted if no one stands firm on their watch. This culture is not for adults to live comfortably in their worldview. The culture protecting children is so that they do not fall victim to crime. Finally, the result of the statements that depict children in a sexual context is that the environment surrounding the child itself, which is a natural protective barrier for the child, is softened and does not respond adequately to the risks. This project does not specifically stigmatize any of the environments. We are talking about common crimes that can be committed by those who commit acts against the sexual safety of children, against the sexual freedom of children, or against public morality, depending on how the subject of this project should be defined. I strongly encourage you to read it, to read it, because this disinformation, which has also been repeated today in this Chamber, that it is aimed against education unfortunately is very harmful. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: But are you in favour of sexual education?]] It shows that the level of concern for the public good, the level of concern for how future generations will develop, is unfortunately unsatisfactory. I ask that you use common sense and, if necessary, read this law with understanding, use expert advice to help you read it with understanding. [[Don't bother.]] [[Voice from the hall: But does he offend us?]] Next, I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to lean on these regulations without prejudice, with concern for the welfare of children. We want the kids to walk safely on the street so they can go to school safely. We want sexual predators who have children to keep an eye on, to the maximum extent, to have access to them. That is why we confirm the standard which is both in the Penal Code and wider in our culture and in the Constitution, i.e. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 72 about protecting children from demoralization. That is why we confirm this standard with the seal of the Penal Code. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u221	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law contained in print 3751, would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 406 Members voted. 150 was in favor, 243 against, holding 13. The Sejm's motion is denied. On the basis of the article. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I am directing the bill to the Extraordinary Commission for amendments to the codifications for consideration. Three formal requests were received. The first Mr Boris Budka with a formal proposal. You're welcome, sir. Time for formal application - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u222	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I made this motion before this vote. It is a request that the session be adjourned by noon. 20, because the High House has been misinformed in a rude way. [[Voice from the room: What?]] This project doesn't talk about children. This project talks about minors and minors under the Civil Code are under 18 years of age. [[Voice from the room: This is also a child.]] In the Penal Code, on the other hand, sexualisation is less than 15 years old. You have not just rejected another legal bubble by giving faith to all these words and not reading this project. [[This is a civic project.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Once again, you have compromised the High House by accepting solutions from the Middle Ages. Think about what you're voting on, because this is a disgrace. Chambers at the end of this term. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[But that was the first reading of a civil project.]] [[Voice from the room: You're embarrassing yourselves.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u223	Thank you, sir. I understand that this proposal is no longer valid. [[Voice from the hall: Teach this building of history.]] [[Voice from the room: There are committees.]] It wasn't filed in writing. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Reported, only you did not accept.]] Are there formal proposals by Mr Michael Honourable and Mr Sławomir Nitras on the same matter or on another matter? There you go, Mr Szczerba. [[It's not justified.]] Time - 1 minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u224	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I submitted a proposal before the vote on the rejection of the citizens' project. It was also a request for a break. I would like to say very clearly, Mrs Marshal, that the legitimacy of this term of office, the 8th term of office, ended on Sunday. This Sejm has no right to decide about new matters which were the subject of the elections of Poles. [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] [[Do you know this is a civic project?]] Last Sunday, Poles created a new map of needs, a new map of political sensitivity. A lot of representatives aren't in this room right now. These people are, for example. under the Seym, protesting and fighting for their rights. You've entered this point in a completely unauthorized manner. [[Applause]] You've introduced a project that prohibits sexual education in schools. This is the fall of the Middle Ages, Marshal. [[To get Peterovich to vote.]] You don't want to fight pedophilia, you don't want to fight other things, [[♪ The bell ♪]] You don't want to care... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u225	Thank you, sir. For the sake of clarification, sir, this was not an unexpected introduction. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: You had no right to call this Sejm.]] The Sejm and Senior Convention Bureau were informed of this. It was before the election campaign. This is nothing new, sir, so please do not mislead that the Marshal of the Sejm has introduced something that you did not know about, because it is not true. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Legal crows will not replace that you had no right. This is a scandal, ruining parliamentary customs.]] Thank you, sir. [[Voice from the room: It was on the agenda.]] It was on the agenda, of course. Are you also referring to a break, Mr President, or to another matter? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u226	Mrs. Marshal! High... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u227	Excuse me, one second. [[Is censorship now?]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u228	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We're talking about a serious debate, an important matter. Indeed, this conclusion came at the last minute. [[Voice from the room: Don't lie.]] We're after the election. There is Monika Wielichowska, who wanted to raise the question that we are talking about young people. You interrupted her. Mrs Wielichowska is a verified Member and has won tens of thousands of votes. She was going to say that you don't let young people educate you about sexuality. [[But the debate has already been about it. It's just a vote.]] It ended with you wanting to educate a Member who got tens of thousands of votes. [[Applause]] One politician says not to mention the name that the Senate will now be a co-operation chamber. We got eight million votes, we have the right to speak. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[You?]] [[Voice from the room: We got it.]] Don't train us like animals. May the Seym also be a place of cooperation. We have our dignity. The Poles chose us, we represent them here. Please don't treat us like children. We're not allowed to speak. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u229	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u230	Let one thing change in the Seym. Don't take the minute they have. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Your Marshal...]] Mr President, 8 million has been won by us. It's a little bit of a mistake. [[Applause]] We return to item 35 of the agenda... [[What about the Senate?]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: More votes were cast on coalition and opposition parties than on you. Those are the facts.]] We are returning to the examination of item 35 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the Prevention of Pollution from Ships and the Law on Maritime Safety. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 3737. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 3737 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 423 - for, against - no one, 2 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on the Prevention of Pollution from Ships and the Law on Maritime Safety. We are returning to the review of item 54 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 3834. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 3834 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 415 - for, 6 - against, 2 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Road Traffic Law Act. We return to the examination of item 32 of the agenda: Report from the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law on the settlement of double taxation disputes and the conclusion of prior price agreements. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 3837. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 3837 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 422 - for, 2 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm has passed a law on the settlement of double taxation disputes and the conclusion of prior price agreements. We would like to return to the discussion of item 37 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Parliamentary draft law amending the excise duty Act. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 3839. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 3839 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 420 for, 1 against, 4 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the excise tax law. We are returning to the consideration of item 44 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on the ratification of the International Convention on Control and Treatment with Boat Ballast Waters and settlements, 2004, drawn up on 13 February 2004 in London. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 3717. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 3717 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? The vote was 428. 426 Members were in favour, no one opposed, with two abstentions. The Sejm adopted the Act on the ratification of the International Convention on Control and Treatment with static ballast waters and sediments, 2004, drawn up on 13 February 2004 in London. We are returning to the examination of item 45 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft Act on the ratification of the Protocol amending the Convention on the Protection of Persons with regard to the Automatic Processing of Personal Data, drawn up in Strasbourg on 10 October 2018. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 3696. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no.366, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 423 for, 1 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm adopted the Act on the ratification of the Protocol amending the Convention on the Protection of Persons with regard to the Automatic Processing of Personal Data, drawn up in Strasbourg on 10 October 2018. We would like to refer to item 46 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Navigation, the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft Law on the ratification of Convention 188 on Work in the Fisheries Sector, adopted by the General Conference of the International Labour Organisation in Geneva on 14 June 2007. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no 3749. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no.3749 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 426 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm adopted the Act on the ratification of Convention 188 on Labour in the Fisheries Sector, adopted by the General Conference of the International Labour Organisation in Geneva on 14 June 2007. We would like to refer to point 47 of the agenda: the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement establishing the International Agricultural Development Fund, drawn up in Rome on 13 June 1976. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of the draft law from print no. 3814. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 3814 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 421 - for, no one against, 2 stopped. The Sejm adopted the Act on the ratification of the Agreement establishing the International Agricultural Development Fund, drawn up at Rome on 13 June 1976. We are returning to the examination of item 48 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution on establishing the year 2020 - the year of Poland's marriage to the sea in Puck. The Commission proposes that the draft resolution be adopted in print no 3703. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no. 3703, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 414 - for, 11 - against, no one held back. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the establishment of the year 2020 by the Year of Polish Wedding with the Sea in Puck. We would like to refer to item 49 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on condemning all acts of hatred and anti-Catholic contempt. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 3704. The question is asked by Mr Wojciech Król, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u231	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Platform Club - the Civic Coalition opposes all acts of hatred, including against Catholics. That is why we cannot take part in this vote. If we were to take part in this vote, it would mean that other forms of hatred by the High House are acceptable. The resolution of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland cannot divide Poles, it cannot indicate which group can be insulted and which group cannot be insulted. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The church in Poland is not persecuted. The only threat I see for the Church is in you, in politicians who use the Church instrumentally. [[Applause]] That is why I am appealing from this point of view for a change of content, [[♪ The bell ♪]] to object to any acts of hatred. Otherwise...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u232	Thank you, sir. Mr President, thank you very much, time has passed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u233	...we will not be able to take part in this vote. There is no permission to share Poles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u234	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no.3704, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 299 Members voted. For - 282, against - 8, 9 stopped. The Sejm adopted a resolution on condemning all acts of hatred and anti-Catholic contempt. We would like to return to the discussion of item 50 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution on the establishment of 2019 in the Year of Barbara Skargi. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 3560. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print No. 3560 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 407 Members voted. 400 was in favor, 2 against, with five abstentions. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the commemoration of Professor Barbara Skarga on the 100th anniversary of her birth. We are returning to the examination of item 40 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Industrial Property Law. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 3838. The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u235	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At first, I wanted to assure you that I would not use Mr Kaczyński's words. On the other hand, I didn't know it was such an insulting phrase. But I'm not gonna use it. I would like to say that at the committee meeting this law raised a lot of controversy and provoked a lot of comments which were not taken into account during the consultation. Some of the representatives of the Boards of Attorneys, patent attorneys, have not been taken into account. As so many comments were negative, the Civic Platform Club - the Civic Coalition will abstain from voting on the project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u236	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 3838 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 279 - for, 1 - against, 142 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Industrial Property Law. We return to the examination of item 28 of the agenda: Information for the Polish Sejm and Senate on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period January-June 2019 (the presidency of Romania in the Council of the European Union) with a committee draft resolution. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 3699. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no.3699 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. 266 - for, against - 151, 4 abstained. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union between January and June 2019 (the presidency of Romania in the Council of the European Union). We proceed with the examination of item 53 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Environmental Law and certain other laws (prints 3827 and 3836). I ask Mrs Barbara Dziuk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u237	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At the meeting of the Joint Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on 14 October 2019 we considered three amendments tabled by the Senate. These are technical amendments and committees asking for their adoption. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u238	Thank you, Member. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. In the first amendment to Article. Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Construction Law The Senate proposes to add point 10. The committees are asking for her party. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. Six-for-one, against-413, three stopped. In the absence of an absolute majority, the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment, after the article. The 9th Law amending the Senate proposes to add an article. 9a containing transitional provisions. The committees are asking for her party. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. One was in favor, 416 against, holding off on two. In the absence of an absolute majority, the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. The 11th Law amending the Senate proposes to extend the period of vacathio legis. The committees are asking for her party. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. 3 was in favor, against - 417, 4 stopped. In the absence of an absolute majority, the Sejm accepted the amendment. [[May I?]] At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Environmental Law and some other laws. Ladies and gentlemen, I am declaring a 5-minute break. Since we will never see each other in this composition again, I would like to thank you all very much. I'll see you at least some. [[The gathered get up, give a round of applause]] [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 min. 37 until 3 p.m. 18 min 46]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 51 of the agenda: Information on the activities of the Supreme Court in 2018 and Information on the activities of the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court in 2018 (Print No 3700) together with the position of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights (Print No 3831). I would like to ask the President of the Supreme Court in charge of Mr Dariusz Zawistowski's Civil Chamber to present the information. Mr. President, I'd like to invite you. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the O.R.: But we're gonna ask you to move the calls out of the O.R.]] What happened? I can't hear that ear... [[Voice from the room: Maybe outside the room...]] Ladies and gentlemen! We've started processing the next point. I'd really like to ask you to move the conversations to the cockroaches. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman. [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr. President! I apologize for some disunity among Members regarding the end of the term of office. If you could just get started, I think they're gonna be...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u239	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! By submitting a report on the activities of the Supreme Court in 2018 on behalf of the first President of the Supreme Court, I would like to remind you that this report was adopted by the General Assembly of Supreme Court Judges and transmitted inter alia. to the Marshal of the Sejm and that it includes detailed information primarily about the judicial activity of the Supreme Court. For this reason, it is quite typical, but it seems to me that it requires particular emphasis that, from the point of view of the Supreme Court's activities, the year 2018 was of a special nature, because the new Law on the Supreme Court came into force, which changed the organisational structure of the Supreme Court. It should be recalled that the Military Chamber has been wound up and two new chambers have been set up: the Extraordinary and Public Affairs Chamber and the Disciplinary Chamber. The establishment of the Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs involved the introduction into the system of legal measures of the new institution in the form of so-called. an emergency complaint. This change in the structure of the Supreme Court has, at the same time, resulted in certain effects on the jurisdiction of the existing Supreme Court Chambers, notably the Chamber of Labour, Social Insurance and Public Affairs and the Supreme Court Criminal Chamber. But these organizational changes didn't cause this...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u240	Mr President, I am sorry to interrupt one last time and, at the same time, I will ask you Members who are not interested in this point to leave the room and have a chat in the cockroaches, okay? [[Aye, aye, Marshal.]] I'm very grateful to you. Thank you. Let's end this term with class and respect for the president. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman, to proceed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u241	Thank you very much. However, organisational changes were not a major problem in the functioning of the Supreme Court in 2018. These problems were mainly linked to the staff situation caused by legislative changes which provided for a forced transition to the resting state of many Supreme Court judges. In total, this concerned around 40% of the Supreme Court. These changes, of course, have had a negative impact on the efficiency of the proceedings in all chambers of the Supreme Court, and I will say this more precisely in a moment. Inconclusively, these changes affected the various chambers, the Civil Chamber, from which 12 judges had to leave, were 6 judges in the Penalty Chamber and 4 judges in the Chamber of Labour and Social Insurance, i.e. 21 judges in total. It must be stressed that this concerned the functionaries of the Supreme Court and, above all, the first President of the Supreme Court, despite the very serious reservations which had already been raised at the stage of the draft law. It should be recalled that the President of the Supreme Court has a constitutionally guaranteed 6-year term and these provisions have violated this provision of the Constitution. Two presidents in charge of the Chambers of Penalty and the Chamber of Labour and Social Insurance also had to retire. As I said, this situation has had a negative impact on the functioning of the Supreme Court. In addition, serious doubts concerned the status of newly appointed judges. They were primarily based on the order of the Supreme Administrative Court of 25 September 2018. This provision was issued in the course of proceedings relating to appeals against the resolutions of the National Judicial Council. These doubts have not been clarified to this day, and you can say that they have even been increased. In 2018, the Supreme Court referred six times to the Court of Justice of the European Union with questions which were addressed under Article. 267 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and concerned these fundamental issues relating to the functioning of the Supreme Court. This difficult staffing situation in the Supreme Court was only clarified as a result of a ruling of the Court of Justice of the European Union on 19 October 2018 and 17 December 2018. This led to legislative work being taken and an amendment to the Supreme Court Act. That amendment entered into force on 1 January 2019. I would also like to stress that as a result of the ruling of the Court of Justice of the European Union and on the basis of the provisions of this law, 21 judges have finally returned to ruling in the Supreme Court, i.e. all those who have been forced to retire. This happened, as I said before, at the end of the year and therefore it was not possible to make up for the arrears that arose throughout the year. As regards the impact of the cases to the Supreme Court, in 2018 it was slightly larger than in previous years. In total, 11 484 cases were brought to the Supreme Court and in 2017 there were 10 738 cases. As usual, there were more than 8,000 cassation complaints and cancellations. Such cases, of which more than 3300 have been brought to the Civil Chamber of the Supreme Court, 2064 - to the Chamber of Labour and Social Insurance and 2717 - to the Criminal Chamber, were the biggest increase in the impact of cases, as a total of 2163 cases were brought in 2017. On the other hand, two emergency complaints were brought into the Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs. A large group of cases were complaints, a total of almost 1 000. complaints, exactly 995. What is also important, more than 140 legal issues similar to that in 2017 were presented to the Supreme Court. These were 152 issues. Other cases include: actions for finding unlawful a final decision on competition and consumer protection, actions for the duration of proceedings, actions for reopening proceedings and disciplinary matters. Compared to 2017, results are much less favourable in terms of the number of cases dealt with, which should be highlighted in particular. While almost 400 cases were identified in 2017, more than received by the Supreme Court during the year, this trend was reversed in 2018 and more than 2 000 cases were identified. cases less than the number of cases brought before the Supreme Court. In total, 9460 cases were identified in 2018 and 11 135 cases were identified in 2017, including more than 6000 cassation and cassation complaints, and 7914 cassation and cassation complaints in 2017. 138 judgments were also issued on legal issues, also less than in 2017, as it was 147 such decisions. At the same time, there has been an increase in arrears in the recognition of cases. At the end of 2018, cases of 6583 remained unrecognized, i.e. a drastic increase compared to 2017, when they were 4551 cases. Unfortunately, this translates into very concrete effects in the form of extending the waiting time to recognize the cassation complaint. For example, here I would like to refer to the situation in the Civil Chamber, which is better known to me at the moment, and I would say that in 2016, 2017, when the Supreme Court functioned normally, the situation seemed to be that it was expected to be about 0.5 years in the pre-trial stage of the action, and then 2 and 3 months later to recognise the substance of the complaint. In each department, the number of pending cases was between 20 and 30 cases, which allowed these cases to be identified within a period of approximately 2 months. As an example of a change in this situation, I will point out Section I in the Civil Chamber, where there are now more than 200 cases to be examined, i.e. 10 times more, which means a considerable extension of the waiting time for a case to be discovered. I would also like to stress here that these poor performances are in no way linked to a change in the burden on individual judges. Cases are set to the same extent as before and there is no change here. But with the staff situation that was in the Supreme Court, there was no way to control the influence of matters. Moreover, the method of setting meetings is that cases are set up several months in advance, and in such a situation, when the status of a large number of Supreme Court judges was not certain, it was difficult to take such action. A constant concern of the Supreme Court is the pursuit of consistency in the case law of the general courts and the removal of differences in interpretation of the law. Thus, as in previous years, the resolution of the Supreme Court was very important. As I said, some 140 legal issues have been resolved. These issues have been addressed by issues which have been addressed in the light of, above all, the poor state of legislation. Knowing that time is running and there is not much left, I am trying to shorten this speech to the full, so I may limit myself properly to indicating that the example of such legislation, which has recently raised a number of doubts, were above all the provisions of the Act of 22 November 2013 on the treatment of persons with mental disorders which pose a risk to the life, health or sexual freedom of other persons, the provisions concerning the status of judicial assessor and the provisions concerning restrictions on the marketing of agricultural property, which were introduced by the Act of 14 April 2016 on the suspension of the sale of property of the Agricultural Treasury and on the amendment of certain laws and the Act of 11 April 2003 on the formation of the agricultural system. As regards these problems which involve interpretation of the law, they are largely related to the legislative process. Currently, the state of private law in Poland is characterized by some overregulation and excessive casuistics. They multiply and form legal acts, including amending acts, which are not properly synchronised with the existing legal status, and sometimes even with those which the law amends. Laws and novelties to laws are often ad hoc, and the legislator introduces them without sufficient reflection and without the necessary consultation. One of the weakest points of legislation is still a very low level of inter-temporary legislation, and often a lack of rules, which is causing great normative confusion. This also applies to those provisions concerning the Supreme Court Act, including the term of office of the Supreme Court Presidents. The report identifies a number of decisions which are of major importance for the protection of citizens' rights in particular. A number of such decisions took the form of resolutions issued by the enlarged Supreme Court. These are detailed in the report and I think they are worth the attention. Because I have a second, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'll stop there. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u242	Thank you, Mr. President. I ask Mr Mark Ast to present his position to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u243	Mr. Marshal! Mr. President! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I have the honour to present the committee's report on the activities of the Supreme Court in 2018 and on the activities of the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court in 2018, prints 3831 and 3700. After consulting the Sejm Bureau, the Marshal sent the above information to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on 24 July 2019. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights took note of the aforementioned. information and held a broad discussion at its meeting on 16 October 2019, in the sense that each of the Members could speak, ask questions. The President answered the substantive questions. Perhaps it was difficult to respond to political speeches. Of course, after this discussion, the chairman of the committee stated that the committee with information on the activities of the Supreme Court and the Disciplinary Chamber had become familiar with it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u244	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marek Ast, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u245	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the activities of the Supreme Court in 2018 and on the activities of the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court in 2018, prints 3831 and 3700. It is appropriate to agree with the thesis - which by Mrs Małgorzata Gersdorf was presented in the information - that the activity of the Supreme Court in 2018 was clearly determined by the entry into force of the Supreme Court Act, followed by the novelties of this law, which re-regulated the system and status of the Supreme Court. Perhaps those obstacles that have slowed down the work of the Supreme Court, and the reasons for this slowdown, we will have disagreements with the President of the Supreme Court. It is indisputable that the new law has caused certain perturbations as regards the functioning of the Supreme Court, but the impact of the cases to the Supreme Court has in principle been maintained at the current level, as there have been specifically 11 484 cases. The average time to investigate the case was 11 months. The report draws attention to the relatively low level when it comes to the cancellations being made. If it hadn't been for the liberal approach of the Supreme Court, a large part of this cassation would probably have been neglected. It was thanks to such a mild approach that the Supreme Court was able to consider a large part of the cassations that were received. The report raises the criticism of the state of legislation, which, of course, also gives greater consideration to legal issues. We humbly accept this remark. It will certainly be necessary to work on improving the level of legislation. On the other hand, as regards the activities of the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court, we have more or less the same reasons as regards the functioning of this Chamber. This is a new chamber in the Supreme Court. In a natural way, it will probably also take time for her to act smoothly and at the level that we would expect from the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court. It is also a fact that its appointment is somehow contested by part of the judicial community, hence the actions before the Court of Justice of the European Union. We look forward to a resolution and possible further legislative action will depend on this resolution. Of course, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice takes note of the information submitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u246	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Robert Kropiwnicki, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u247	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! Thank you very much for this report, because it is indeed valuable material. But this is also sad material, and even sadder is the fact that we are actually considering the last point of this meeting in an empty room: information about the activity of the Supreme Court in 2018, which was really very difficult for this court. Although the entire term of office, the 8th term of office of the Sejm, began with matters of justice and ends with a matter of justice. And it can be said that this is a bitter summary of this term, what you did with the justice system, what you did with the National Judicial Council, how you destroyed the Constitutional Tribunal, how you tried to destroy the Supreme Court in 2018. And it actually says here. The president clearly writes that all these... The accumulation of difficulties took place in 2017 and 2018, but fortunately the involvement of many people in the Supreme Court allows this court to really work, that many people are looking forward to justice after long years. Thank you for this work to all Supreme Court judges. I would also like to thank you for these legislative opinions - as Mr Ast mentioned - because indeed in recent years the Supreme Court's opinions are actually the last serious, independent opinions addressed to the Sejm and the Senate. [[Applause]] In fact, at a time when there is no longer a National Judicial Council, when many institutions have been deluded, today only the Supreme Court's opinions really have a substantive dimension and it is worth to learn from them and learn from them. I wanted to refer to this Disciplinary Chamber, which I think is unhappy, I have said this many times. Also in this report, in which you - I am speaking to the majority of Parliament - wrote that they attach their information to this... And what they write in this additional information, or actually comment on, and it's negative judgments of the Supreme Court. The President of this Chamber notes that, in connection with the questions referred for a preliminary ruling to the Court of Justice of the European Union by the Supreme Court in the Chamber of Labour and Social Insurance, there has been an obvious picture of the legislation which consisted in registering and taking over these matters by the Chamber of Labour and Social Insurance. It is actually unacceptable that the President of one of the Chambers in his report to the Sejm and the Senate evaluates the questions referred for a preliminary ruling by another Supreme Court and does not really await this judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. It's really humiliating. I also continue to believe that this Chamber fulfils all the criteria of the special court, which is prohibited in the Constitution. The fact that you've mostly called prosecutors there, that there are people who haven't dealt with justice before, all of this is designed to serve as a bat for judges. It's supposed to be a political instrument to force judges to do things that are consistent with the party line. Anyway, that was the case with Judge Chubien. Sentence in this case Although it was already in 2019 but it was a matter under the dictation of the Minister of Justice. He's the one who didn't like the judge's judgment on the matter. It is unacceptable that the judge is punished disciplinaryly for the judgment which he gives on behalf of the Republic of Poland, and this chamber does so. And they're still happy about it, and they're proud of it. This is really a reason to be embarrassed, because it all indicates that this is a special court, which is supposed to be a political whip for judges. I hope someday this chamber will go away and cease to function. Let me point out that the number of emergency complaints you've been talking about here... I'm talking to an empty room, but it's about people from the PiS who said it was such an important instrument, and there are no complaints. Even the Attorney General doesn't really run them, they're individual cases. And you made a fuss, you destroyed the Supreme Court on the pretext that an emergency complaint would be a panacea for the functioning of the justice system. These are really psychic things. Thank you for this information, although it is very bitter material. I recommend it to all those who will be Members of the new term of office of the Sejm, because it is worth getting acquainted with the material that shows the true face of the justice system and how PiS has destroyed the justice system for four years. It didn't quite work out. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But the PiS is really close to destroying this justice system. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. President, for that information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u248	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u249	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland, I would like to present a position on information on the activities of the Supreme Court in 2018 together with the position of the committee bearing the sejm print no. 3700. In 2018, i.e. the year in which we celebrated the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence, in the eyes of society, the third power was subjected to regular attempts to destroy. The parliamentary majority, the government and the President of the Republic decided to exterminate the highest judicial authority in Poland. Under the pretext of supposed decommunization, they wanted to do a staff cleaning at the Supreme Court. In connection with the current Supreme Court Act, the President of the Republic of Poland has been able since April 2018 to issue and amend the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Court in an unfettered manner without the opinion of the College of the Court. This transitional period lasted up to 12 months. For several decades the Supreme Court's rules have been forming its organs, its judges. There was a period in Poland's history when the Minister of Justice, one person, created the Supreme Court rules from the top. That period took place between 1932 and 1962. Two such regulations were issued at that time: one in 1932, the other in 1947. As you can see, the parliamentary majority is stuck between Sanctuary and Stalinism to the pleasure of the President, and I say it with the highest sadness. According to the slogan: the bread and games were constructed by two new chambers: the Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs and the Disciplinar Chamber. A jury chamber of 36 jury members to the Supreme Court was also called to assist the judges. We have witnessed their election by the Senate. In Poland we currently have about 10,000. jurors - in Warsaw alone there are several hundred of them. And to the Supreme Court, 30 posts were initially filled, only 13. Therefore, a complementary choice had to be made. And how did these two new chambers work in 2018? Minister Ziobro boasted so much about the Disciplinar Chamber, which was to be faster and more efficient than one of the Departments of the Criminal Chamber, previously involved in disciplinary matters. In conclusion, the work of this House in 2018 was 145 cases and how many of them were dealt with? Only 28 cases were identified, or 19%. The deadline for 2019 is 117 cases. The next chamber, which in turn proud as the peacock was President Andrzej Duda, is the Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs. In 2018, 293 cases were brought in, 81 of them were identified, i.e. less than 28%. The outstanding amount for 2019 shall be 212 cases. Just congratulate the diligence of the new favorite judges of Law and Justice. The newly appointed chambers of the Supreme Court are the least placed on the case, and at the same time have the largest arrears, measuring this percentage. Looking at the Supreme Court as a whole, it must be acknowledged that despite the impact of cases at a level of almost 12 thousand. In general, it has been possible to maintain a high level of efficiency in the management of the reduced staff. The average time in the Supreme Court is about 11 months, which is a result above average in relation to Polish courts. However, staff shortages in the three oldest chambers thanks to President Duda and his law firm have had a negative impact, but this is the case when he is delaying appointment of a judge up to 2 years after his election by the National Judicial Council, and this is only because the National Court Register in its previous composition was independent and elected in accordance with the Constitution. At the end of our speech, as a club, we would like to thank the first President of the Supreme Court, the Presidents of the Criminal Chamber, the Civil Chamber and the Chamber of Labour and Social Insurance, as well as all the judges of the three oldest chambers of the Supreme Court and the employees of this institution, who, after 100 years of their existence, suffered harassment, threats and insults from the executive and legislative authorities in free Poland. You have shown what it means to be independent, independent and steadfast judges. And as such, go to the history of the Polish judiciary. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u250	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. One person saved - I invite Mrs Krystyna Skowronska. Time, two minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u251	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, First reflection on the deadline for examining the report of the Supreme Court for 2018 - unfortunately after the elections. Or perhaps it would be worth telling Poles how they tried to destroy, how bad rules were made concerning, among others. Supreme Court and Free Courts. It remains for me to thank Mr Paszyk warmly and to say that I admired and admired President Margaret Gersdorf for her steadfast attitude. The fact that we have not bowed down - including us, Members. I would like to thank the Presidents of the Criminal Chamber, the Civil Chamber, the Chamber of Labour and Public Affairs very warmly. You are judges to us as a model for respect for the Constitution. Because free courts are a guarantee to Poles and Poles that the constitution will be respected. I know it was a huge sacrifice. For this sacrifice, I thank you very much for your standing up for justice. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u252	Thank you, Member. Please, the President of the Supreme Court, directing the Civil Chamber, Mr Dariusz Zawistowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u253	Thank you very much, Marshal, for the opportunity to submit this report. I also thank all those who have shown interest, and are present in the Chamber. I think the other parliamentarians will find time to read the report in writing. As I have said before, this report covers more than 200 pages of the text and I think it is worth knowing a part of this matter, because in the Supreme Court there have been many decisions that will be very important. As one example, I would like to point out a resolution that concerns the problem of contracts with consumers. The enlarged Supreme Court said that it is necessary to refer to the conclusion of the agreement from the point of view of the abusibility of the provisions of such an agreement. This resolution will be very important for a large group of franchise, and it is expected that there will be a lot of cases related to the claims of these people against Polish banks. Of course, the ruling of the Court of Justice of the European Union is of fundamental importance, which indicates that a large number of actions must be expected and this will certainly be a challenge for Polish courts. Recently, we met with the judges of the National Court in Koblenz and they said that the German courts would face a great challenge against Volkswagen, that they would expect even tens of thousands of such cases and that they had doubts whether the German courts would be able to deal with these cases. It seems that our colleagues from the national court in Koblenz have no idea at all how many cases affect Polish courts and how large a wave of these cases can be connected with the claims of the franchise. I would like to remind you that more than 15 million cases per year are being brought to the Polish courts and that citizens' expectations regarding the proper functioning of the judiciary can somehow be met within a reasonable period of time, it would be necessary to examine and carry out a thorough reform of the justice system, but a reform that is properly understood, one that will improve the functioning of the courts and not be limited to staff changes. I would like to stress that, as normal as possible, the Supreme Court owes the court primarily to the judges who showed the right attitude to be faithful to their promise. Of course, the relatively good outcome of the Supreme Court also consisted of the work of all persons employed in the Supreme Court. I hope that a high level of case law can also be maintained in the future, although the Supreme Court is awaiting very important changes. In a natural way, many Supreme Court judges will be leaving in the near future. I expect a few judges to leave my home Civil Chamber in the near future, and a few have already left this year. Therefore, it is very important to know who will be called to the Supreme Court, who will take the place of those colleagues who will go to rest. We have a very uncertain perspective on the fate of those cases which are settled by judges where the status is questionable. It can be said that, in the short term, this should in some way be decided by the ruling of the Court of Justice of the European Union. If the decision of the Court of Justice is to a large extent consistent with the position of Advocate General, we will have a very serious problem. I think it would take really good will and good lawyers to try to get out of this difficult situation, which maybe in the near future awaits us. As regards the Disciplinar Chamber referred to here, this situation is particularly questionable. I would also like to point out, because it was not mentioned that we also have a relatively new situation related to the European Commission's proposal, which concerns the functioning of disciplinary justice. This proposal is also accompanied by a request for an accelerated procedure for the recognition of this case and this indicates that this issue is important from the point of view of the EU authorities, and it seems to me that it is really necessary to discuss these issues in substance in order to come out of this difficult situation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u254	Thank you, Mr. President. Please, the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Marek Ast. [[We're a little short right now.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u255	Mr. Marshal! Mr. President! High Izbo! First of all, on behalf of the committee, I would like to thank you for the discussions: and for the one held at the committee meeting and for the one held here in the plenary room. I would like to thank the President for presenting the report also at the committee meeting and in the plenary room, and to express his hope that the conclusions that have been formulated in the information will be taken into account by the Parliament of the future term of office. The legislator will certainly lean over them. [[Make promises of improvement.]] I would also like to express my hope that two new chambers: the Chamber of Public Control and Extraordinary Complaints and the Disciplinary Chamber after this organisational period will also work smoothly. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u256	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed. I state that the Sejm took note of the activity of the Supreme Court in 2018 and the activity of the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court in 2018. On this we have exhausted the agenda of the 86th meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. Please, Mr Robert Majka, not associated, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u257	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is my last speech in this term of office. That is why in advance I wanted to thank my constituents, Poles, for everything, for the help I received during the election campaign, during my speech. I think they were very valuable remarks, and I've always taken them, and I'm going to take them to heart. Ladies and gentlemen! During this term, when I was a Member, I asked myself many questions, among others. The question is who and who will Poland be in the new term. Ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult to say clearly at this point that the new term will favour solutions for strengthening the Polish state. The strong Polish state, in my opinion, is primarily Polish special services, which only care about the interest of the Polish state. Over the past 30 years, there has been a fact that no person who has committed a violation of the law has been brought before the Court of State, has not been brought to justice, has not been held liable. Mr. Mustache's case, for instance. We've been looking into the Supreme Court case. Professor Gersdorf is the first President of the Supreme Court, but under the law of the President of the Court of State. When I was at the State Court, I realized one thing: this case is being swept under the rug. And the last question that has always lied and is on my heart, namely whether freedom of speech is in Poland. There have been elections, everyone thinks that the new House, the Sejm and the Senate has already been chosen, but was it really free elections, or could Poles in the media find out what were the real concepts of politicians who have Poland and the Polish right state in the heart? Unfortunately, no, because there is a preventive censorship in Poland. Art. 54 of the 1997 Constitution and Article. 6 and 10 Press Laws are repeatedly violated. On 19 July 2019 I organized a protest before the Polish Press Agency and before the Polish Television. At the end of the day, I wanted to say such a thing. In my opinion, for Poland to be reborn, there must be Polish special services, dedicated exclusively to the Polish State. Every public person must present in my opinion an administrative decision that he was not a secret collaborator of the PRL military security apparatus, i.e. WSW, as well as a civilian security apparatus of the Security Service. This is my decision, and only such a situation, please, can heal Polish reality. And at the end of my speech at this last session of the Sejm, I would like to thank the marshal, your marshal, for his cooperation, for his opportunity to speak. If there was anything wrong with me, I'm so sorry. On the other hand, I wanted to say that I will not cease in my efforts and actions towards a strong Polish country, in favour of Poles being a subject in Poland, not a subject of manipulation. The strong Polish country is a strong executive power, it is a strong economy and a stable parliament. I hope I come back again someday. Thank you, Marshal, thank you, High Izbo.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u258	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Edyta Kubik.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u259	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Being a Member is the privilege of representing society, of solving human problems. Today, there were words in this room: environmental disaster, water pollution, danger. The term of office of the Sejm shall be four years. It turns out that it is far too short for Polish law to keep up with technological development pushed by our Polish government. We hear: electromobility, but our law has not been adapted to such rapid technological development, especially environmental law, water protection law and soil protection law. I'm not just a Member, I'm a member of the social committee, especially the stop of the construction of electrolyte plants in Godzikowice, which protects the health and life of the inhabitants of Godzikowice, the commune of Oława and the city of Wroclaw. It is in Godzkowice that two of Europe's first lithium-ion battery electrolyte plants are to be set up. Electrolyte is a component of 20 and 39 chemical substances. These substances are flammable, toxic, explosive, carcinogenic, mutagenic. These two biggest investments in Poland, which have not been absolutely tested in any way, are to be created within 650 m from the inhabitants of Godzikowice and 650 m from the strategic reception of drinking water for the city of Wroclaw. 98% Drinking water for the city of Wroclaw flows right next to Godzikowice, right next to the economic zone. We, residents of Godzivice in our fight, sent about 300 requests for public information in our six-month protest. We have received a document from the Ministry of the Environment, from which it is clear that neither in Poland nor in the European Union the law has been adapted to such a new branch of production as electrolytes for lithium-ion batteries. This document shows that neither in Poland nor in the European Union there are certain limits on air, water and soil pollutants. In Poland, there are situations where economic zones are formed on the main groundwater reservoirs. These tanks are later, in a strange way, removed from the records, which does not change the fact that economic zones are created on easily contaminated quaternary water decks. Polish law allows this, alby municipalities pushed changes of local spatial planning plans under the dictation of investors. That was the case with Godzivice. In his duties, the councillors were persuaded to change the local zoning plan according to the needs of investors. I wanted to appeal to the High House. Unfortunately, this room is almost empty today, we have a few people left. I would also like to appeal to Members of the future term, who may someday listen to this recording, so that, with technological development, there is a right to the law to go before technological development. Ladies and gentlemen, take care of us, of society, of people who later vote for Members, for those who sit in this House. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u260	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Janusz Sanocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u261	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Citizens! Parliamentary elections took place on 13 October 2019. While in the Senate elections every citizen could submit his candidacy, what I did and did to a few other citizens, in the elections to the Sejm there was no such possibility of a Polish citizen. The State Election Commission, in its ruling at my request on 31 May, stated that the Polish electoral code does not provide for the possibility of individual application for a Member's mandate, which clearly violates the Polish constitution, i.e. Article 2 32 and Article 32 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 60. The Pole, who cannot run individually, was sentenced to the fact that the exercise of his passive electoral right was decided in practice by the oligarchs of several political parties. [[Applause]] In this way, we were taken away from the right to run for Sejm. This decision was passed to Mr Kaczyński, Mr Schetin and their surroundings. In this way, ladies and gentlemen, all the ones on the PiS list and all the ones on the Civic Platform and coalition list entered the Sejm in these elections. All of them. 3/4 Members of the future term of office will be chosen from the first, second and third places. I ask the question: Who has chosen these Members? Are the citizens at the urns or the leaders of political parties? The answer is absolutely simple: party leaders. That means the art was violated. 96 constitutions in terms of the conditions to be met by democratic elections. Namely, equality of the electoral process has been violated, because some citizens decide who can run and who can't. The universality of electoral law and directness have been violated. Since so many adjectives of electoral law as described in the article have been violated. 96 constitutions, it must be stated explicitly that the elections to the Sejm were invalid. For it cannot be important elections to the Sejm conducted according to the electoral code, which violates the constitution. I therefore appeal to President Andrzej Duda, the President of the Republic of Poland, whose main task is to safeguard the Constitution, to abstain from the convening of the new Sejm and to ask the Constitutional Tribunal to examine my request for the declaration of the incompatibility of the electoral code with the Constitution as a matter of urgency. Elections to the Sejm were irrelevant. Defenders of this party election system often refer to the fact that Article. 96 is still the fifth adjective that the elections are to be proportional. Right and Justice received 43% , almost 44% The votes, but in the Sejm it has a vast majority, it has more than 50% Voices. In the Senate, on the other hand, which was single-mandated, there is 48%. I'm asking you which choices are more proportionate. Whether those run in monomandate districts, which result in the Senate, or those conducted according to the so-called. proportional ordination, which is not a proportionate ordination at all? During this last speech, I call on all citizens to support our ongoing proposal to change the electoral system, which is pathological, violates the constitution, violates civil rights and leads to a reduction in the quality of Parliament. The Senate will be a genuinely legitimate chamber in this term of office. I therefore call on the Senate to take a legislative initiative to change the electoral system to the Sejm. Without this change, Poland will continue to enter into senseless conflicts, in sick partying, in pathological agreements at the interface of state companies and political parties. I appeal to the President to put an end to this lawlessness. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u262	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Paweł Grabowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u263	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is my last, 350th speech in the 8th term of office. In view of the above, I would like to say three words in a summary: thank you, I am sorry and please. Firstly, I would like to thank all those who invested their vote in me in 2015, in my candidacy, so that I had the honour of being a Member of the Polish Parliament for four years. I hope I have not failed you, and in many situations I have been a cause for joy, pride or at least helped as much as I could. On the other hand, I'm sorry. I'm sorry for all the people I've just failed, who I haven't been able to help, even though my intentions were big, big. Third, I'm asking you to just mention me well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u264	Thank you very much. Mr Stanisław Pieta has signed up for the vote. Are you an MP? [[There isn't.]] There isn't. Please, Mrs Krystyna Skowronska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u265	Dear Marshal, Dear Members, The elections took place on 13 October 2019. I thank all Poles who took part in the election. I also thank those voters from Podkarpacie who trusted me in the elections and voted for me. I promise that during the next term I will pursue important matters for Poland and Podkarpacie: environmental protection and clean air. I'm solidifying with a youth environmental strike. I will seek good solutions for financing health care, because it is important to us. It is important that we change these bad laws - among others. about the hospital network - so that the Pole, the patient can feel safe in the hospital. I would also like to thank the volunteers very warmly and to support them in all their security activities. It annoys me and the community of volunteer firefighters that the civic project concerning the addition for the participation of volunteer friends in rescue and fire fighting unfortunately in this parliament, whose term of office ends, was not processed. I would like to thank all the volunteers who, in preparation for the good performance of their tasks and participation in rescue operations, take part in the sports and fire competitions. They were organized in individual counties. Allow me to convey special wishes and greetings to all these fellows. Special wishes and greetings are directed, among others. to the Volunteer Fire Department in Raniżów, greeting all the firefighters' friends. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u266	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u267	Miss Marshal! High Izbo! This is our last sitting in this term of office, which is why I would like to thank all those without whom our work here could not be done without obstacles, in good conditions, in a good atmosphere. I would like to thank, first of all, the management and staff of the Sejm Chancellery, the Marshal's Guard, the employees who serve our deliberations, the staff of the secretariats of committees and parliamentary teams, the Legislative Office, the staff of the Office of International Affairs and all the staff groups, in particular the drivers and traffic dispatchers, the ladies of the cleaning staff, those who did not make us hungry, who prepared meals for us in the Seym cafeterias. Thank you to the entire army of employees, because there are a lot of them. Those who prepared numerous materials for us in the Seym publishing houses too. Thank you very, very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-10-16-sejm-86-3.u268	Thank you very much, Member. That concludes our parliamentary statements. Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 86th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. Ladies and gentlemen! I, too, would like to take this opportunity to warmly thank all Members of the Sejm in this term of office. I would like to thank all the employees of the Sejm Chancellery even more warmly, but most of all the citizens who finance the work of the Sejm with their hard-earned money. I would like to apologize to the citizens for the fact that perhaps not entirely of their employees, i.e. us, were pleased and hopefully we can improve the quality of the work of the Sejm and its image in the future term. Finally, I would like to express my deep hope that one day we will be able to change the system, change the constitution, that we will be choosing the Sejm really subject to the will of citizens, i.e. in one-mandate electoral districts. You can do it, Polish. Thank you very much. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 19 min 52]]
