ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u1	Resume session. High Izbo, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point: the President of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, today we will start by considering the draft resolution commemorating Prof. Karol Modzelewski, and then we will proceed to the point concerning the appeal of the chairman of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. The votes on these 2 points will take place immediately after each of them has been considered. The Senate will then proceed with the examination of point 18, i.e.: Act on the Polish Charter. After considering point 18, we will proceed with the examination of the remaining points. At 12.00 a two-hour break will be ordered for opening of the exhibition, so far and so close: Latvia and Poland. More than 100 years of common history. Immediately after the re-election of the session at 14.00, the Senate will proceed with the examination of the 19th paragraph: the Law amending the Law on Police and certain other laws; the 20th Law concerning the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the International Criminal Police Organisation of Interpol; the 21st Law concerning the ratification of the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Japan, of the other part. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-third of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution commemorating Prof. Karol Modzelewski. Let me remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators. Print No 1170 and the report in print No 1170 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Grażyna Sztark, to present the committee's report on the draft resolution. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u2	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to present a report to the draft resolution of the Senate of the Republic on the subject of the commemoration of Prof. Karol Modzelewski. On 7 May this year. a meeting of the Legislative Commission was held, which examined the draft resolution submitted by the applicants and amended it. The project is included in print No 1170. In agreement with the applicants, after examining the content, I would like to make an amendment, Mr Marshal, which is a uniform text of the resolution, which takes into account the intentions of the applicants, which are not reflected in the draft resolution presented by the committee, which you received today in senate prints. And I have a request here, too. I'm putting it here... I will make this amendment and, at the same time, I ask the marshal to appoint a committee meeting within a time limit allowing for a third reading at this Senate meeting. And now I may go to read, to present a draft resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland commemorating Prof. Karol Modzelewski. With great regret and sorrow, the Senate The Republic of Poland adopted a message about the death of Prof. Karol Modzelewski, an outstanding Pole, a bachelor of the Order of the White Eagle and the Knight's Cross of the Order of the Rebirth of Poland, a senator of the first term of the reborn Senate, a member of the Polish Academy of Sciences, a doctor of honoris causa of the University of Kazimierz the Great, a laureate of the Foundation's Prize for Polish Science and the Prize of Literary Science. Karol Modzelewski, as a historian, places his scientific achievements among outstanding Polish scientists in a European way. In 1968, when the authorities banned the issue of students Mickiewicz, he organized rallies of students. He called for independence without censorship. From the beginning he was one of the main figures creating the largest social and independence movement in Poland's history. The Independent Self-Professional Union of Solidarity. He was the founder of the name for the Union, which became a symbol of the global struggle for freedom and human rights. During the period of legal activity of the Union he was the author of numerous resolutions forming his doctrine. He was characterized by an unusual social sensitivity, a reaction to human harm and exclusion. He paid a high price for such uncompromising attitude. The communist regime deprived him of his freedom for more than eight years, and after he was released from prison, he was prevented from working as a scientist in Warsaw. In free Poland he chose the path of science, although he did not stop speaking in defence of democracy, tolerance, freedom of research. For the rest of his life, he remained a man of the left. He was modest, helpful, extremely hardworking, devoted to the service of society. Students confirm his incompetence and openness as a lecturer. Before his death, he published an autobiography entitled: We're going to drive a story. Confessions of a beaten rider, translated into other languages. The Senate of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to the great patriot, relentless in the fight for freedom, democracy and civil rights of a scientist, a man who deserves Poland well. It'll stay in our memory! The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. I'm handing over this amendment... [[But it's not now.]] Good. Good. [[That's it?]] Yes. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u3	Thank you very much. Welcome to the meeting the wife of Professor Karol Modzelewski, Mrs Margaret Goetz. Welcome very much. [[Applause]] I also welcome the brother of the wife of Professor Paul Goetz. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] At present, senators may submit no more than one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants have authorized them to represent Senator Jan Rulewski. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you. [[Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. No one signed up. I'm informing you that no one... [[I'd fold...]] Then please, now make this amendment, yes. [[There you go.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there will be no amendment... React. Who signed up for the discussion? Mr. Senator Klich. You're welcome. [[Go, go...]] [[May I?]] No one's registered. Someone's got to sign up. Then I... Who signed up? [[Senator Jan Rulewski.]] Senator Jan Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u4	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I apologize immediately for this little disorderly day related to today, and a rather unexpected day, because every death is unexpected, especially when it is the death of such an outstanding man, a Pole, a member of our House, a senator and a term of office of Charles Modzelewski. High Izbo! Mrs. Margaret, Professor Charles Modzelewski's widow! The resolution read by my colleague, member of the Solidarity movement, a participant in the common path of freedom, which many of us here, on each side of the room, have lived and stayed, of course, has its logic. It is also due to some pragmatism, which is adopted during the creation of such documents, so it must be quite strict, I would say that it is an alternative to an illustration resolution. This resolution is abstract, so perhaps not everything that is known, from the rich road Prof. Karol Modzelewski includes. Emphasising that he was an outstanding man is not just a rhetorical and occasional expression. This outstandingness can be meaningd differently, for example by performing functions Although Charles Modzelewski did not perform any of these significant functions in the democratic state, as before, he did not perform any of these important functions in the democratic state. or through recognition of others, state authorities, organisations, scientific associations. And here he met with great recognition, because he was awarded, as one of the few, the Order of the White Eagle, which was given to him already free in Poland, but also earlier was awarded, by President Kaczorowski, the Bachelor's Cross of the Order of Rebirth of Poland. The world also recognized his efforts, honoring him with the Order of the Legion of Honor. Knowing his character, I'm saying these things would be in the second row. His passion, his life, and his science were more real. And here we know him mainly from the function he held in Polish science as a professor at the University of Warsaw and the University of Wrocław, but also as a member or even vice-president of the Polish Academy of Sciences. This activity was not merely a matter of taking up posts, it was marked by works, the results of many years of work. Barbarian Europe, the effect of many years of scientific work, has been recognized not only in Poland but also in the world, is still on the shelves and attracts the attention of readers throughout the country, reveals our European identity. After all, there are other works, concerning e.g. the situation of peasants during the Piast monarchy. I draw attention to the fact that in this work he particularly emphasized the harm of peasants. If you don't mind, I'm going to give you a thought, which, as a result of this transmission, has stuck deep in my memory. The harm was that... He, examining many parish, peasant and museum books, discovered that feudalism had to fall, because from one ear, which contained from 10 to 12 grains, the peasant remained two, and the others went to reproduce the harvest, to tithes, above all on taxes, various taxes. Perhaps even then, or perhaps earlier, this empathy was born towards the persecuted people, which he included in the next book, a completely different character, namely in autobiography, when he said that peasants, employed workers will always be exploited and will always have one right. The right to whip them. But let us return to the question of illustration of his actions, which, I believe, are like stones which... It was difficult to write in the Seym resolution. [[The Senate.]] Senate resolution, I'm sorry. These stones sit this man of iron, already as a scientist, among the eminent. But he was also a man of great deeds and even greater sacrifice. There may be questions here as to whether my conviction, which I wish to present to the High House, to support the draft resolution in its entirety... It is mainly due to the fact that the activities in which he participated were of a team nature always with others and always for the benefit of others. And that these activities covered the whole of the European theatre. The transformations in Hungary and later October in Poland, this is already his first participation. Then, when the symbol of independence or even sovereignty appeared to be October, and in it Comrade Gomulka, he goes on a rally to the workers in Zeroń, to Goździek, to the participant, to the leader of those changes. Although he was only a student, sometimes it is difficult to cross factory gates. In 1964, as a young Marxist and, let's add, as a member of the party, the Polish United Workers' Party, only for a moment, he did not agree to party and administrative governments held in the name and use of the working class, as he wrote, for the use of workers. And in this brief incident, a rebellion was born in him, which resulted in a letter in common with Jack Curon, addressed to the party. He was accusing the workers of treason. This motive will shape his life until the last days. Of course, in free Poland the issue of belonging to the Polish United Workers' Party is controversial. Although let us remind you that then Europe The idea of socialism and communism was flooded by the United States, even though it was narrowly flooded with the idea of socialism and communism. It is enough to mention that the Italian Communist Party had six and a half million members, French three and a half, and even the American party was counted in hundreds of thousands of people. Or maybe he was just trying to get to the story. But this attempt caused him to feel sore about her, as he writes in his autobiography. That pain at the time cost three and a half years in prison. Six months, I'll add, for origin. Maybe those six months meant more than the other three. It was not a man whose primary function was only revolutionary activity. As he said, it was because of the need of the heart, but also from deep beliefs, to speak a very columnical language. Because when in 1968 students raise protest on the news about the photo of the Grandpas from the scene of the National Theatre, he is among them, he throws a password of independence without censorship. This slogan became the slogan in a state ruled by Communists at that time, which guaranteed supposed freedom of speech and independence. What is important is that at that time it was the only youth revolution, the revolution of young people in the countries of the Eastern block, and thus impossible to grasp by the awareness of this power. [[Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, but it's been ten minutes...]] Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, but... [[Ten minutes...]] ...it's not my fault... Oh, that's 10 minutes, right? [[It's the rules.]] Excuse me. I may be able to perform for another five minutes, but, indeed, if the marshal shows some tolerance for my disorder... I would like to talk about the most important thing that the resolution is talking about. Maybe I'll skip the "Solidarity" period, his outstanding talents... He was undoubtedly the soul of this Solidarity, he was the author of resolutions, statements, he was the author of the Call for Solidarity and its name, he was, I do not hesitate to use this term, the Doctor of Solidarity. His fate in free Poland is well known, so maybe I'll shorten my speech and say yes... But he was also a real man. His guardian angel was Mrs. Margaret here, the widow. Mrs. Gretel, we thank you for doing your duty as guardian angel, for having a lock for his decision. High Izbo, as his colleague, as a participant in this fight, I would like to say goodbye to him. Farewell, Charles, rest in peace. You've won! [[Senator Jan Rulewski raises his hand with the inscription "Karol" in the gesture "V"]] Rest in peace. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u5	Thank you very much. Senator Bogdan Klich. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Mrs Margaret! The resolution speaks much about the biography of Karol Modzelewski, but does not speak much Because it's not the matter of the Senate resolution. His attitude and his sensitivity, which is why I'd like to give a few words to him. Karol Modzelewski is a typical Polish intelligence. One who feels obliged to live in such a way that the thought turns into action so that reflections and words are always accompanied by action. He is a man who, loving the field of science he is practicing, at the same time feels the call to express himself actively in key situations for the nation, for society, and thus not only to be a passive witness, but also a participant, an active participant. And for this younger part of the generation, Karol Modzelewski was such a person, for us, who were still students at the time of the "Solidarity." He shaped his posture through his own posture. He shaped our reflection through his in-depth reflection, in which he was an absolute master. He participated in the most important events in the post-war history of Poland, and in an active manner in 1956, in 1968, and finally in those most important events which were connected with the rise of.Solidarity. In fact, his biography could describe the fate of a large part of the Polish society. Not all of them, but a large part of the Polish society. Because these milestones of Polish history meant his biography. The determination resulting from his character was the basis of his actions, and the consequence was that he could effectively convert the thought into a written word, and the word was written into action. I think it was the biography of Karol Modzelewski that made him a spokesman for Solidarity, because he spent his mature years preparing the ground for the formation of the union. This lapidarity of the word and the ability to formulate thoughts predestined it to speak on behalf of the union, to formulate in a holistic way, concisely his resolutions. Finally, this ability to use the true word made Charles Modzelewski listen. He was listened to by his followers, and fierce opponents, and for his words and actions the communist regime gave him a solid punishment every now and then. Those eight years, eight years in prison in total, that's the measure. the meaning of his words and his actions. I think that not only for Warsaw, not only for Wrocław, in which he spent a large part of his life, but for the whole of Poland Karol Modzelewski is the embodiment of this outgoing generation of fathers founders of our new sovereignty and our new democracy. Therefore, in my opinion, in the form of a resolution In a more lapidary form, more lapidary than the original text of the resolution We owe him homage and great thanks, especially as senator of this House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u7	Thank you very much. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u8	Dear Marshal, Dear Mr. Close Professor Charles Modzelewski! Ladies and gentlemen, senators! I am a senator from Wrocław and I have had the honour of knowing Professor Karol Modzelewski. I met him back in the '80s. I was a young girl then and I met him at Wroclaw University. He was very closely associated with Wroclaw and repeatedly mentioned that Wroclaw was a particularly close city to him. He worked in Wrocław at the Institute of Material Culture History of the Polish Academy of Sciences and later as a professor at the Historical Institute in Wrocław. That's where he made many friends, students who still remember him today. That's why so many people were at the professor's funeral yesterday and so many people remember him. Not only as a prominent scientist, but also as a warm, good man, because he was to his disciples, he was to his friends. And that's why Wroclaw gave him all the honor he could. First of all, he distinguished him with the honorary citizenship of the city, which he deserved so much, until today he is mentioned and his name will always remain in the memory of the Wrocławians. But I would like to remind you here, since we're in the Senate, that he was just a senator from Wrocław. It was the Wrocławs who elected him Senator and represented Wroclaw here. So that I would like to say that it will always have this warm place in our heart and in the memory of the Wrocławians. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u9	Thank you very much. Senator Oremski's still signed up. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I must say that when I took my senate oath eight years ago, it was my vanity that I was somehow here the successor of Charles Modzelewski, who in 1989 was elected from my land to the Senate, the first Senate of the Third Polish Republic. He was to me, except that a very warm, elegant man... When he was in the hospital where my wife worked in the '90s, my wife said, "He's such a man that even in his pajamas he's elegant." But he was the most important thing to me. In this political aspect, a socialist. It's your choice, Professor. Modzelewski was not the closest choice to me. But at the same time he continued this socialist thought, which Poland owes very much to me, and in regaining independence in 1918, and later in the struggle for independence during World War II. I think that Professor Karol Modzelewski was an example of the continuation of this thought in the struggle in the Polish People's Republic. Of course, from my perspective, from the perspective of my grandfather without a Matura, who never referred to the PZPR as an organization that serves Poland and serves the good of the man, his letter to the party members was something at least naive. When I listened to yesterday's speeches at the funeral, it was an element that I didn't identify with, i.e. I received this letter as naive at the time. Well, trying to fix the totalitarian party seemed pretty abstract to me, but then I respected what happened, what was written by Professor Charles Modzelewski and Jack Curonia. I respected for two reasons, first of all because it required great courage, especially since it was an attack from within. Charles, as a historian, probably knew that sometimes he was treated worse than those who were always outside. And secondly, it came for this signature to pay a very high price. Sometimes one hears such an attack associated with belonging to the PZPR. I have to say, it's probably that you're not allowed to do virtues from belonging to this organization and make too much excuses, but you have to have an awful lot of smallness to not forgive, even though someone's spent eight years in prison. 8 years in prison If we imagine something like this, it really raises respect. To spend eight years in prison for acts for which nothing is actually happening in the normal world, and often they bring even fame in the media. I also had the impression, reading the biography and talking to the professor, that his first passion was science. These confusing Polish fates caused him to throw it and how he played the golden horn He tried to stand by the students or help the workers in 1980. Charles is also a person of great intellectual integrity to me. For me, his attitude towards Balcerowicz's plan was interesting and moving across all that was happening, an example. Here, too, he showed a consistent socialist, maybe together with Bugaj, the harder it was that all his friends and friends were in government positions, and he was able to oppose them, including perhaps his closest friend, Jacek Kuroń. He also had an interesting approach to the attitude of the trade union president, Mr Duda, to some social changes proposed in recent years. That intellectual honesty... I remember talking to Charles Modzelewski about the Church, he said at the very beginning: but, you know, I have to point out right away, because we will exchange arguments that I am outside. That was his intellectual integrity. To me, Mr. Charles Modzelewski was a person who tried to go through life in harmony with his conscience, and I think he succeeded. And by the way, I am convinced that he served Poland well. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u11	I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that you have submitted a legislative proposal in writing to Senator Grażyna Sztark on behalf of the Senators' Group. The discussion is closed. Since a legislative proposal has been submitted, the Senate is sending a draft resolution to the Legislative Commission. Senator Grażyna Sztark has requested that the committee set a deadline for preparing an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the draft resolution still at this Senate meeting. If I don't hear a voice of objection, I think the Senate has accepted the motion. As I understand it, he accepted. As a result, I am declaring a recess until 10 a.m. A message where... There you go. [[Talking in the O.R.]] In short, in which room... It's just that information. [[Room 176.]] Which one? [[176.]] Room 176. I'm calling a recess until 10:00. [[Adjournment from 9 minutes 35 to 10 minutes 01]] I'm reopening the session. We return to the examination of item twenty-third of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution commemorating Prof. Karol Modzelewski. Following the second reading of the draft resolution, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission and obliged the committee to submit an additional report at the present Senate meeting. It is in print No 1170 X. We proceed to the third reading. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Grażyna Sztark, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u12	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Dear Family! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! At its meeting of 9 May 2019, which is today, the Commission responded to the proposals put forward during the discussion. And the committee supported the proposal in print No 1170 X, in the compilation of the proposals and asks for its adoption by the High Senate together with the uniform draft resolution in print No 1170 S. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u13	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? I'll name the senators who can still speak. Senator Jan Rulewski, Senator Bogdan Klich, Senator Piotr Zientarski, Senator Grażyna Sztark, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, Senator Leszek Czarnobaj, Senator Marian Poślednik, Senator Piotr Wach, Senator Sławomir Rybicki, Senator Andrzej Kobiak, Senator Piotr Florek, Senator Waldemar Sługocki, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka. [[Voices from the room: No.]] No. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur and the applicants in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of you like to ask such a question? No. We therefore proceed to the vote. The first vote will be taken on the amendment contained in print No 1170 X and then on the adoption of the draft from print No 1170 S in its entirety, as amended by the amendment adopted. We proceed with the vote on this amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 66 senators voted, 64 votes against and two senators abstained. [[Voting No 1]] And we are voting on a draft resolution commemorating Professor Karol Modzelewski in full with changes resulting from the adopted amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 64 Senators voted, 61 votes against and three Senators abstained. [[Voting No 2]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution commemorating Prof. Karol Modzelewski. [[Applause]] I ask Mrs. Margaret Goetz to approach the president's table. I'd like to present your resolution to the Senate. You're welcome. [[Everybody up.]] [[The Marshal hands over a resolution]] [[Applause]] We proceed with the examination of item twenty-four of the agenda: the appeal of the Chairman of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. I would like to inform you that Senator Andrzej Stanisławek has resigned from his duties as chairman of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. The request for the removal of Senator Andrzej Stanisławek from the role of Chairman of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation was welcomed by the Senior Convention. The draft resolution prepared by the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs is included in print No 1172. Mr Sławomir Rybicki, rapporteur for the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, please take the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u14	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! The Committee on Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs adopted unanimously the draft resolution of the Senate on the appeal of the chairman of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation at today's meeting. I'm gonna read this project. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the appeal of the Chairman of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. §1. Senate of the Republic of Poland, pursuant to art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, dismisses Senator Andrzej Stanisławek from his role as Chairman of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. §2. The resolution shall enter into force on the date of its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u15	Thank you very much. Would any of your senators like to speak on this matter? We are voting on the appeal of the Chairman of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[We're voting! We're voting!]] We vote, ladies and gentlemen. We don't have much to vote on. Please report the results. 56 senators voted. They were all in favour. [[Voting No 3]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the appeal of the chairman of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the law amending the Road Transport Act and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1167 and the committee's report In print No 1167 A. I would ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Adam Gawada, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present a report by the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Infrastructure adopted by the Sejm on 26 April this year. a law amending the Road Transport Act and certain other laws. The Road Transport Act is intended to create a level playing field for all entrepreneurs for the transport of persons, ensuring the safety of passengers and mechanisms for checking the regularity of such activities. The exercise of an economic activity involving the exercise of national road transport for the carriage of passengers by passenger cars, a vehicle designed to carry more than 7 persons and not more than 9 persons, including the driver and a taxi, shall require the possession of the licence referred to in Article. Article 5b (5) (b) 1 Law of 6 September 2001 on road transport. The carrying out of agency for the carriage of passengers by passenger cars has not yet been regulated, unlike the carrying out of agency for the carriage of goods which may be carried out subject to a licence. The lack of adequate regulation has led to the rapid development of brokering services for the transport of persons using modern communication tools, e.g. Internet domains, computer programs or mobile applications. Not all intermediaries between the traveller and the carrier require their drivers to provide proof of possession of the licence required by law, and some of them provide services bypassing the law. The amended law proposes the introduction of a definition of mediation for the carriage of persons. It will be an economic activity involving the transfer of passenger transport orders by passenger cars, a vehicle designed to carry persons more than 7 and not more than 9, the conclusion of contracts, the charging of fees and the possibility of concluding a contract of carriage or the possibility of regulating passenger transport charges. Taking up and carrying out road transport in the field of passenger transport will require appropriate licences. An intermediary for passenger transport will also be required to transfer passenger transport orders only to undertakings with an appropriate licence. On the other hand, the driver will only be able to use transport orders from a licensed trader engaged in passenger transport. The intermediary for passenger transport will also be required to verify whether the driver to whom the carriage is ordered has the required legal documents. The Act provides for the liberalisation of certain requirements for licence applicants, inter alia. in the field of training, topography exams and knowledge of local law or working time of drivers. It also abolishes certain obligations relating to documenting the financial security of economic activities. The possibility of using the mobile application as a simpler alternative to the tax meter and the fiscal cash register is introduced. The mobile application will be able to work with the ICT system. However, data exchange between the mobile application and the ICT system must ensure the security of data transmission. In the course of the work on this law, the Legislative Bureau submitted amendments, with 6 amendments being adopted. I have tabled 10 amendments with the presidents, with amendment 9 as if I were consuming Amendment 5, as formulated by the Legislative Bureau. In total, 15 amendments were tabled to the Act. The committees recommend adopting all these amendments together with the law which was presented at the joint meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Infrastructure. I hereby recommend that this law be adopted with 15 amendments. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u17	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Senator Waldemar Sługocki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u18	Thank you very much, Marshal. Can I have the mic on, please? [[They're all on now.]] It's on. Thank you. Mr. Senator, you were talking about the liberalisation of the rules when it comes to carrying out transport, economic activities, and they seem to be meeting here. But tell me if the legislator... Was there a discussion on this at the committee meeting? Doesn't the legislator fear that such highly liberalised legislation will, however, lead to the emergence of many random operators who do not have certain minimum qualifications and thus jeopardise the safety of users of such services? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u19	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u20	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Indeed, there was such a discussion. This law, in my opinion and in my opinion of the Ministry, responds to the current regulations and current challenges facing transport in general, not only in Poland, but in Europe and in the world, in which transport is being used more and more newer technologies and communication techniques between the commissioning and the contractor. This liberalisation therefore allows cooperation to be established on the one hand, but on the other hand imposes certain obligations: licences, checking by the trader whether the person who accepts the contract has the authority. Of course, it is natural to take care of the safety of travelers. I think that these requirements are in particular met by a condition which indicates that each carrier must have all the rights provided for in the permits. And, of course, the basic condition is that he must be the holder of the right category of driving licence - it is a state examination, so here is the first very important verification. It must also be given the appropriate powers provided for by law. In my opinion and in my opinion, these regulations are somehow balancing this market, which has so far been unregulated and which has been run through various types of mobile applications. Except everything has to be recorded, mostly by electronic means. In the event of a suspected infringement, he will always have to demonstrate how he makes the register, to whom he has transferred the order, and whether whoever has received the order has all the documents and powers required by law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u21	Thank you very much. And the question is asked by Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u22	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question for you. Recently, we have witnessed a spectacular protest by the cab driver community from all over the country - as I understand in connection with this bill that we are currently investigating. Would the senator like to point out what was the reason for this protest and what arguments were used by professional taxi drivers? Some of their demands have been fulfilled in this bill, but not in its entirety. Nor did they fully accept the regulations that we are currently dealing with. Was there a discussion at the committee meeting on this subject? And was this problem addressed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u23	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Yes, Mr. Senator, of course there was such a discussion. At the committee meeting, we were assured that this bill, along with the regulations that will come in... Because this, Dear Senators, is that this law creates a general framework for the operation of individual transport, and all the specific requirements will be properly included in the regulations. There are a lot of these regulations that we refer to in this law, and they affect many areas. But I would like to stress very strongly that, despite the various voices of the social side, as well as the voices that sounded, the representation of entrepreneurs and employers involved in individual transport, this is a good bill. Of course, there were voices that pointed to certain risks and expressed concern that not exactly what we are talking about will regulate. And the protests touched on the fact that there was some extreme inequality between all the corporations that carry out individual transport, car transport, and entrepreneurs who, using mobile applications, do not have to meet all these rigors. In my view, and in my opinion of the Ministry, this law balances this very strongly - on the one hand, it introduces a level playing field for all, it liberalizes this market, on the other hand, individual transport will also be able to take place using these modern techniques. We're practically not shutting down today. Probably in time, we will need to re-examine the way this law works with regulations and consider whether the techniques introduced in the future, say, are not looking for some margin of law. Because if someone knowingly violates the law, as Minister Adamczyk said, he will be subject to strict criminal rules - first related to offences and later, if this is a criminal offence, criminal rules.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u25	Thank you. And you ask Senator Piotr Florek a question. Would you like to ask, Senator? [[No, I have another question.]] Next question... But there is no Senator Peter Flork... [[I'm here, I'm here.]] You're a senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, 15 amendments in the Senate, as you said, part proposed by the Legislative Bureau, part probably suggested by the government, very fast pace of work also in the Sejm, as I recall... The point was to cancel the subcommittee, there was no subcommittee. This law passed quickly, so there are doubts as to whether special care has been taken with such an important bill. After all, it was known earlier, for years there was another proposal, there was a proposal made earlier, unless two years ago, in this case. My question is this... Because you know that you have to balance it, you have to balance the relationship between this traditional transport, the traditional transport of people and the mobile applications that have emerged recently. Since these mobile applications are also used in many countries in the world and in Europe, from London to Moscow, I have a question about whether you have also discussed this issue, what are the solutions in other European countries, and if you have talked, whether they are similar to those adopted in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u27	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. At the committee meeting, the subject raised today was not addressed. In my opinion, the Ministry of Infrastructure has carried out such a review and analysis of how it works, because this was due to the statements of various people, including the Minister and the heads of the relevant units. However, I am not able to say precisely whether it was a complete analysis. I think whether the President or the Minister will answer that question. All I can say is that at the committee meeting, this issue was not addressed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u29	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski wants to ask you a question. Will anybody else want to ask you a question? [[Voice from the room: No, it won't.]] Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u30	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have this question: what is the standard of passenger protection when it moves a taxi with a license that meets all the standards, is in the corporation, will happen for example. to an accident caused by a service provider, i.e. a taxi driver, and the passenger will have e.g. the temporary period of incapacity for work, the question of compensation, etc., and what is the situation of the same passenger who uses an alternative means of transport? Does it then have the same protection and the same guarantees and in the event that, for example, there is a risk that it would occur. to harm his health, will he have from whom to demand adequate compensation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u31	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u32	At the committee meeting, the subject was not discussed more widely. However, in my experience and knowledge, it is clear that such a person must certainly meet the same conditions. The mere assumption of this law is that everyone, whether they operate individually, on their own and have all the licenses required by law, licenses, or conducts it in the form of mediation, so that the entrepreneur hires employees or employs foreign agents by means of mediation... Well, he's gonna have to check that the customer has all the permits and the rights to operate, including the compulsory insurance. It is the rules that clearly regulate and there will be no difference here.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u33	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? There isn't. I thank the rapporteur very much. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Infrastructure has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Talking in the O.R.]] We have Minister Rafał Weber with us today... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm sorry, but it's out loud in the O.R. Quiet, please. ...Mr Rafał Weber, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure. We also have Mr. Alvin Gajadhur, Chief Inspector of Road Transport. Hello, gentlemen, very cordially. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration? You're welcome, Minister. Come on up to the podium. [[There's a question.]] Yes, there will also be questions, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski has already volunteered. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u34	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I'll start by thanking the committee that worked on this bill here in the Senate. The work was very substantive, the questions were actually related to changes, which we propose as a government, we propose as the Ministry of Infrastructure, and many issues in my opinion have been clarified. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for the fact that he has now so completely communicated the information that came from the senators' inquiries. Ladies and gentlemen, it will be very brief. When I evaluate this law, I'm going to say that we have four very specific goals through it. The first objective is to strengthen passenger safety, i.e. all persons who will benefit from passenger transport after the entry into force of this law. This is how we want to level the market. We want every car that carries a passenger... every person who drives a car like this to perform a service of the highest standard. This person will have to have a medical examination, a psychological examination, and he will have to show no criminal record. I stress: a certificate, not a statement; this amendment was introduced during the work on the Law already in the Sejm. In addition, it will also have to have a licence when we are talking about intermediaries in passenger transport, and according to the Senate amendment, each car will have to be accompanied by a discharge of this licence. So that by implementing these issues it will be regulated to increase the safety of passengers so that anyone who uses such services has confidence and confidence that he will safely reach the place where he intends to reach. Second target. This bill eliminates the gray zone. At the moment, we are dealing with an increasing issue related to the grey zone, i.e. the carriage of passengers in a way that is not governed by law. This is why there are many abuses. I thank the Road Transport Inspections for trying very hard to limit these pathological situations that they carry out checks, and these checks are very effective in many places. We introduce regulations that every registered economic activity, which concerns the carriage of persons, must be registered in our country, so that the carrier, the intermediary pays taxes here and here, in Poland, is liable criminally, also legally. The third point is the legal agreement to allow mobile applications to be used in relation to passenger and service provider communication. I know this case has grown into a very serious problem. I know that some of the taxi environments are expecting us, from the government, to block this application. However, first of all, there is no legal possibility, and second of all, a large part of Polish society has become accustomed to the fact that it can order passenger transport via mobile phones, i.e. using specially created applications. There are also some Polish carriers, Polish taxi companies, which offer their services through such applications. So that the operation of mobile applications as modern connecting technologies on the passenger line The carrier is possible and this law also ensures that. The fourth aspect of this law is deregulation. I, ladies and gentlemen, heard one of the speakers at the meeting of the Parliamentary Committee on Infrastructure, who, as an allegation, stated that this law was a deregulation law. Well, well, there's nothing better for the minister than to hear that he's deregulating the law, which means he's liberalizing an area. Of course, he's liberalizing with common sense. Because it makes such an area much more competitive and accessible to society. So we deregulate the area of passenger taxi transport by eliminating the obligation of training and exam from topography. At the moment, such an obligation exists in cities with more than 100,000 inhabitants, if the city councils impose such an obligation on taxi drivers. In a time of GPS, in an age of applications that direct traffic, which can determine what route is shortest, the fastest that is not corked, such an exam, to be honest, we consider archaic. This law eliminates the topography exam and the knowledge of local law precisely because we believe that this issue is regulated by applications that are used to ensure that the traffic jams move in cities efficiently, quickly and without undue delay. Mr. Senator, ladies and gentlemen, we are pursuing four main objectives through this bill. She was well received by the cabbie community. The environment believes that it is needed. At the seym stage, we introduced one amendment that meets the expectations of the taxi driver environment. The Sejm decided that, as I said earlier, the statement should be converted into a certificate. At the stage of the Senate work the day before yesterday there was another amendment that said that every taxi of the intermediary would need a discharge, not a license, so that the intermediary would be more responsible for his employees. So that, in my opinion, after these amendments, this law it really responds to the signals that have come to us, to the ministry, and to the state, to the parliamentarians, from the taxi environment, but it maintains these 4 objectives that I have said, and this 1 overarching objective. we create a law that is equal for all, which is uniform for all and which, once these objectives are met, will make the passenger transport market safe for the passenger. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u35	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators can report no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative... [[I...]] I remember, Mr. Senator, but I need to read this formula. ...related to this item on the agenda. Please, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski is asking a question to the Minister. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u36	Thank you very much. Minister, what do you say in such a simple, communicative language? Will it change when it comes to services called Uber? What will change simply from the side of the citizen and from the organiser of these services after the entry into force of this law?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u37	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Such an operator will have to fulfil a few obligations, which I mentioned just a moment ago. It means that he will have to ensure that his employee, who will carry out such transports, holds and presents a certificate of non-punishment. He will also have to present up-to-date medical examinations, he will have to present psychological tests, which means he will be an employee who will provide guarantees that such a service will be performed fairly, so that there are no accidental people on this market. Such an intermediary will also be responsible for his employees in a financial manner when they break the law, i.e. in accordance with that law, the penalty will be imposed for those employees who carry out such transports... If, of course, they do them illegally, he will be responsible for them, also financially, and it is quite painful, because the maximum penalty, if memory does not confuse me, will be 80,000 PLN. So that in this respect we impose new obligations on companies that, without mentioning their names, currently carry out passenger transport and do so in a questionable way. As a general rule, on the basis of the laws we propose, they will have to comply with this law and fulfil several obligations which I will repeat once again, ensure that passenger transport is carried out not only in a lawful but also in a safe manner.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u38	Thank you very much. You wanna ask me another question? [[Ask another question and ask at the same time.]] Good. Senator Adam Gawada. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u39	Minister, I would ask this question at a committee meeting, but I could not because the students asked him after the committee meeting. So I'd just like to ask you how it's going to be regulated... Well, maybe this isn't the market. But how will there be regulated issues that are especially used by students, by learners, commuting to universities, who also use the mobile application to make an appointment, colloquially speaking, for common transport? Let's say one of the people owns a private car and takes 2, 3 colleagues, communicates with them online, and together they take the route from point A to point B. Will it also require regulation, or will it just be a matter of such a civilian agreement, so I would call it?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u40	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u41	This law does not regulate this issue, this law does not affect this issue.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u42	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. Mr. Senator, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u43	Thank you very much, Marshal. I'm gonna go over the subject that I've taken up, and that's what I'm talking about. As far as I know, someone who is a professional taxi driver, who holds a license, has a special type of insurance, i.e. if e.g. There is a collision because of his fault and the passenger is injured, the driver is insured against civil liability due to the cost of treatment, other situations, compensations, etc. etc. Here's my question. If someone's doing... I don't name any company, I use the Minister's formula. Will the passenger safety standard be identical in this respect? That is, whether, in the light of these provisions, such a person will have to have insurance that guarantees that all costs of treatment, compensation, etc. will be covered. etc., as is the case with a licensed taxi passenger? And the other thing. I'll give you an example. I once ordered a course from Świętojerska Street to the Sejm, to the Senate. As you know, the shortest, fastest route is the route through Krakowskie Przedmieście. However, the person carrying out these orders, notabene professional taxi driver, but not knowing the topography of Warsaw, entered an address in Google and of course Google threw the route through the Bank Square because, as you know, Krakowskie Przedmieście is only available for certain categories of vehicles. Taxi can take Krakowskie Przedmieście, which would be much faster. This service was longer and more expensive. So here I would consider whether knowledge of the topography of the terrain is, however, not an important element for this profession related to the provision of transport services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u44	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u45	I'll answer the senator's first question. Yes, because we regulate the market by giving obligations that must be fulfilled by all passenger carriers, this taxi driver After the entry into force of these laws, such a person will actually become a taxi driver, because all who will comply with the provisions of this law will be able to be called taxi drivers in this common language. So that's the new thing that's written in this bill, compared to the current reality. Now I'm gonna answer the second question. Exactly, Mr. Senator used the taxi service, which is the service of the person who passed the exam, and yet she chose a different route, was so directed by GPS or consciously chose a different route. So that even the exam does not give a 100% guarantee of choosing the shortest and fastest route. I must tell you that as a person who also uses taxi services in Warsaw, I see that almost every taxi driver uses such devices to guide the car to the fastest route to its destination. So we don't think the exams are gonna make it any better. However, I would like to stress that many local governments leave exams, for example. In the Tricity. The authorities of Gdansk did not impose an obligation to pass training and exams from topography and there are no negative signals from Gdansk regarding passenger transport, taxi transport.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u46	Thank you very much. You're Senator Jerzy Czerwinski, right? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u47	Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, Minister, three short questions. First: why does this law enter into force only on 1 January 2020? It's in over six months. What is it that needs to be done to prepare for this bill, why is it such a long time? Question two. Well, you're saying that now the cab load, I'd call it mobile and the usual will be the same. Then why did these ordinary taxi drivers protest? What did they really mean if the bill was good for them? Because that's what the Minister says. And question three. These external companies that have entered this free market here, not at all tidy, are, I understand, foreign companies. The question is: do they work in the same way outside Poland, in case there are no regulations there? Is there such a free market there, of course, in quotes?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u48	Now, right? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u49	Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, when I answer the first question, I will say this: we give time for intermediaries, i.e. those who will be covered by this law, to be able to meet the conditions set out in this Act. It is about new responsibilities: obtaining certificates, research, registration of their activities in Poland. Well, the market takes time to adapt to these new rules. And in our view, this six-month period is not long. There have even been amendments by some of the members of the Committee on Infrastructure to extend this period by the first quarter of 2020. However, in our view, six months is sufficient for the market, which is currently not covered by this law, to comply with its provisions. Second thing: Cabbie protest. In general, only a part of the taxi drivers protested, the one that, in our opinion, does not want this market to be freed. But, as I said earlier, two of their demands in case the High House passes this bill will be met: the exchange of a declaration for a declaration of non-punishment and the replacement of a licence for each car for discharge, which will result in greater liability for intermediaries. That's what the cab environment was all about. And these 2 changes through the High House, through the Sejm and the Senate will be introduced. Thank you very much for this third question, because it is very important in the context of this law. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in principle, the vast majority of countries do not have these issues regulated, i.e. they are the same chaos in general as in Poland at the moment. And already representatives of some countries are in contact with the Ministry of Infrastructure, knowing that such regulation is prepared and that it will be implemented by us, asking how it is We have done what we have done in this bill and how we want to harmonise the passenger transport market and make it the same for everyone as for the game. So, in our view, we are precursors and we are creating really healthy and good rules for operating in the passenger transport market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u50	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? No. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: Thank you very much.]] [[Applause]] I'm opening a discussion. [[No one signed up.]] I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the law amending the law The text of the Act is contained in print No 1151, and the report of the Commission in print No 1151 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Jan Hamerski, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u51	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present to the High House the bill passed at the 80th session of the Sejm, which was introduced by the Committee on Petitions. The petition, addressed by a private person, has been found to be legitimate. The law was subsequently proceded by the Parliamentary Committee on Infrastructure and was adopted by the Sejm on 11 April this year. In this vote, it was accepted without a slight unanimity, 1 Member was against and 1 abstention. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, the purpose of this law is to repeal the references to the non-essential provisions of the 2003 Foreigners Act and replace them with a reference to the Law of 12 December 2013, including those concerning foreigners, and to repeal the references to the non-binding provisions of the 1964 Act and replace them with a reference to the Law of 20 February 2015 on Things Found. So, as you can see, this law regulates the provisions relating to the reference to no longer applicable laws. One amendment was tabled at the committee meeting. This amendment was a clarification and consistency amendment to the 2012 Postal Law. I would like to ask the High House to adopt this law along with the amendment adopted in the Committee on Infrastructure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u52	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of you like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much, Senator rapporteur. [[Thank you.]] The draft law was introduced by the Sejm Committee. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? I am directing this question to Minister Rafał Weber. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Does anyone want to ask that question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of you have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law . Law on proceedings before administrative courts and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1152, and the Commission's reports In the letters Nos 1152 A and 1152 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Rafał Ambrozik, to present a report to the committee... [[Voice from the room: How about Senator Dobkowski first? I'll find Senator Ambrozik.]] Good. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Wiesław Dobkowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u53	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! On behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, I am expressing my position on the Government's submission of the Law amending the Law. Law on proceedings before administrative courts and certain other laws, print No. 1152. The Act was examined by the Commission on 7 May 2019. The aim of this law is to ensure the proper functioning of electronic administrative proceedings and the full implementation of the future IT system, so that before the entry into force of the article. 4 of the Act of 10 January 2014 amending the Act on the informationization of activities of entities carrying out public tasks and certain other laws of the parties and their representatives have been given the opportunity to file pleadings in the form of electronic documents in judicial administrative proceedings. The purpose of the Act is therefore to supplement and clarify the provisions introduced in the Law on proceedings before administrative courts. As a result of the entry into force of the Act, in particular, the forms in which letters are to be lodged in legal proceedings by electronic means will be specified, secondly, the forms in which judicial documents may be recorded in cases of electronic file. If the proceedings are of an electronic nature, the file and judicial proceedings, the minutes and the note of the court will be able to be created and recorded electronically. Thirdly, new rules on access to judicial files for parties and participants in legal proceedings will be laid down. It is about enabling electronic access to files that are available in the ICT system. I would add that if the party does not want the documents to be presented in such a manner, perhaps simply in a traditional way, by means of writing, demand... Then the court is obliged to send a letter in such a form to the party to the proceedings. The draft amendment ensures the harmonisation of the legal system relating to the computerisation of legal proceedings by introducing legal and organisational arrangements similar to those currently in force in civil proceedings, which have been tested in practice and are known, for example. professional attorneys. To this law, the Legislative Bureau proposed two legislative amendments to amend the law. They were discussed at the committee meeting, but the government side of these any amendments were not supported. Similarly, the committee wasn't interested in... anyone on the committee being interested in making such amendments. The Act introduces an obligation to indicate the relevant PESEL, KRS, REGON or NIP number in the first procedural letter. Mrs Marshal, High Senate, on behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, I request that this law be adopted without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u54	Thank you very much, Senator. Is the senator here yet? You're here, Senator. Please, Senator of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Mr Rafał Ambrozik.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to present a report on the work of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Laws and Petitions on the Law amending the Law on Procedure before Administrative Courts and on certain other laws. Senator Dobkowski explained the reasons for the amendment of the law, or in fact in the laws, which is why I will limit myself to informing the High Senate that the Human Rights Committee is asking for this law to be adopted without amendments. In the vote, one senator abstained and the rest of the senators supported the bill. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u56	Thank you very much, Senator. Now, ladies and gentlemen, senators can report from a place of no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would anyone like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Digitisation has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. We have Minister Wanda Buk from the Ministry of Digitalization. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State at Wanda Buk's Ministry of Digitalization: No, thank you.]] Thank you. Do you senators have any questions for the Minister? No questions. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. I inform you that none of your senators... [[I'd like to sign up.]] Oh, there you go, Mr. Senator. [[At the last minute, Mr. Senator... he was a little late.]] Senator Aleksander Pociej. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u57	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'll start with a sentence to a fellow secretary. I waved at him, only a fellow secretary was interested in the papers he read, so he didn't notice. I would like to express my support for this initiative and congratulate the Ministry on this next step, which is a continuation of the actions taken by Minister Gowin when he was Minister of Justice in the Civic Platform Government. Indeed, whether we are talking about digitisation of justice, whether we are talking about the introduction of electronic communication, this is a huge acceleration and I hope that at least this reform In contrast to a dozen reforms of the Ministry of Justice, which were supposed to improve, and in fact were the takeover of the justice system, it will sign up positively and actually change things in the proceedings, speed up the procedures that Poles have been complaining about for many years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u58	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed to the examination of item twenty-second of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the outbreak of the First Silesian Uprising. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 1146, and the report is published in print No 1146 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to submit a report to the committee on the draft resolution. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u59	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The Legislative Commission was quite efficient in discussing the draft resolution presented. During the meeting, three minor amendments were tabled by Senator Wojciech Piecha. These amendments were accepted by the initiators of the resolution. It must be admitted that together with Senator Jerzy Czerwiński, we initiated a very necessary resolution in our opinion relating to the first Silesian uprising. These actions were initiated a few months ago, and were conducted in a manner that we considered professional, i.e. not us as politicians, we undertook to write this resolution, but ordered it to historians, professors of history from the Silesian branch, from the Katowice branch of the Institute of National Remembrance. A total of 3 professors attempted to write such a historical figure, and also historical statements, which in practice were slightly shortened, but constituted the substance of this resolution. They undertook to create a historical figure in order to commemorate the centenary of the outbreak of this uprising. According to our opinion, After a while we know about it, because it was, as I said, commissioned a few months ago. This is also necessary because the representatives of the local government have taken special resolutions, which were written in a slightly different way, and they already function in public space, namely in a way that would try to reconcile in some form the positions of different environments, including those associated with the German people, and it turned out to be quite unfortunate, to say the least. The point is that you try to symmetise insurgent behavior with the behaviors of troops that were directed to suppress this uprising in a brutal way. There's a rift here when we put it together with how we judge this situation. We believe, I believe, but I know that Senator Czerwiński has a similar view that this treatment is not in line with the truth, it is not in line with the actual events that have taken place. And why did these uprisings explode? The subsequent uprisings show that there was a powerful force in the Polish nation, which sought to join Poland in the area that he lived in, because he did not come from the outside, lived it for many, many generations. The Polish nation sought to join this territory into free Poland. This determination was so great... this determination was obviously occupied by the blood of the victims. It was a very difficult task. The nation faced a great, strong, strong adversary for three successive uprisings. It was the first of the uprisings, but in total there were 3 uprisings. In fact, each of these 3 uprisings could be objectively considered to be lost, and as a result Poland gained access to gigantic deposits of fossil fuels, to coal deposits, the basic energy raw materials at that time, and to more than half of the industrial district, steelworks and factories. This has been the possibility of Poland's economic development for decades. This caused that later Poland was an energy country almost independent and a rich country. It seems to me that this introduction was needed to determine what the context of the resolution was. Now I'm going to start reading the draft resolution. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the 100th anniversary of the outbreak of the First Silesian Uprising. On August 16, 1919, the Silesian Uprising broke out in Upper Silesia and the first of three uprisings in which the Silesians confirmed their relationship with Macierza and resulted in a significant part of Silesia joining Poland. The regaining independence of Poland in November 1918 resulted in an increase of Polish national consciousness among the Upper Silesians. The Treaty of Versailles, signed on 28 June 1919, provided in Article 88 that a plebiscite would be held in Upper Silesia, where residents would decide on the nationality of the region. The decision of the winning powers met with dissatisfaction of Polish environments, which hoped for direct integration of these lands into the reborn Poland. The situation in the region was tense, strikes broke out, demonstrations and protests, caused by the poor social situation of the population and dissatisfaction with German governments. Therefore, in January 1919 the German authorities introduced a siege and directed significant military forces (military borders) here. Grenschutz), supported by numerous voluntary formations. Polish movement, seeking to separate the region from Germany and join Poland, was affected by repression: arrests, difficulties in the activities of public organizations, breaking up meetings, events and rallies. Meanwhile, the Polish side expanded civil and military structures, public and underground. The main secret organization was the Polish Military Organization of Upper Silesia (POW GŚl.) whose command was already outside Germany In the stream in Cieszyński Silesia. The main civil structure was the Sub-committee of the Supreme People's Council in Bytom, which was governed by a network of Polish folk councils covering the whole region. On August 11, 1919, a strike took place involving most of the mines of the industrial district. Protestants demanded, among others, raises and restore workers made redundant to work. On 15 August the German army opened fire at the mine, killing ten people, many others. In such an atmosphere of social and national tensions the first Silesian Uprising broke out. A large part of the environments. In the fight she saw the best solution to the raised problems, but the Command in Stream did not want to agree to an armed speech. On 15 and 16 August 1919, the Germans arrested several Polish Peowiat commanders. Then a group of refugees from POW GŚl, who were in Piotrowice in Cieszyński Silesia, threw the slogan to the uprising. On 17 August, some cells of the organization took them, mainly in the county of Rybnicki and Pszczyński. Taking advantage of the surprise, the insurgents occupied a number of towns, taking down fights, among others. in the Tychy area, Katowice and Bytomia. With a significant advantage, the Germans quickly moved to counteroffensive. On August 21st, most of the insurgent troops withdrew abroad, to Poland. In the end, there were over 20,000. persons who escaped for fear of German repression. As the end of the uprising, the commanding officer of the Chief POW GSl should be deemed to be ordered. Alfonso Zgrebniok of August 24, 1919, ordering the end of the fights. It was then impossible to count on the support of the Republic, involved in the fight against the Bolsheviks. Without a coherent plan, rather the result of a spontaneous bottom-up break, the uprising failed. However, it turned out to be an important manifestation of the moods of Polish environments in Upper Silesia. It also drew the attention of the international community to the Polish national aspirations in the region. On the 100th anniversary of the outbreak of the First Silesian Uprising, the Senate of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to the heroic Silesians, who loyal to their homeland, confirmed the Polishness of Upper Silesia with an armed struggle. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u60	At present, the senators may submit questions to the rapporteur's senator. The applicants have authorised them to represent Senator Grzegorz Pekkis. Are there any such questions from the senators? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Maria Paniczyk-Podziej was the first to speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u61	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Today is such a day, such a moment that we should not be silent, especially us Silesians. Why shouldn't we be silent? Because for the past century, we have been treated differently, both by the Silesians and by our own. For some, we were a minority, Germans, and for others, people who don't really know who they are. A Silesian Uprising And today, one of them we're fetching. They were also received differently. For most of them it was a natural rush of Silesians, fighting for the possibility of joining, returning to the matrix. For some, even the word "mothers" was very arduous, and for others, it was simply a brawl of irresponsible bandits. I remember there were different opinions in the Silesian press. In such, I would say, the tabloids were primarily concerned with the third Silesian Uprising, and it was written that the insurgents were such a group of beds of dwarfs, kerks with guns went to Anaberg to wash. And I remember that this really aroused huge opposition, the opposition of most people living in Silesia, who as a lively believe that they were Poles. I regret that to this day there are not enough such studies which, however, would objectively describe this heroic rush of Silesians. And in due time it was possible to use memories, studies of people, still living Silesian insurgents. 15 or 20 years ago, I had the opportunity to meet such people. About 20 years ago I was doing a report with the 95-year-old insurgent Jan Wadas from Chełm Śląski. It was a man who told a beautiful Silesian story... He, an older man, spoke of his experiences as the one who fought in the Third Uprising. He talked about his father, who participated in all three uprisings, and he said this: Madam, for Poland it would be us who would give their heart out of their breasts. And about Korfanty he said: he was our god, he was our father. And I wish you could reach out to such memories that you don't reach out to those people who could testify about how it really was. I also remember that several years ago Wojciech Korfantem was given the Order of the White Eagle in Katowice posthumously. His family, Eugenia Korfantova, daughter-in-law of Korfanta, and his grandchildren, Felix and Maria Rupp, came to this ceremony - for that was her granddaughter's name. And then they talked about how great Korfanta was, how he paid his membership to the Polish nation with what he paid. It's impossible to talk about it today because we're about to celebrate the 80th anniversary of Korfante's death, but I don't think we should forget about him. You mustn't forget because he wasn't just a big politician, but he really was a man who believed in what he was doing, and that's so rare today. He believed that Silesia belonged to Poland. He paid a high price for his uncompromisingness. For years after the war, he was ruined from history, from textbooks, but he could not be removed from the memory of people who knew him, who remembered him. Unfortunately, in some circles today Korfanty's importance is reduced. Today there are also those in Silesia who react allergicly to the words of Poland and Poland. Of course, they're in the minority, but in the noisy minority. I recall that my Silence was questioned in this room as well. I've been accused of polonocentrism, selling, not being very... That's what I'm called: she's not a Silesian richtig. And I disagreed, and I disagree, because I represent the vast majority of Silesians for whom such dilemmas do not exist. Because Silesia for the majority in Silesia is equivalent to Polishness, and vice versa. I remember years ago, she got hot in Silesia. In fact, it still continues to this day a great battle for declaring Silesian language. I once found myself incognito at a meeting of the Silesian Autonomy Movement. I sat next to an older, elderly Silesian and asked him, "Lord, why are you so interested in this Silesian language?" I mean, you're beeping godo in Silesia. He says, "Mrs. Nom, it's not about the wife tongue. Let each godo himself, as he wills. Me and nom are about nationality. You know, if we have Silesian, we have nationality. And if we have a nationality, then the nom will come to fight for autonomy. And he showed me this... So it's gonna be on a platter. And then I realized it wasn't about love of the first language, it was about autonomy. Right? It's like some people don't understand that this prewar autonomy wouldn't have anything to do with the one they're fighting for today. Besides, I don't necessarily think Silesian must know the Silesian chatter, because there are many Kashubians living in Kashubia who don't know the Kashubian language. After all, we all remember that years ago the Silesian people left Silesia for Germany, who did not speak German. Just declare that you are Polish, French, Spanish and that is your nationality. Ladies and gentlemen, I also remember how, for writing about it and talking about it, I was severely persecuted by some associations, by some people. At one time, the leader of the Silesian Autonomy Movement gave me to the prosecutor's office for slandering the good name of the Silesian Autonomy Movement. And I'm just a representative of the Silesians who think like me. I only do what my father was writing and talking about in 1900 in Opole, who never went to Polish school, but used Polish language perfectly. I'm gonna keep saying that it wasn't art during the occupation that a man was born, for example. In Lublin or Radom he said he was Polish, but that Silesian from Opole said he was Polish. You know what it was. They were camps, they were persecutions, they were a wanderer. And she could say something about that my mother, who survived that wandering around with her father. Because my father... I purposely did not bring here today, to the Senate, such a small, round... such a green plate with the letter "P" which my father wore as a stigmatist as the Jews wore David's star. And he had to get away from Silesia. He worked the entire occupation as a doorman at the enamel factory in Myszkow. And the people who went through that doorstep were very surprised: who is this doorman who reads Kant and Hegel in the original? You know, those were the complicated fates of Silesia and Silesia. [[Time's up, Senator.]] I'm gonna use these 3 or how many minutes, okay? [[Five minutes.]] [[Right away.]] [[Right away. He talks so nicely.]] And, ladies and gentlemen... [[There you go.]] I will continue to support those who continue to believe that the Silesian uprising was not a fight, and that the people who actually fought went into the uprising because that's what their parents told them to do, because in such an atmosphere they grew up. I think that there is no choice for many Polish Silesians, simply Poland and Silesia are equivalent. There are many monuments in Silesia which the Silesian struggles for Polishness document, because there is also the Museum of Silesian Uprisings in Świętochłowice, and a monument to the Silesian Insurgents in Katowice, and a mound of Liberation laid down in Piekary, which was probably finished in 1937, and the land for this mound was taken from all fields of battles from all over Poland, among others. from Grunwald. And I dream so that in two years' time, when we will celebrate the third winning Silesian Uprising, finally there was a monument to Korfanty in Warsaw, which for many years we have already proposed, which... I hope it's really a fact. I dream so that not only Silesians, but the whole Poland declared help in this, because you remember, you know that all Poland, in the post-war years especially, owes a lot to Silesia The huge material support and the fact that Silesia was building the power of the whole Poland. That's my dream. The Silesian Pole or the Silesian Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u62	Thank you, Senator. Senator Jackowski will speak as the next speaker.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u63	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At first I would like to thank the initiators of the draft resolution. I believe that it is very valuable, very important and fits into the atmosphere of the celebrations of the century connected with Poland's regaining independence after 123 years of captivity. In a fairly common image Poland on November 11 simply, as young people say, the crack-prask regained independence The borders were established, the government was formed, a legal system was created and the state was functioning, which was brutally attacked on 1 September 1939. But it wasn't. This was the whole process of forming borders of the Second Republic, which lasted almost 4 years, I will repeat: almost 4 years before the borders of the Second Republic were finally formed. And they were shaped in 1922. Thus, the Second Republic in such a form of statehood of its borders existed only 17 years. It gives us an idea of this reality from almost a century ago. High Izbo, it is impossible not to celebrate the Silesian uprising. This resolution concerns, for the sake of chronology, the first Silesian Uprising, August 1919, while actually it is there was a whole process which led to the fact that in these very unfavorable geopolitical circumstances of the then Europe, however, a significant part of Silesia was able to join the territory of the Second Republic of Poland. One could say that the situation in Silesia was in a sense similar to that in Kashubia. Kashubian independence aspirations, maybe not as spectacularly manifested as these 3 Silesian uprisings, similar dramas, about which you spoke so beautifully just a moment ago, pointing to very difficult, very painful divisions, tensions, conflicts, emotions connected with the preservation of Polishness in Upper Silesia... All the more so should we pay tribute to those heroes from 100 years ago, who, in hopeless circumstances, were able to lead to the fact that we had a significant part of Upper Silesia on the part of the Republic. The Senator rapporteur, of course, did not mention what was going on after these uprisings. Well, as we know after the first Silesian Uprising, the second Silesian Uprising broke out. As a result of the second uprising, the decision was made to carry out a plebiscite of the plebiscite, which was to determine the Silesian nationality either to Germany or to Poland. Let us remind you that a similar mechanism of international instances has been applied in the case of Mazury. There were plebiscites there, there was a plebiscite action. The plebiscite in Upper Silesia took place on 20 March 1921. One million 191 thousand people took part in it, of which 479 thousand were in favour of joining Poland, and 708 thousand were in favour of remaining within Germany. This great advantage of Germany was due to the admission to vote of people born in Silesia regardless of their place of residence at the time when the plebiscite took place. Nearly 180 thousand people came from Germany, and only 10,000 emigrants from Poland. The English government made a proposal after this plebiscite to grant Poland only the districts of Rybnicki, Pszczyński and part of Katowice and Tarnogórski, and the whole Upper Silesian industrial district to Germany. The answer to adverse partition projects for Poland was a general strike in Silesia, followed by the outbreak of the third Silesian Uprising at night from 2 to 3 May 1921. After the bloody battles on the Oder line and for the Holy Mount Anna, despite the advantage of regular German troops, the insurgents managed to maintain their positions in the prefield of Silesian industrial district. After these fights in June 1921, there were ongoing talks that managed to lead to the ceasefire. It took place on 28 June 1921. 12 October 1921 and this date is worth remembering The League of Nations rejected the English-German application to leave Upper Silesia to Germany. It was very important. If it weren't for those uprisings Which, in the general opinion, did not end in military success This would be different from the border of the Second Republic of Poland. So, all the more we should remember the heroes of that time, the more we should honor their memory, the more we should emphasize what the phenomenon of that generation or those generations was about, the phenomenon of seeking Polishness and independent Polish state. By decision of the Council of Ambassadors But this proposal fell. Poland was granted 29% of the plebiscite territory. This included the districts of Katowice, Lublin, Pszczyński, Rybnicki, Świętochłowicki and Tarnogórski. In this area there was a major part of the Upper Silesian industry, which was of great economic importance. On 15 May 1922, a Polish-German agreement regulating the division of Upper Silesia was signed in Geneva. The Polish army headed by General Stanisław Szeptycki entered Katowice on 22 June 1922. In July 1922, the Council adopted Poland finally took control of those areas which were granted. High Izbo, thank you to the authors of the resolution for her draft. I hope it will serve to commemorate the heroes of those years. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u64	Thank you, Senator. Before I give the floor to the next senators enrolled in the discussion, I would like to inform you that at 12 no matter where we are sitting, I will have to order a recess because a delegation from the Latvian Government arrives at the opening of the exhibition. So, please, senators, who will be discussing this circumstance. You're welcome, Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u65	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. It is quite difficult to speak after what Senator Panczyk-Podzi said, because this emotional charge and this testimony leave our statements in some sense empty, because we are observers and commentators from the outside. So I would like to thank both senators very briefly for this initiative. I'm really glad that this is it. As we have often said, talking to Senator Czerwinski about various draft resolutions It's a very succinct resolution. I hope that the next ones that will appear in our future will also comply with certain requirements that we have imposed on ourselves as to the failure to discuss these resolutions. Unlike many other nations, we are very attached to the uprising. We celebrate their anniversaries, remember them, even though most of them were losing. For many years there has been a debate in public space about whether most of these uprisings have been profitable for us. This debate has sounded very strongly, actually always sounds when there is another celebration of the Warsaw Uprising, because we know with what hecatomba this uprising has been associated with. There is also such a notion that... If you talk about winning an uprising, then very often in public space it is said that the only one that was won was the Greater Poland Uprising. I am very pleased that this initiative is today, because it is the first Silesian uprising, even though militaryly defeated, and also in terms of consequences, it has given us little... Well, without this uprising There's no doubt about it. There wouldn't be a second uprising and there wouldn't be a third. And here it should be said that the only win was the Greater Poland Uprising, because this third Silesian Uprising was a big success for those conditions. So once again, this is an important initiative. The only spoon I could find was those words from Senator Pekkis. Mr. Senator, I think it's just like we have. I'm talking about you, me, here. The right to express our opinion on certain historical events, we must also, and that is what this pluralism is, agree that others have different views on this historical perspective. We don't have to take him. We can preach what we consider to be a true interpretation. I, each time with all these resolutions, when they are in a collision, very often painful, with our neighbours, with whom we are finally in the best political relations after centuries, because we are most likely enjoying the longest period of peace in Europe, will urge you to refrain from emotion and division, because the value in itself, I believe, is our good neighbourly relations. Remember, let us have in our hearts what was sometimes very much hurt, because we have to give a historical witness, but let us try to avoid what may be between us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u66	Thank you, Senator. Senator Żaryn will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u67	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I, too, would like to begin by thanking the Senators of this resolution, but also, frankly, I will admit, especially to Senator Panczyk-Podzieź. Thank you very much for this testimony, because it was very beautiful, very nice, authentic and it just proved that this Polish color of patriotism is so wonderful that we can find ourselves in this wealth of love for Poland. It's insanely wise of you to say what you had to say today and what sounded like. And me, as a man who would also like to bear witness that he loves Poland, such certificates are insanely close. Well, thank you very much. And this speech I would like to devote to some historical approximation to the state of that reality, but perhaps in a direction that is worth noticing for the reasons of the loved ones. Tonight. Wojciech Korfanty has been mentioned here, especially the senator mentioned him. The figure of Wojciech Korfanty, who, I will remind you, in 1901 becomes a Member of Parliament, and this in order will be a Member of 2 Parliaments, and the Reich, and Prussian. He became the parliamentarian who entered the Polish Circle in the first decision when he became a Member. For German parliamentarians and for the German state it was a shock, a double shock. First, in Silesia the Catholic Party of the Centre, which they have voted for so far, lost. Also under the influence of Polish intellectuals located there The workers and the miners of Upper Silesia. And then suddenly they passed all their thoughts on Poland, not forgetting Catholicism, to the party of the centre, but to the second candidate, Wojciech Korfanty. It was already a shock to the Germans. And secondly, thanks to Korfantem Koło Polskie has formally ceased to be limited to the rule previously adopted by the Germans, that Poles have the right to say about themselves that they are Wielkopolskas, from the former Grand Duchy of Poznań. Because even the Germans themselves could not deny that the Grand Duchy of Poznań existed in 1816. Circle of Poland could therefore exist, but limited to this pot of land. And then it turned out that Silesia entered the Polish Circle. It is worth reminding, because it shows how we, as Poles, could, contrary to appearances. I hope that sometimes we can still do it today. It is through firmness that political reality is able to create a political reality, thanks to patriotism, and not necessarily only to one tool that is used for it. Wojciech Korfanty, when the Circle of Poland was extended to Upper Silesia, was immediately invited to the National League, to this very important tri-election organization based on 2 words: omnipolarity and omnistanity, which grew from memory and about January uprising, and about organic work. It was then understood that this 400-person Polish elite, located in 3 partitions, understood that such a man should be immediately introduced as a representative of this all-Polishness, which was then born. And this is the first point, I hope, that also showing what Senator Pociej was talking about: that this is a famous sentence and the famous title of Mr. Tomasz Łubiński's book, fear or not to fight, is, of course, a false thesis. Fighting, only in different ways. And that's, among other things. this hint from Silesia, which is also coming to us today, this ability to see things also politically, which does not have to be understood only and only in a one-sounding way. And the second lesson I think is important. 'Cause the first one, of course, has a follow-up. This is what Senator Jackowski was also talking about. It is about the second and then the third Silesian uprising, clearly won and incredibly strongly supporting our parallel diplomatic activities. It was associated with the ability to understand the concept of "battle" with the notion of diplomatic, very strong commitment to finally split Silesia against the German version saying that it is an undivided land, and therefore, since we have lost the plebiscite, it should be taken over by the German State to the greatest extent. The third Silesian uprising clearly answered the questions of the then decision-makers in Europe, showed that Poles are right that rules that could be imposed and could be reasonable in relation to the theoretical economic arguments, but unreasonable from the point of view of the idea of self-determination of nations, which was then one of the most important ideas governing reality, could not be rigidly followed. This is one lesson, but there is another lesson, ladies and gentlemen, very important. Wojciech Korfanty and the Polish Silesian people are Christian democrats. It is a very clear heritage of Polish attachment to the Church and to Catholicism as a set of values, which is very clearly connected with the understanding of Polishness. There would be no Polishness in Upper Silesia if it had not been deep in hearts for generations of Catholicism. This is a crazy important heritage, which again involves Wojciech Korfantego, who in the Second Republic was the leader of Christian Democracy. He was the one who entered the Morges Front at the end of his life in 1937, becoming one of the main leaders of the Labour Party, this great party, as it turned out in practice, which later co-founded Polish governments in exile and was the main support for Prime Minister Władysław Eugeniusz Sikorski. After the war, when Charles Popiel came to Poland to play Christian Democracy, he found, of course, in Upper Silesia, a great crowd of Poles who wanted to support him. And Bolesław Bierut threatened as a communist in 1945, in 1946. Silesians, not the influential population, but those living there and possibly returning from exile during the war. That if the Labour Party in Upper Silesia exceeds a certain number of members, it will be clearly resolved. Eventually, in 1946, this was the solution, and so it happened. But this was the clear assessment of Christian Democracy and the heritage of Christian Democracy, which was in Silesian people. This is, I think, also today a clue concerning the appreciation of the great heritage of Upper Silesia as a Polish land, which brought to our political culture, to our thinking about Poland very many significant attributes. On the one hand, the characteristics of ideology and on the other hand, With realism. These 2 paths of Polish heritage can be combined. It turns out that it is close to us and accessible against common courts. [[Time's up, Senator.]] Last sentence. Thank you again very much, Senator Panczyk-Podziej, for what she said about autonomy. Is Silesian autonomy really our desirable heritage in the Second Republic of Poland, or is it an inheritance which was more forced by the results of the Versailles Conference and the results of what we call a compromise? I suspend this question because the Upper Silesians themselves wanted to live in the Second Republic in the reality which was given them, i.e. with very broad autonomy. But at the same time we also know that those conditions which were created at the time were not the result of the will of the Polish state, the will of the whole nation, from the perspective of the capital, Warsaw, were only a decision imposed by the powers. And this is also worth remembering in the discourse between Silesia and Warsaw, in short. [[Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u68	Thank you. You'll be the last to speak to Senator Gavyd. I'm hoping the senator can fit in the limit.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u69	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There are moments, there is a time like this in the High House, when we should really remain silent, we should join with our ancestors who, by their will, their activity, their attachment to Silesian values, their patriotism, their respect for the other man, their family, the deep faith that the great Senator Professor Żaryn spoke of, caused this 1919 to be such a beginning, a difficult beginning of transition to motherhood and connection with her. These are the moments in which we remember all those who have dedicated their lives with this attitude, with their own blood, so that we can be together in Poland today. I would like to express my satisfaction here, and I am directing this to the authors of this resolution. I would also like to refer to the words, the beautiful words of Senator Maria Paniczyk-Pozdziej, with whom I strongly identify myself, because this Silesia is not simple, the whole set of attempts to freedom, to join Poland consists of a very difficult story about which my previous speakers have already said very clearly, it sounded very good here in the High House. Also my grandfather wore this stigmata with the letter P. Also, when my father was five years old, his absence caused the family to be trapped. But earlier, our participation in the Silesian uprising indicated that our pursuit, regardless of how it was assessed, the pursuit of our forefathers, indicated the right way. Today we are together here in the High House, and I am proud to be a Silesian Pole. Therefore, my presence here is not possible to analyze all historical issues, but to me it is personally such proof and a slope towards all these Silesians, our forefathers, who contributed their activities to the fact that we are in one strong Poland. That's what I wanted to emphasize very strongly here, and that's what I wanted to point out. I am proud to be able to appear here, before the High House today, pointing to all these very important historical events that in this period of 100 years of history have joined us in Poland. This was not really the case until 1922, but the years 1919, 1920, 1921, 3 uprisings, plebiscite and finally in 1922, the connection of most Silesian lands, not all, but most Silesian lands to Poland, cause that today, I want to emphasize it strongly, express my deep respect, pay tribute to all Silesians, all insurgents, who have dedicated our attitudes and activities, our dedication to life, to be together in strong Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u70	Thank you. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft resolution. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. We're moving on to communications now. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Senate, I would like to invite all members of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation to its meeting to be held today at 12.00 in room 176. The agenda is the election of a candidate for chairman of the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u72	Thank you. I'm declaring adjournment... [[One more announcement, Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry...]] One more announcement.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u73	I kindly inform you that the eighty-seventh meeting of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators will be held today at 13.20 in room 179. I invite the members of the committee very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u74	We're adjourned until 2:00 p.m. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 50 to 14 minutes 00]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the session. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point: the election of the chairman of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the consideration of this item as item twenty-fifth of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. [[There's no objection. We're not voting.]] Thank you. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. We proceed with the review of item 19 of the agenda: the Act amending the Police Act and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1154, and the report of the Commission In print No 1154 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Aleksander Potoj, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator. I'd like to invite you to the podium, and I'd like you to take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u76	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! It is always a great pleasure to present your point when your marshal leads the proceedings. [[Applause]] [[Thank you very much.]] And that's why please, God forbid I take it personally, my delicate attention, but for the second time during our Senate sitting. And yesterday, and today, at the last minute, there's a change that... Well, it could happen that I wouldn't be here. It was supposed to be a completely different point. Yesterday, under very strange circumstances, the I.P.N. Act jumped... [[On the other hand, on me...]] ...tonight's Police Act, so that at the hands of your marshal, but, God forbid, not to your marshal, I'd like to pay attention... [[I accept, Mr. Senator, I understand.]] ...that it could be organized a little better. Thank you very much. [[Good.]] Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The purpose of the bill submitted to the Senate is to amend the laws governing the professional status of uniformed officers in so far as it allows legal rehabilitation and the return to the acquitted service in criminal proceedings of an officer who has been discharged from the service because of the disciplinary penalty for expulsion from the service for an act which at the same time fulfils the signs of criminal offence and disciplinary misconduct. The bill submitted to us today was from the beginning a senate project, which implemented the demands contained in the individual petition submitted to the Senate on 1 February 2017. According to the current wording of the article. 135r paragraph. 5 of the Police Act it was impossible to resume disciplinary proceedings after 5 years from the date of the disciplinary decision, which did not take into account the realities of the functioning of the Polish justice system, and especially that criminal proceedings often take place for more than 5 years. In the case of the person who filed the petition, the criminal trial ended with a final acquittal only after 12 years. In this situation, the provision preventing the renewal of disciplinary proceedings due to the expiry of 5 years obviously undermined the opportunity of the person to be rehabilitated and, without a doubt, violated the right to protect the reputation and good name of the acquitted policeman. The judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 14 June 2016 in which the Constitutional Tribunal held that the above-mentioned Article was important in the drafting of the bill of opinion. 135r of the Police Act Only the one who set a five-year time limit for the reopening of proceedings Although it does not infringe the Constitution, such a decision was the result of an overly narrow range of appeals. The Court stated in the explanatory memorandum that the legislator should consider whether, if a disciplinary penalty is a substitute for a criminal penalty or a criminal measure, it would not be desirable to introduce a structure similar to that adopted in criminal proceedings for the renewal of proceedings limited in time only in the event of a reopening of proceedings to the detriment of the accused. And, please, the High House, the Senate in its initiative, which is precisely the result of this petition, which I was just talking about, has made such changes. In the Seym, this law was quite strongly passed by the Members, and in this quite covetous form it came back to us. At the committee meeting as a result of a very thorough and a very comprehensive analysis of our lawyers from the Legislative Office have been proposed to us six amendments and all of them have been accepted, except that the first amendment has been adopted unanimously; amendment two. In the case of amendment 3 5 the senators were in favour, no one was against, the rest abstained; the fourth was unanimously adopted; in the case of amendment 5 6 the senators were in favour, no one was against, the other senators abstained and the sixth amendment was adopted unanimously. The committee therefore recommends that the High House adopt this law and six amendments, which have been approved by the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u77	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Does anyone want to ask the senator a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. The bill was introduced by the Senate. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administration has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have Minister Renata Szczech, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. Would the Minister like to speak? Yes? You're welcome, Minister, come to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u78	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the opinion of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, the validity of this regulation is not questionable. These regulations in the current form do not take into account the realities of the Polish justice system. The importance of the raised issue for the protection of the rights of officers is also borne out by your inquiries to our department. Therefore, I will repeat this once again, in response to these expectations, the draft regulations were extended to other services, i.e. during the parliamentary work on the initiative of the government. for services officers subordinate to the minister to the coordinator of special services, and at the initiative of the Polish Sejm Also on officers of the Marshal's Guard. The proposed changes provide for the possibility of reopening the final conclusion of disciplinary proceedings. If the same criminal, criminal or criminal proceedings have been completed by a final acquittal or a decision to terminate the proceedings. In the course of the work of the emergency sub-committee, measures were taken to harmonise the grounds for the remission of criminal proceedings, assuming that they cover the circumstances set out in Article. 17 §1 point 1 or point 2 of the Commercial Code. or in Article. 5 §1 (1) or (2) of the Code of Conduct in Criminal Matters. I wanted to add these very important points. To conclude, I would like to thank you very much for working effectively on a project that has been designed to achieve optimal and, where possible, coherent solutions for all services, taking into account their specific characteristics. Once again, I stress that the proposed solutions deserve full support, as they increase the standard of protection of the rights of officers, with the aim of protecting their good opinion. I therefore request that the project be adopted over the divisions. At the same time, referring to the amendments tabled during the work of the Committee on Human Rights, the rule of law and the Petitions, I would like to say that in the opinion of the Ministry, two of them deserve support, i.e. an amendment concerning the State Fire Service and a clarification of the procedure for reopening this formation and an amendment concerning the harmonisation of the provisions of the Prison Service Act, together with the arrangements adopted for services under the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration. However, the amendment proposed in relation to the Marshal's Guard Act cannot be accepted, since the wording of the proposed provision is similar to those adopted in other services. These are among others. Article 2 Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 8 Police Act, Art. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Border Guard Act, Art. 22 Act on Military Gendarmery and Military Ordering Authorities, Art. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 10 CBA Act, Art. Article 23 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 10 Act on the ABW and the Intelligence Agency, Art. 135 of the National Tax Administration Act. Thus, the introduction of the standards already provided for in these implementing acts would result in inconsistencies, as I raised at the outset. In addition to the actions challenged by the Senate's Legislative Office, the regulation also regulates the way in which other improvements are to be carried out, including among others. issuing orders, legitising and recognising persons or requesting the necessary assistance. The failure to comply with the regulation will not result in these activities not being carried out, as the right of officers of the Marshal's Guard to implement them results from the existing Marshal's Guard Act, not from the proposed regulation. The lack of determination will certainly introduce a variety of procedures in terms of their implementation and the risk of abuse. During the meeting of the committee, a representative of the Minister for Special Services objected to the proposal to harmonise the proposed arrangements concerning the Internal Security Agency and the Intelligence Agency, as well as the Act on the Central Anti-Corruption Office, which allowed disciplinary proceedings to resume 10 years after a disciplinary decision was enforced, which was terminated by a final decision on expulsion from the service. The project's solutions are in line with the government's position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u79	Thank you very much, Minister. Wait a minute, because perhaps the senators will have questions. Does anyone have a question for the Minister? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Renata Pzczech: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. I'd like to speak with Senator Aleksander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u80	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm asking my colleagues not to confuse my party t-shirt, but tonight I'm going overboard because that was the committee's decision. He was supposed to report it in the first version of Senator Silence. I think he'd sign off on everything I'm about to say. And I would like to say the following. As always, I enjoyed working with the Minister, so now What do I have to say? What she just said, I don't agree fundamentally, just as the committee didn't agree, and I'll repeat that, over and over the divisions. The third amendment is an outcast by your special service coordinator, for which a long time, in an absolutely incomprehensible way, was argued by his colleague, a representative who came and represented your coordinator. I have to say, it's been a long time since I've heard anything like that, no argument at all. Because, dear colleagues, since the petition comes from such a reality that the citizen has not been able to receive a judgment in court for 12 years, and therefore the five-year time limit for him to resume proceedings has passed, and we are saying, no, it is wrong, the citizen should always have the opportunity, because how this could harm the state... If, after 12 years of criminal proceedings, he turns out to be innocent, then he must have the right to go and resume the proceedings... [[Discipline.]] ...of course disciplinary action so he can pursue his rights. But all of a sudden, for some completely unknown reason, we're gonna throw three officers out of bounds. Well, I asked three times the department rep, what's the ratio of legis of why it's suddenly ten years old, and in all the other departments... I didn't get any logical answers. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. It's not very logical to say that these are special services. Well, what does one have to do with the other? After all, because a citizen who has been acquitted will have the right to pursue his rights in disciplinary proceedings, there is no threat to the service. This position is entirely unwise and therefore by a majority of committees. I say once again: Senators and, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, 2 groups were rejected. Therefore, I ask the High House to defend our idea. Because it was a senate idea, worked out with us, and under strange circumstances in the lower chamber, solutions were thrown into it, which had nothing to do with our intention at all. This is the first case. The second point is the amendment concerning the Marshal's Guard. We didn't have any, but that's no doubt. It also reflects the outcome of the vote in committee. That it is not in line with our legal order to delegate such powers to the Regulation. This is the firm position of our Legislative Office, which we supported. We had doubts, and we accepted in the first version the amendment by Marshal Sewerinski in this regard, we voted for it, but later, as we sat down and talked to the representative of the Legislative Bureau... I have the authority to say that we have agreed to restore this amendment in this version, which was proposed by the Legislative Bureau. I therefore make such an amendment, Mrs Marshal. Thank you very much. Once again, I ask the High House to trust the Human Rights Committee and petitions and to vote in accordance with the recommendation of this committee. If Members insist on theirs, they still have the opportunity to change it. Really, for once in our lives in this term of office, let us vote as our conscience and our knowledge allow us to vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u81	Thank you, Senator. Corrections... [[Yes, they are. You want me to sign, right?]] Of course. [[Thank you.]] Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that you have tabled proposals of a legislative nature in writing by Senator Alexander Pociej. The discussion is closed. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of the item on the 20th agenda: the Act on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the International Criminal Police Organisation of Interpol concerning privileges and immunities during 47. The European Regional Conference, signed in Lyon on 9 April 2019. The text of the Act in print 1162, and the Commission's reports in print 1162 A and 1162 B. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Dorota Czudowska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u82	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, the Act on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the International Criminal Police Organisation The European Regional Conference, signed in Lyon on 9 April 2019. The Commission was working on this bill the day before yesterday, on 7 May. The aim of the agreement is to ensure the proper preparation and conduct of the conference, which will take place in Poland from 29 to 31 May in Katowice, a conference of the International Criminal Police Organisation. This law is necessary in order to ensure that all participants in this conference receive visas related to their departure to Poland, which are to be free of charge in accordance with the agreements and regulations in force in previous conferences. It is also a question of granting organisations and their employees, for the duration of a conference of certain privileges and immunities which are customarily granted to members of international organisations, of guaranteeing the possibility of receiving and holding funds in foreign currencies and free making transfers in Poland without being subject to financial control, as well as the exemption from customs duties of the materials necessary for the holding of the conference and the provision of insurance protection for any damage. The privileges we grant to the members of the conference will be valid for 60 days. This is due to the experience of previous conferences. The conference itself lasts three days, but formalities, i.e. The preparation of reports, which are related to the conference, the carriage of luggage and materials, takes much longer. The Act is a law created for this particular event. The privileges and immunities which we confer on this law are one-off, granted to a limited extent and exclusively for the purposes of 47. European Interpol Regional Conference. I think we're all aware that this is a major event. Poland will host another great international conference. Katowice has been selected as a city tested for previous great events. The law does not raise any legislative objections, it is compatible with European Union law. The Commission adopted it unanimously. On behalf of the committee, I ask the Senate to adopt a law without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u83	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Andrzej Pajak, to submit a report to the committee. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u84	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration, the Act on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the International Criminal Police Organisation.Interpol concerning privileges and immunities during 47. The European Regional Conference, signed in Lyon on 9 April 2019. What is written in this bill was very nice and competently discussed by my esteemed previous speaker. I'm not gonna say it again. The bill we're adopting is very, very short. It gives its consent to what... It's written in this bill. It concerns what will be in Poland during the conference in Katowice. It must be adopted at the time of this conference. The discussion was very brief, it can be said that little was said in this discussion. The Minister explained everything very briefly. There's full agreement on the committee's part. The Commission unanimously supported the adoption of the law. During a brief discussion, we learned such interesting things that... I can serve it. As far as Interpol is concerned, he's bringing together the criminal police from 194 countries. I think it's rare for any organization to bring together the police from so many countries. The conference in Katowice will be attended by representatives of about 50 countries. On the shoulders mostly Polish Police is to prepare and organize it in the most appropriate way. There was a question from Senator Flork about whether it would be possible to adopt such a universal law concerning all the conferences that are organized in Poland. The point was to make it all part of the same bill. It was clear from the Minister's reply that it could not be done in such a general way that at any such conference the bill must be deliberately adopted. Hence the bill is adopted only on time and for the course of the conference, which will be in Katowice. On behalf of the committee, I ask for this law, which, as I have already mentioned, was adopted unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u85	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would anyone like to ask such a question? No. Thank you, rapporteurs. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have ministers with us: Ms Renata Szczech, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, and Minister Piotr Wawrzyk, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Would any of you senators like to ask the ministers a question? Senator Aleksander Pociej. Here you go, which one of your ministers are you asking? I'd like an indication, please. [[The Minister of Foreign Affairs.]] Minister, I'd like to invite you to the podium. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, quite recently we had a very large event, this conference on the Middle East I don't remember us ever making that kind of specials. Could you tell me why such a law is necessary in this particular case? [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u87	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u88	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! High Senate! As the senator probably knows, in the case of a conference of a diplomatic nature, there is no specialization. The specifications shall be carried out in the case of conferences organised within the framework of international organisations. That's why, Senator, as you probably know, there was a COP24 bill and that's why there's a Interpol bill now. If a conference is being prepared within other organisations, it will also be necessary. But if this is just a conference at the highest political level, it is not required In accordance with Polish law, with the Polish constitution To carry out specific specialist laws. Until now, it's always been as you know. You're not a senator from now on, so I guess it's obvious.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u89	Are there any further questions for the Minister? If there isn't, thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Aleksander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u90	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Not so much this event or this bill tells me to take the floor as I would like to share with the High House some information that comes from my work in the Council of Europe, because it is quite fun for me. On the one hand, we are to host the most important police officers in the world who come here, so we are making a special bill to protect them from some, I understand, hostile actions by our judicial authorities. I understand that this could somehow be translated by the arrest of Interpol officers in China. On the other hand, I would like to draw the attention of the senators, especially those who are in our human rights committee, to the fact that, in a general way, and this has already become a major international problem, Interpol's activities are abused by states which thus fight against opponents who fight against their own citizens or people who oppose different regimes. Interpol's actions, which are of course very important because they allow prosecution of crimes on international grounds, are unfortunately increasingly abused, e.g. There has been a recent Moldovan problem, and there is also a problem concerning Turkey. You could multiply the countries that are listed as wanted by Interpol... Interpol is currently working on some changes that should allow them to filter, but has not yet led to them. It is a constant problem that opponents are accused of criminal offences, common and are arrested in connection with their inclusion on Interpol's list. Very often it takes six months, one year, before such a delinquent shows that it is purely political persecution and will be released from custody. I believe that the High House should have information about this in the context of this conference, which is organised in Katowice, in particular the members of the Human Rights Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u91	Thank you, Senator. Is there anyone else in the room for discussion? No. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the item on the 21st agenda: the Act on ratification of the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and Japan, on the other hand, drawn up in Tokyo on 17 July 2018. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1157, and the report of the Commission In print No 1157 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Jarosław Oremski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u92	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In 1991, the European Community signed an agreement with Japan. The aim of the current agreement is to deepen cooperation and treat Japan as a strategic partner of the European Union. At the same time it is not an economic agreement, this economic agreement, the Economic Partnership Agreement, EPA, is currently being negotiated. The purpose of this agreement is to define certain fields of cooperation between the European Union and Japan, which should be strengthened. It is about cooperation related to climate change, sanitary and phytosanitary issues, research, innovation and information society, education, culture, tourism, energy and transport. An important element of this agreement, if compared to an agreement 28 years ago, is the establishment of a Joint Committee as a body composed of representatives of the parties, which will somehow monitor this cooperation. This is not a contract that will translate directly into some very far-reaching concrete. She is to be a frame and an incentive to work more closely with Japan. The agreement was signed in Tokyo for the previous emperor, 17 July 2018. National activity depends on the benefits it will bring. The agreement does not directly entail any financial, organisational and legal consequences. The Commission recommends the adoption of a law.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u93	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may ask questions to the rapporteur. Are there any such questions? Mr. Senator Rulewski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u94	Senator rapporteur, we are talking about a great policy, although without details, but about a great policy in which Poland, due to its membership in the European Union, will participate, and not as a medium-sized country in the Union. My question is this: was the committee meeting discussing the issue of possible repercussions or reaction of other great players, above all of course economic ones such as the United States, China? By the way, the Polish Government has announced that China is also a strategic partner. But there are differences of opinion between China and Japan or the United States in this triangle. So this is the question: where will we be in this game of colossals as the Union and as Poland? Were these subjects analyzed?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u95	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u96	Mr. Senator, I must disappoint you. The deliberations on this point were shorter than the length of the question. I was afraid that this would be a 1980 question: do we have a chance to be the second Japan? It would also be difficult for me and I would also have to say that this was not the subject of the discussion. But let's not get into this whole geostrategic and economic game in the world. I would say this: I think that the economic treaty will be more important in the European Union's relations with Japan, because there will be all these details that can facilitate or hinder possible cooperation. How do you read this document and justify it... There is a reference to a certain civilization unity, nevertheless, and to a system of values that operates in the European Union and Japan, at least after World War II. And in this sense it is an attempt to consolidate, I think, the thought of democracy, the free market in relation to other powers that are already stronger than Japan. Well, Japan in the 1980s or early 1990s was the second economic power and a huge number of economists proved scientifically that Japan would jump the United States any moment now. But right now, the situation is different. Nevertheless, it is a powerful partner and certainly from the perspective of the Union, negotiations offer an opportunity to negotiate better conditions for doing business. Of course, the question is whether it will be better conditions for the biggest corporate players in Europe, or whether it will be a space for small and medium-sized business, which is rather the domain of the Polish economy. Yeah, but it's a matter of how we're gonna fill it in later. And as for China's game .. Russia.. U.S. and others, I'd like to invite you for coffee next door... [[Joy in the Chamber]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u97	Are there any more questions for the Senator of the rapporteur? There isn't. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Is the representative of the government, Minister Piotr Wawrzyk, willing to speak on the matter? He's not going to. Thank you very much. The current senators may submit questions to the representative of the government relating to the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Rulewski. There you go. Minister, you're welcome to join me in the podium. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u98	Minister, if you've listened to my question... [[Microphone.]] I repeat them. And in advance, I will also accept your invitation for coffee, but with a cookie, because the government is richer than Senator Oremski. And please don't comment that there is no other Japan. Half of such important products in Poland are Japanese products, i.e. we have the second Japan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u99	Does the Minister want to... [[And the question?]] [[Well, there was a repeat question at first...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u100	So, as I understand it, it's a question of how other players react. [[Yeah, the players...]] We don't know anything about such negative reactions from other players as a government. Negotiations have been conducted by the European Union on the basis of a mandate given by the Member States. And this agreement was first subject to approval by the Member States in the form of a Council of the European Union, and now ratification procedures are being carried out in the Member States. From a content point of view, as the senator said, these economic issues do not play a key role here. Here, the most important thing is cooperation in the geopolitical dimension. This may be the result of this, let's call it economical, or actually no reaction from other players or world powers.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u101	Are there any further questions for the Minister? [[Yeah, one more thing.]] Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u102	Minister, there's no denying that our government I don't judge that. He's interested in some geopolitical, which is based on the great economy, on the great... It's a silk trail. Here we are even talking directly about technical solutions, about where the railway port will be. Isn't that in contrast to this agreement? Is it related... isn't there a negative reaction or overlap here...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u103	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u104	None of the partners are involved in these two cases.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u105	Are there any further questions for the Minister? [[There isn't.]] If there isn't, thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Piotr Wawrzyk: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. Senator Aleksander Pociej will be the first to speak. [[What are you...]] [[I'm doing statistics. And the doctor said to walk.]] [[Voice from the room: Second Japan.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u106	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll be very brief. I was inspired by Senator Oremski, whose statement resists all Eurosceptics, whether here, in the Chamber or in the country. Well, he told us the truth, which should be obvious to us: that there is a lot of force. And what he said about how it would be easier for us to discuss certain issues, to negotiate when we act as a European Union, that is pure truth. And I'd like to see that from the senator's speech... that it sounds very strong. And the second topic is purely personal. I would like to say that as vice-president of the Senate Group of Polish-Japanese friendships, I am very pleased that this law has been passed. There are only 2 special groups of friendships: Polish-French and Polish-Japanese. We've been visiting a group of counselors lately because that's the name of the Japanese senators. We made them here in Warsaw. Well, I would also like to recall a wonderful moment for one of our colleagues here, because the President of this group, Marshal Seweryński, has recently been awarded a medal at the Japanese Embassy. The senator taught in Japan for many years. He knows this country so well. And for activities, among others. In the bilateral world, the Japanese government has awarded it. I don't remember who was there, but there was a beautiful ceremony at the Japanese Embassy. And that's what I'd like to congratulate the marshal. Thank you very much. [[Bravo for the marshal!]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u107	Thank you very much. Let me inform you that the list of debaters has already been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Polish Charter. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1156, and the report of the Commission − in print No 1156 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad, Senator Arthur Warzocha, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u108	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The draft amendment to the Polish Charter Act of September 2007 was adopted by the Sejm on 12 April 2007. and 15 April to the Senate of the Republic of Poland. The main objective of this amendment is to extend the scope of the Act to all persons of Polish origin resident abroad. It is worth recalling that the Act in its current wording concerns those Polish people who admit to Polish identity and have Polish roots, who lived in the former republics of the Soviet Union, that is, in both the European and Asian parts. So practically those Poles who live east of the Polish borders. In view of the fact that for many years we have heard the voices of Polish people from all over the world - I mean this part of our compatriots who live in the wider Western world - about the proposal to extend the scope of this law to the whole world, the applicant, I believe, has come to the conclusion that the scope of this law should be extended to all those citizens of other countries who do not have Polish citizenship and who live outside the country and who admit to the Polish nationality, and who want to express it by obtaining or acquiring this document in the form of a Pole's Charter. The consequence of the changes which were signalled in the first part of this statement is the amendment of the preamble to the Act in Article. 1 in item 1. Until now, the law has the name of the council that deals with the affairs of Poles abroad, as follows: "The Council for Poles in the East." Because, as I mentioned earlier, the change will already apply to all our compatriots living outside the country, it is its consequence. will also change the name of this council to the Council for Poles outside the Country Borders, in Article. 1 in item 3. Then there will be an extension of the time limit by which the competent authorities are required to provide information on whether the applicant for the Polish Charter is faced with the circumstances set out in the provisions of the Act which are in favour of refusing to grant the Polish Charter. A 30-day time limit has also been set for a decision on the granting of the Pole Charter by the authorities authorised to do so. I have already discussed the course of legislative work in a nutshell. What is important is what happened at the meeting of our committee, the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad the day before yesterday, 7 May. The Commission recommends that the High Senate adopt this law together with the amendments voted by the committee. It is worth adding that these changes have been accepted by the applicant and present here in the Chamber of Minister Michał Dworczyk, the head of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers. And so: the committee recommends that in the article. 1 in point 2, in point (a) (b) paragraph 2. 2 is replaced by the following: The Polish Charter may be granted to a person who does not apply for the Polish Charter on the day of his application for the Polish Charter and on the day of his granting of the Polish citizenship card or who does not have a permanent residence permit in the territory of the Republic of Poland, or who has the status of a stateless person. Lithium shall be added. c the following paragraph shall be deleted: 4. ♪ Some modification ♪ It was a proposal from Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. They have also been subject to paragraph 1. 3 and 4 in Article 4 19a of the Act in question, concerning the work of the authorities empowered to issue a decision on the award of a document under the name of the Polish Charter. The Commission has also proposed that Article. The following wording shall be added: "Applications in cases for the award and annulment of the Polish Charter initiated and not completed before the date of entry into force of the Act shall be carried out on the basis of existing provisions. Ladies and gentlemen, the Legislative Office also proposed an amendment which was not accepted by the committee, but was taken over by the vice-president of our committee, Senator Grażyna Sztark. This amendment concerns the issuing of a notice under the Polish Charter Act. The Legislative Office has made such a remark that the rules of temporary enforcement laid down in the principles of legislative technique concern implementing acts. They don't have to be published in the form of a notice... The only implementing acts are regulations, but the notice is not a normative act, so the amendment of the provision of the law does not affect its validity. The senators argued that this proposal was rejected by the Legislative Office with such arguments that access to information for our fellow countrymen who live outside the Republic of Poland is different and at least in some places may be difficult, so it will certainly not harm the issuing of such a notice. Ladies and gentlemen, it is worth recalling that the Polish Charter, which was amended in this parliamentary term, adopted by the Sejm and the Senate and signed by the President... that our proposals for amendment and the amendment were very well adopted by the subject of our actions, i.e. Poles living outside the country, as well as Polonia. It may also be worth recalling that the issue of this document involves some improvements concerning the issuance of permanent residence permits and the receipt of 12 calendar months of Polish citizenship during the year. It's a significant improvement. In the case of young people, this document authorises certain facilitations and reliefs in terms of learning, education and study in the territory of the Republic of Poland. There are also some facilities for initiating business activity by nationals of other countries with the Polish Charter, and the right to use e.g. from communication discounts in terms of means of public transport. By updating this bill, we meet, as I said earlier, the expectations of our fellow countrymen. It is worth recalling a number that involves Polonia and Poles living abroad. We estimate that more than 20 million people of Polish origin live outside our country, people who also admit to Polish roots and those who work to maintain their Polish identity, their and their closest ones, also generations who follow them, raise them in the spirit of Polishness, teach them their native language. The Polish state of these activities, among others. through the Senate, and perhaps primarily through the Senate, supports as much as possible. It follows from the assurances made by Minister Michał Dworczyk, the head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister's Office, that this amendment will not have any financial consequences, because the questions were raised during the committee meeting. Therefore, as I said at the outset, I recommend that you adopt this law on behalf of the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u109	At present, the senators may submit questions to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question? Senator Hare. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u110	Thank you very much. I have a question about the last sentence, that it won't cost any money. In my view, at least the costs of strengthening our consular posts should be incurred, as we expect a large number of people to be interested in this. There are already some problems with deadlines, the Poles' Charter is waiting for a long time. Maybe that's more of a question for the ministry. Anyway, I'm asking you for an answer. Come on. For what period is the card issued? Are there any rules in there? I'm asking because we're talking about the annulment... [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] And then there's the next question. Some Poles who went abroad in previous years, in order to obtain citizenship of a given country in which they obtained the right of residence, had to give up Polish citizenship. Are they also concerned with the possibility of obtaining a Pole's Card? Please answer, for example, the example of Germany. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u111	Mr. Senator, I'd like a brief answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u112	Thank you very much. I do not know if I will be able to answer all the questions, because I am not convinced either, but it is already the Minister present in the Chamber who will answer whether the Office of the President of the Council of Ministers has detailed knowledge of the cast of Polish consular posts, which are authorized to accept applications and issue documents. Mrs Senator, it is also worth noting that we, previously amending the law, have created the possibility to accept applications also by the voivodship offices in Poland. It was a certain procedure, let's say, politically, because of one of the countries where there seems to be a lot of Kart Poles. And this solution works. State institutions or consulates cannot afford to delay the issuing of this document because the time limit from the adoption of the application to the issue of the document is governed by the law. We assume that, after the amendment, there will be 30 days for the adoption of this decision and the offices, the consulates will have to fit within that deadline. The card is issued indefinitely... [[For 10 years.]] For 10 years. Yeah, yeah, like I.D. for 10 years. As far as citizenship is concerned, the Polish Charter, as I mentioned, can only be applied for by a person who does not have Polish citizenship, so as I understand... [[In this case, which I served, too...]] If I understand the provisions of this law correctly, then this example, which the senator has provided, is also covered.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u113	You're asking Senator Hare a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u114	I would like to ask if the Polish Charter entitles us to take part in presidential, parliamentary elections.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u115	No, he doesn't authorize the presidential election or the parliamentary election. The Pole's card is a declaration... [[Belongs to the nation.]] ...belongings to the Polish people. This does not involve the acquisition of civil rights.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u116	Are there any more questions for the Senator rapporteur? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. Minister Michał Dworczyk was authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work in the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers. Would the Minister like to speak? Come on up to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I can only add one sentence to the words of the rapporteur. In fact, today's amendment is back to the original version of the Polish Charter Act. Originally, in 2006, when we worked on this project, the Polish Charter was to apply worldwide. As a result of the reservations made at that time by the Ministry of Finance, this was limited only to the sites of the former Soviet Union. Today, giving the opportunity to all Poles around the world, regardless of the country and continent where they live, to apply for this document, we return to the original version. I ask the High House to support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u118	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may ask questions to a government representative. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question? Mr. Senator Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u119	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The question is related to that question you asked Senator Hare. That is, do you not think that it would be good to add the possession of Polish citizenship to the conditions which determine the granting of the Polish Charter? [[There's a waiver...]] If a person who, due to the fact that the country in which he resides requires the surrender of Polish citizenship, simply resigned from this citizenship and would like to have a document confirming his relationship with the Polish people... Shouldn't that be the premise of having a prior citizenship, suppose, in some time frame? That's the first line. The second is more general. Well, in several laws, which we were dealing with here, there was a category concerning the possession of only Polish citizenship. It's about officials, it's about judges, it's about officers of some services. The question is this, and it's kind of a directional question. Minister, shouldn't exclusive Polish citizenship be introduced? At the moment, Polish law recognizes at the same time... A Polish citizen with a nationality of another country is not treated as a citizen of that other country, but as a Polish citizen. Shouldn't there be a solution that you can only have one citizenship, as is the case in other countries in Europe? Then the Polish Charter and its extension to the whole world would be particularly important.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u120	Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u121	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, as far as the grounds are concerned, I can't agree with you. As far as we can discuss, speaking of such premises, about Europe, all of South America, where there are more than 2 million people admitting to Polish origin... [[In Brazil alone, there's...]] Yeah, you're right, Senator, the most important thing is Brazil, of course, but they're also in Argentina, and in other countries. Most of these people are descendants of people who emigrated at the turn of the 19th and 20th centuries. Their ancestors never had Polish citizenship, because then there was no independent Republic of Poland. Therefore, the whole big group would be excluded, deprived of the possibility of having a document, which is the Polish Charter. Regarding the exclusiveness of Polish citizenship, this is a question rather to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. In Poland there is a law which always treats Polish citizenship in an overriding way. If someone has 2 or 3 citizenship, but is a Polish citizen, then if they commit e.g. offence or crime in Poland, it is treated as a Polish citizen. Of course, you could think about a solution like this. in Lithuania, where there is a ban I have two citizenships, but I don't know anything about this kind of work that goes on in the government. As I said at the outset, this is more a question for the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u122	Question... [[If I may, Mr. Marshal, ask...]] Yes. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u123	As far as the first question is concerned, it was not about excluding those conditions which are at the moment, but about an additional condition. For this category of persons who were forced to resign from Polish citizenship. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Michał Dworczyk: I do not understand the question.]] The fact that they have this citizenship already indicates that they are Poles. Therefore, they do not have to go into the whole cycle of proving, searching for ancestors, because this is, sorry, a little pointless, just when they were forced to give up or resign from Polish citizenship themselves... Well, couldn't they just have the right to obtain a Polish Charter, at least as a document, I would say, a heart, expressing feelings, or perhaps less rights?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u124	I'm so sorry, Mr. Senator, I didn't understand the question. [[Me neither.]] [[Then answer that question now as you understand it.]] I understood initially that you were asking for inclusion in the conditions on the basis of which the Polish card appears, such an indication that the person who applied for the card had to prove that she or her ancestors had Polish citizenship. In answer to this question, I explained why it would be a bad idea in my opinion. But if the senator would like to repeat that question again, because I didn't understand him...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u125	Good. We have the contents of the bill that is at the moment. The point is to add to the conditions, but as an alternative, i.e. here it would be a "or," a condition of having previously Polish citizenship, perhaps at some time earlier. [[They were forced to...]] So the point is that the person does not have to prove a relationship with Polishness, of course, if he had such a relationship because he was a Polish citizen and resigned from it. It's obvious, Minister. Am I making myself clear right now?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u126	I do now. [[Good.]] I can only say, Mr. Senator, that the bill has been passed in the way you have. [[Yes, of course.]] As for the reasons concerning who can be awarded the Polish Charter, in recent years there have been no work at all. I think if the High House has any ideas about this, it would be best to formulate its own idea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u127	The question is, Senator Żaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u128	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question relating to one of the threads of our discussion in the committee, and even two of these threads. One. However, I was impressed at the time by the hearing of the Supreme Audit Chamber's report on practical possibilities for the implementation of the Polish Charter in the East by the MFA consulates. I would like to hear from the Minister such a declaration, that if within a few months it would turn out that, however, the influx of these requests to consulates in the wider Western world is so large that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is unable to deal with them in this staff set which is at the moment, they will be on a very fast path to remedy this. Because the worst situation that can happen is that Poles living outside the country or people of Polish origin will want to apply for the Polish Charter, and we will culturally, because it will be a question of the culture of the Polish state, we will not be able to satisfy these efforts. I ask for such a declaration. And the second question, also related to our discussion in committee. I will repeat them because I would very much like the Polish minister to use such imagination. Is this Polish Charter, extended to the whole world, some potential instrument to increase the activity of Polish people and Poles living outside the country in terms of impact on the Polish state? I am, of course, talking about the future constitutional changes concerning the vote and the right to participate in this vote in the parliament of the Polish state of these Poles, of those who are outside the country and who could also have their own senators, maybe their own Members in the future, as is the case in some countries, e.g. Postcolonial.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u129	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u130	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Yes, of course I can make such a declaration. After the first quarter, in which the law will already operate, we will see whether there are really increased needs in terms of the number of consular posts. If it turns out they will, then of course I'm sure of that. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs will take this need into account in the 2020 budget. As far as question two is concerned, the government has no right of initiative to change the constitution. This Upper House or the Sejm could take such an initiative. But if I'm going to answer privately, I can say that I absolutely agree with the senator. I, too, would like the Polish diaspora, which is very numerous all over the world, to have the opportunity to choose its representatives for the parliament of the Republic of Poland. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u131	The question you're asking is Senator Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u132	Thank you very much. Me in addition, because I caused this topic a short time to issue the Polish Charter and the possibilities of consulates. I very much regret that this problem has not been put on the agenda of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, of which I am a member, because we, having contacts on an ongoing basis, already today know that in some countries, i.e.. where there are most Poles seeking the Polish Charter, the consulates will not be able to handle it. And we really want this to work out well, because this is the realization of the idea of reaching out to those to whom the Polish state had not been asked in this way to encourage them to participate in Poland's life. And the other thing. I'd like to ask the Minister to join this voivodship office. We know very well that voivodship offices have more and more tasks, and unfortunately workers there do not earn the best, in short. Couldn't a hot one be hired for this period, e.g. For a certain period of time, a few people who would take care of this case so that it would go smoothly? I'm asking you to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u133	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mrs. Senator, as far as voivodeship offices are concerned, this can be done without amending the law, because the law already provides that under the Council of Ministers regulation As I recall, the Council of Ministers, not the President of the Council of Ministers It is possible to authorise voivodships in individual voivodships to accept documents and issue the Pole's Card. At the moment this is the case when it comes to Belarusian citizens applying for the Polish Charter. So if it's necessary, of course it won't be a problem. But I don't really believe it's gonna be necessary. Because let's try to imagine who from South America could apply for the Polish Charter in Poland. [[Students.]] Yeah, well, maybe some students... But I think such cases will be absolutely isolated. However, I stress what I already said at the meeting of the Senate Committee, i.e. if it turned out that there would really be a great interest in this matter in Polish consulates, e.g. in South America or the United States, then we will respond flexibly. But we do not foresee this because a completely different situation took place in the countries of the former Soviet Union in 2007, when the Polish Charter Act was passed, and a completely different situation is taking place today in Brazil, in the United States or in other countries of Western Europe, which in a few months' time will take effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u135	You're asking Senator Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question for you. I thought the amendment of the law was a very good direction, but I have a question: does the state administration have any indicative number, some simulation or predictions indicating how many people are potentially interested in obtaining the Polish Charter? I'm asking you this because there's a wide range of people here who can apply for it. Is there any data on this? Because in fact there can be such a situation, that for example. Argentinean citizens, but those who never had Polish citizenship because they are descendants of the second or third generation, or Brazilian citizens O, there may be more such Poles They will be interested in obtaining the Polish Charter as a kind of first step to obtain Polish citizenship in the future, which at the same time would mean the citizenship of the European Union, giving the opportunity to move around the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u137	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, there's no such estimate. Unlike the conversation and feeling of employees of Polish diplomatic institutions abroad, such estimates cannot be made. We do not even know exactly how many people have Polish origins. It was exactly the same when it came to the adoption of this law in 2007. It's the same today. Well, we can rely on the statistical data that we know, and which everyone can verify even in Wikipedia, but we don't have any indication that there's going to be so many people in Argentina in the first year, and that's that in Brazil. We know that people interested in the Polish Charter come to our consular and diplomatic offices in Western Europe and in both Americas, but they are rather isolated cases, and we do not think that the influx of these applications is massive. If that were the case, we would be very pleased to be disappointed, and then we would react immediately, strengthening the facilities, supplementing them with consular posts.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u139	The question is, Senator Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u140	Minister, this is a question. A little by the subject, I'm sorry about that, but you said a few sentences yourself. You endorsed the idea, the Senate initiative to appoint two senators to vote for Eastern and Western Polonia. Indeed, such solutions, as you said, are in some countries. But there are also many countries where it is enough that you live six months or a year outside the country to not have Even though you're a citizen No right to vote in your country at all. And the reason is that if someone breaks the economic bond, the bond of residence, it flows a little away from the mainstream, and his opinion is already the view of the person looking away, not the citizen. And I'd like to ask you where you see it plus a solution like that. Especially since the Senate drowned the project with its own hands, because we came to the conclusion that it was not the happiest and wisest project.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u141	Please. [[And that it contains so many contradictions that you can't do something like this.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u142	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I can answer you as follows. In 2007 the Marshal's staff submitted drafts of several Polish laws prepared at the Prime Minister's office by an inter-ministerial team, which I was vice-president at the time. Among them was a law that provided for additional foreign districts. On the basis of the Constitution in force, it was then possible to vote only for people who have Polish citizenship, but were created foreign districts, from which 2 senators and 3 Members were to be elected. This project, due to its shorter term in 2007, was not dealt with by Parliament. My positive position, both then and today, is that Poles form a national community that is not limited to people living in the Republic of Poland and it is worth exploiting the potential of our compatriots all over the world. And that's the reason and the answer to your question. Of course, you're right, there are various examples of solutions in different countries. This is actually a political decision. So if you're asking the government's position on this, I'll say there's no government's position on this. If you are asking about the position of Michał Dworczyk, who is also a Member of the Parliament of the Republic of Poland, then I have just presented them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u143	You're asking Senator Gogacz a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u144	Minister, I have an article question. 6 Act on the Polish Charter in force. It refers to the rights held by the holder of the Polish Charter. I'd like to ask... Well, these are the privileges of education in schools... taking studies, doctoral studies, which is, I understand, public school education, emergency health care and other qualifications. I would like to ask if these rights, which are valid in the current Polish Charter, because we have not changed it yet, are in the process of the subjective extension... Will such powers as they are now remain? And, for example, regardless of how many people will declare their willingness to study in Poland, we will be prepared for this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u145	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr Senator, the current amendment to the Polish Charter Act does not foresee any changes to the article at all. 6 in terms of privileges or privileges that the senator mentioned. In our opinion, just as it will not happen. jumping growth of people who are applying for the Polish Charter in our consular offices, even in South America, will not result in avalanche growth of people who would like to study at Polish universities or benefit from other benefits enshrined in the Polish Charter Act. Of course, the more people there will be, the more happy we will be. However, I am realistic about what it looks like today and what forecasts can be shaped on the basis of today's situation, and I think that there will not be a situation with which the Polish state's budget could not cope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u147	Thank you, Minister. The list of questioners has been exhausted. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Żaryn will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u148	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, of course, we are happy. I think we can say that together, as the Senate, we are happy that today there is an amendment to the Polish Charter Act, for at least a few reasons. The first reason is that, as a Polish state today, we are very interested in the Polish national community having a sense of connection with its homeland, even if every day this community is separated from us, and for the Polish community to feel also that we as a Polish state are interested in constant contact with Poles and Poles. It sounds kind of propaganda, but it doesn't actually sound propaganda, it sounds real. Why? Because the Polish Charter does not change its scope, especially concerning the article. 6, becomes the basis for authentic intellectual mobilization, but also sentimental mobilization among Poles living outside the country in the topic: how should I direct my personal life? I hope that this law helps Polonia in this tension that every man, especially young, should have in himself: what do I want to do in my life? Formal obstacles that would reduce the level of reflection on this subject, this card is trying to close down, so that we can give Poles living outside the country this more real opportunity to answer this question. I am referring to a very specific category of Poles living outside the country who can become beneficiaries of it. I would be very pleased if this group of Poles became beneficiaries. I mean young people who could study in Poland. Indeed, this is a kind of encouragement, a great incentive for the young generation to find themselves in the Polish university space, university space, also by improving the quality of our teaching at universities. This may seem an example to you, but for example, at my university, at Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński University, there are such opportunities and proposals to teach in English. Potential in Polish science, e.g. Humanistically, it is, but the problem is that very often there are no students who would be interested in attending lectures in English. It is also a kind of encouragement that also Poles living outside the country, and deciding... However, it is worth studying in this country of father or grandfather, or great-great-grandfather in the case of Brazilian Polonia. It's also a very interesting bond that can exist. A generational bond that no longer lies in the interests of me, but which may interest our children, our grandchildren. Well, let's try to see in this imagination a lot of consequences that we may not get to the end today, and which may prove to be insanely useful, insanely developing our national community. Undoubtedly, and I would like to make this clear. I see this document, this act on the Polish Charter, as an atrium to these efforts that are being discussed today in the Senate, with which you argued Senator Pociej Mr. Senator will probably take the floor in a moment. Namely, I personally consider... But I know I'm not alone in the Senate, because it's one of them. on my initiative, this attempt was made to introduce on the agenda a subject concerning the amendment of the Act on electoral law, the introduction of additional districts for Polonia and Poles located outside the country. Well, I think that if we are here in the Senate as a House looking after Polonia and Poles outside the country, the representatives of Polish organizations... Let them know that the Senate definitely does not remove from its catalogue of commitments and important tasks to include as much as possible Polonia and Poles living outside the country in building also a modern, independent Polish country. And these extra circles, whether for senators or MPs... I personally believe that a particularly French case could be to some extent appropriate for us to help us find a model. This is possible and should be taken into account sooner or later by Poland and Poles, I mean Poles living here, in the country, in Poland, and Polonia living outside the country. And I think that such a signal must be given every once in a while, and extending this act on the Polish Charter is just a good excuse to send such a positive signal to the Polish forum. And one last thing. Namely, the only problem for me is undoubtedly what I mentioned in the question. Indeed, I was quite shocked by the reading of the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber for 2017, which shows that undoubtedly Polish consulates, especially in Kazakhstan, also due to huge distances, territorial issues, simply do not manage. And they can't handle being clear. I, for God's sake, don't blame the Foreign Ministry. Well, you can read that there will be similar problems in the future. We know that this is an amendment, which includes. Whether it's mostly Brazil or Argentina. It was not by chance that we mentioned these two countries here. Indeed, in Brazil there are generations of people thinking in Polish and remembering their fatherhood, about their homeland. And the fact that consular services may be exposed to the inability to implement the demands and legitimate claims in this law must be taken into account. And the worst would be I'm going to repeat that sentence once again at the end of the day. If it were found out that the law was not in pursuit of execution, i.e. that the law is not able to be implemented. Wishing would be a very dangerous experiment here. Polonia certainly does not deserve such an experiment. So I hope that the sensitivity in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the issues of the Polish world will lead to quicker conclusions, faster than in the case of subsequent reports of the Supreme Auditorium, so that we can, of course, react in a rapid manner. I wish all of us that this bill should not only be passed today, but also be implemented. And so that this realization brings us definitely a huge amount of joy, to us, to Poles living both in the country and abroad. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u149	Thank you very much, Senator. I'd like to speak with Senator Aleksander Pociej. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u150	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Despite prof. Żarin's anticipation that I will argue with him, I would like to conduct my argument in this particular direction. Surely there is no doubt that our compatriots abroad, representatives of Polonia are a value in itself. This was clearly shown in the 1970s, in the 1980s, when American Polonia supported us, its families economically, as well as put pressure on American politicians who supported freedom activities in Poland. I myself experienced a unique emotion when I watched the elections in Belarus. In Vitebsk, on the edge of the former Republic of Poland, I met Poles. I talked to them, and they sang me some folk songs. It was touching. But we also need to remember about the movies, there are no strong movies, and that's the third part. Love or quit. There Pawlak and Kargul go to their brother, where they discover the granddaughter Pawlakka, who is black, does not speak Polish at all and has no relation to Polishness and Poles. [[The genes do.]] [[Turns out it does.]] Having said that, I will point out that it is important to remember why the weight of the Polish forces has shifted to Europe at the moment. The answer is very simple: because the youngest and most powerful emigration today is in Western Europe. So, with years, these bonds naturally weaken, and no one has invented a cure for it. Of course, it would be great for this Polish diaspora to be as strong as some other diaspora, and after a thousand years she could say that it has a powerful connection. I look at Senator Radziwiłł, and I can also look at myself - we are from Lithuanian families once. If I were to ask today, at least me, if I could vote in Lithuania, I would look and be a little surprised, even though, of course, in some way, I feel a stronger relationship with Lithuania than with other countries, but I am the best example of the fact that even these very strong relationships fly away. That's why I'm curious... because I have to say, as usual, the person who... For me, it's consistent and very logical. Those were the questions of Senator Czerwiński, who was asking questions, but he did not get the answer − and I saw that even the Minister did not know where the opposition was, and where is the majority supporting him - on the question about this double passport. Because that's the problem. I agree that this is a serious problem. And the majority of you have very recently decided that this is a very serious problem. You said if anybody has two citizenships, they'll have to give up one. Or he won't judge, he won't judge. Well, I'm sorry. Where's the logic here? [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] So you can choose the highest authority, you can sit in this House with 2 citizenships, and you can be a judge. No? I don't really understand. It reminds me of a terrible moment in our history: the murder of Narutowicz. What was her right hand's basic claim to Narutowicz at that time? Well, first of all, he spent his whole life in Switzerland, and second of all, his own brother was a foreign minister, if I remember correctly, and he was definitely in the Lithuanian government. From here. No, there is no longer a minister, but I would like to shake the certainty that the best thing that can happen to us is to grant far-reaching powers in Poland to people who may even feel, but who have long since broken direct contact and direct ties with our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u151	Thank you very much, Senator. [[I'd still like to...]] There you go, Mr. Senator. Senator Gogacz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u152	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! We should be very happy that there is a Polish Charter at all. The Pole card is the latest, you can say, history - the year 2000. I remember in the package, together with the draft Polish Charter - the privilege of a native, there was the Act on repatriation and the Act on the amendment of the Act on Citizenship. These three projects were processed together. And imagine that the act on repatriation was adopted not the best, the wrong act on repatriation, but giving a lot of hope and joy to all Poles who were waiting for such a bill. It was the first repatriation bill. The Citizenship Act also appeared... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, ladies and gentlemen.]] ...and the Polish Charter Act has not been adopted. It was not adopted until early 2007, if I remember correctly, the Polish Charter was adopted in 2007. Now we're working on... well, I remember we were bringing up arguments that there was a Hungarian Charter, a Slovak Charter, so why wouldn't there be a Polish Charter? However, we were very happy about the fact that the Polish Charter came into force later, the Polish Charter limited as far as the subject matter is concerned, to the former states of the Soviet Union, the 15 former states of the Soviet Union. And, of course, it was a great joy to meet Poles, with Poles living in countries of the former Soviet Union, with Poles who were strongly deprived of citizenship. These Poles showed the Polish Charter and said that they had a Polish Charter, with tears in their eyes, with great joy, showed it because in a physical, technical sense it was a document, one can say, resembling the present identity card. And we were all very proud of the fact that in the Polish Parliament we were able to adopt a bill that met the expectations of Poles from across the eastern border, Poles who, contrary to constitutional regulations... There's a record in every constitution, in ours too, it's an art. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2, which says that no one can claim citizenship unless the citizen resigns himself. And that's where the Poles were taken from their citizenship. Certainly, when deciding that we should adopt this law, we should also pay attention to the fact that these Poles in the East are in such a difficult situation. I hope that everyone still waiting for the Polish Charter in the eastern countries will receive it as soon as possible. We have the sixth largest diaspora in the world, it is about 20 million Poles who live in the world, 40 million live in Poland. We are impressed by the symposium recently held on the 150th anniversary of Poles' trips, the first settlements of Poles in Brazil, and we are very impressed by that Polonia, which has more than 2 million Poles. Now we were in Rome meeting with Poles, with Polonia. We're very impressed by her, too. Everywhere, whether we meet Poles from across the eastern border, whether we meet Poles from the West or Poles from America, from South America, we literally see this great yearning for Polishness, for meetings, so that we can just hang out. Before us, in front of the Polish Parliament, there is a big, huge challenge for the Polish state. I mean to create mechanisms, such as legislation that will make it easier for us to integrate. There was a rehearsal... Senator Pociej, although in a rather negative spirit, mentioned that there was an attempt to allow Poles living outside Poland, Polonia or Poles to choose senators from among themselves. Well, it was possible, Mr. Senator, to write also in such a way that Poles living outside Poland can choose senators only if they have citizenship. We are, having regard to Poles living across the eastern border and that they themselves did not renounce this citizenship... There's a school that says that in the case of someone who hasn't given up citizenship, who has been taken away by force, it's like he still has that citizenship. We have come from the assumption, which requires a really difficult interpretation, that if we accept a record saying that it is only about citizens, we will deprive Poles living in the East of the right to choose senators if such a right were to be established. Because who in the East has Polish citizenship? Polish diplomats? I don't think anybody else has that citizenship. We have sent to Poles living in the world, to over 500 organizations information, a request to evaluate this project, this initiative of ours. These Poles spoke very positively on this subject, also on our proposal, so that they could choose 2 senators, i.e. 1 senator among Poles living, generally speaking, in the East and 1 senator in the West. We even had a letter in which it was stated that since Poles living in Poland, in the number of 40 million, have the right to choose 100 senators, why Poles living abroad, in the number of about 20 million, would not choose 50 senators and certainly 1 senator from each continent. Ladies and gentlemen, it is good that this discussion took place, it is good that in the Senate we were able to discuss it, because we have a great duty, when it comes to Poles living abroad, to make up for in some way that they were very often forced to leave, for political reasons, for economic reasons, those were the reasons that actually dominated. Therefore, today's law amending the Law on the Pole's Frat is a law going in the right direction and we should be very happy about it. We have a great duty to promote that Poles living outside Poland have the right to have a Pole's Card, that they have the right to obtain the rights and privileges which are included in this Pole's Charter. I do not believe that this is the end of our efforts to give rights to Poles who are abroad. I believe that the discussion about the Polish Charter and the discussion about the right to choose from among the Polish senators is still the one discussion in which we all participate. It's a good thing it's happening, and it's a good thing it's giving such an effect. Because we are sure to adopt this law, like the one connected with the adoption of the amendment of the Polish Charter Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u153	Thank you very much. Senator Aleksander Pociej. Five minutes. [[Voice from the room: Which time? Third?]] [[Voice from the room: Today's the sixth.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u154	There'll be two more. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I agree with Senator Gogacz that the wrongs suffered by Poles in the East during the communist regime, and the attempt to extort... In general, the very idea of taking citizenship, from totalitarian systems, which in this way dealt with the opposition... I absolutely agree with the senator that the situation of Eastern Polonia in general is completely different from that of Western Polonia. Western Polonia, except for a few cases of people who didn't want to come back in the 1980s for political reasons because they were scared, and then they settled there... Yeah, but they were units, a small part. So that this is Polonia, which at some point decided that she was somehow ill in this country, with us, and decided, mostly for economic reasons, to settle there. And it's a life decision. Another shift of borders, when suddenly the citizen who lived in Poland, was a Pole all his life, was in the Soviet Union, Belarus or Ukraine. But we need to remember in this discussion that this is a very sensitive matter. Today we talked about a resolution on the Silesian uprisings and in the statements of colleagues from the Law and Justice there were threads in which it was said that ideas about the autonomy of Silesia, etc., etc. this is something contrary to the Polish state's right. And now we must be very careful, because Europe is going through such a breeze of nationalism. I don't know if you've been following what's going on between Hungary and Ukraine at the moment. Hungarians decided to give passports to Hungarians from their origins in Ukraine. The situation is so hot right now, it's a serious problem. I stress once again that we should take care of Polonia, that it is absolutely a value in itself and it has already been proven many times. But we must also be very careful, among others. with ideas such as the one about constitutional changes and this vote, because this stick often has two ends. Only about this and in this context I mentioned earlier, in my previous speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u155	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Messages, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u156	The meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the election of the deputy chairman of the committee will take place on 9 May in room 179, 10 minutes after the adjournment is announced. [[Thank you very much. I declare...]] One more announcement. [[I'm sorry.]] Message two. The meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Laws and Petitions on the examination of the amendments tabled at the 70th Senate meeting to the Act amending the Police Act and certain other laws will take place on 9 May immediately after the announcement of a break in room 176. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u157	Thank you very much. Dismissed until 4:30 p.m. [[Adjournment from 15 minutes 58 to 16 minutes 30]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u158	I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators, let me remind you that the next 70th Senate meeting is scheduled for 28 and 29 May 2019. The order of business of this meeting will be provided to you by electronic means. Ladies and gentlemen, on your desktops the materials were presented: the convening and draft of the ceremonial order, the 80th Senate meeting scheduled for 4 June 2019; the celebration of the 30th anniversary of the free elections to the Senate on 4 June 1989 and the invitation to the concert on the occasion of the 30th anniversary of the elections. In organisational and technical matters, you will be contacted by employees of the Senate Office. We proceed with the examination of item 25 of the agenda: the election of the Chairman of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. The draft resolution was prepared by the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs and is included in print No 1173. I would also like to inform you that the proposal for the election of Senator Adam Gadawa to chair the Committee on National Economy and Innovation has been welcomed by the Senior Convention. I would ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Krzysztof Słoń, to present a proposal to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u159	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senate Affairs Committee at its meeting on 9 May 2019 after hearing the information of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the opinion of the Seniors Convention adopted the draft resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland and submitted it to the High Senate. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the election of the chairman of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. §1. Senate of the Republic of Poland, pursuant to art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, elects Senator Adam Gadawa to chair the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. §2. The resolution shall enter into force on the date of its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u160	Thank you very much. I ask Senator Andrzej Stanisławek to speak and present Senator Adam Gadawa's candidacy as chairman of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u161	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator Adam Gawada is a graduate of the Silesian University of Technology in Gliwice, a master of mining and geology engineering, an expert in raw materials and energy policy, a member of the Polish Committee of the World Energy Council. Between 1994 and 2007 he held managerial positions in the mining industry: the coordinator of the Office of Strategy and Production Management Team at the Southern Mining Centre; the representative of the Director of Quality Management Systems; the head of investment and environmental protection; the deputy head of the shooting service and mining works; the mining overrigar. He participated in the development of mining plans and strategies. He monitored the elements of the mining macro-environment, prepared a report on its condition together with proposals for a recovery plan. He was involved in the work of the report management team, the potential to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in Poland until 2050 and the forecast of the Polish economy's demand for coal and brown coal as a raw material for energy and in the perspective of 2050. Between 1998 and 2007, he was a councillor of the Wodzisławski District Council. From 2002 to 2007, he served as Vice-President. Between 2014 and 2015 he served as Councilman of the Sejm of the Silesian Voivodeship. He organized conferences and debates, author of scientific publications covering mining and raw materials and energy issues. He was a member of the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism, the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, the Committee on Innovation and Modern Technology and the Committee on European Union Affairs. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We recommend Senator Adam Gadawa to chair the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. I ask the High House to take a positive approach in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u162	Thank you very much, Senator. Would any of your senators like to speak on this matter? No. Thank you. We are voting on a draft resolution on the election of Senator Adam Gawada as chairman of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 4]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has decided on the election of the chairman of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. [[Applause]] Congratulations to the senator, sir. And I ask you very much, Mr. Adama Gawada, to approach the presidential table. I would like to present to the President a resolution that I just signed. [[There were no votes.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[The Marshal hands over a resolution]] [[Applause]] We are returning to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on amending the law - Family and caring code. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] I would like to remind you that a report has been presented to the committee on the draft law and that a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would like to remind you that the committees are requesting the Senate to adopt a uniform bill in print no. 1059 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Alexander Swede to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft law presented by the committees on the amendment of the law of the Family and Care Code and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 Senators voted, 83 for, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 5]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the law on family and caring law and has adopted a resolution on the introduction of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Alexander Swede to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We are returning to the second agenda: the law amending the Law on State aid in raising children and certain other laws. A meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy took place during the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 1163 Z. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Senator Andrzej Kaminski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u163	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy at its meeting today considered the proposals made during the debate on 8 May 2019 on the Law amending the Law on State aid in the upbringing of children and certain other laws and asks the High House to adopt the Act without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u164	Thank you very much, Senator. Does the senator, Senator Jan Rulewski, want to speak yet? [[Yes.]] Yes? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u165	Thank you. June 1st is baby day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u166	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the committee's motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 Senators voted, 82 votes against and two Senators abstained. [[Voting No 6]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on State aid in raising children and certain other laws. We are returning to the third item on the agenda: the Act amending the Employment Promotion Act and the Employment Market Institutions. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 1166 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 Senators voted, 74 in favour, 10 Senators abstained. [[Voting No 7]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Employment Promotion and Employment Market Institutions. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Law amending the Labour Code and some other laws. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Legislative Commission have presented a draft resolution in which they propose an amendment to the Act; Senate printing No 1164 A. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the amendment submitted and then a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendment adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendment tabled by the committees. The purpose of the amendment is to specify in the act the time limit for the issuing of a work certificate by the employer. This matter has so far been defined in an implementing act to the Labour Code. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 8]] We proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety with the amendment resulting from the amendment adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 81 for, 1 against. [[Voting No 9]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Labour Code and some other laws. We return to the examination of item five of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Social Labour Inspection Act. Remind me. that yesterday a report was presented to the committee on the draft law and a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committees request the Senate to adopt a uniform bill, contained in print No. 1071 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Wojciech Piecha to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft law presented by the committees on the amendment of the Social Labour Inspection Act and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 10]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Act on Social Labour Inspection and has adopted a resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Wojciech Piecha to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We return to the examination of item six of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and certain other laws. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 1148 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 11]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and on certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Tax on the Extraction of Certain Copies. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation have presented one-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate prints No 1158 A and 1158 B. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 61 were in favour, 20 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 12]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Tax on the Extraction of Certain Cosmines. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act on National Oncology Strategy. The Health Commission has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 1165 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 13]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on National Oncology Strategy. We are back to discussing item 9 of the agenda: the Law on Health Care for Students. The Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on Health have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 1149 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 62 were in favour, 22 senators abstained, no one opposed. [[Voting No 14]] As a result of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on Health Care for Students. We return to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the shaping of the agricultural system and certain other laws. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 1168 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 59 were in favour, 12 against, 13 abstentions. [[Voting No 15]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the law on the shaping of the agricultural system and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Products. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 1150 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 16]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Products. We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the law amending the Road Transport Act and certain other laws. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Infrastructure have presented a draft resolution in which they propose amendments to the Act; Senate printing No 1167 A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendment 1 aligns the requirements for drivers applying for a national road transport licence for passenger transport by passenger cars, a vehicle designed to carry more than 7 persons and not more than 9 persons, including the driver, and a taxi. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 17]] Amendment 2 clarifies that a road transport operator is obliged to carry out all such mediation activities solely for carriers with an appropriate licence. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 18]] Amendments 3rd, 4th, 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, 14th and 15th must be voted together. The third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, fourteen and fifteen amendments aim to ensure that operators carrying out national road transport in the field of carriage of passengers by taxi are issued only one licence for each vehicle intended to carry out such activity, and that, consequently, the change in the indications of the measuring and checking equipment in the vehicle does not give rise to the loss of the licence issued for the entire company. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 82 were in favour and two senators abstained. [[Voting No 19]] Amendment 11 provides the necessary precision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 Senators voted, 82 were in favour, with one abstention. [[Voting No 20]] Amendment 12 clarifies that before the expiry of the 7-day time limit by which each intermediary must verify whether the cooperating carrier holds an appropriate licence, the former shall not be punished by a penalty of money or by the loss of a licence for the transfer of persons for a contract of carriage to an entity without authorisation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 83 in favour, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 21]] Amendment 13 is of a technical legislative nature. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted in favour. [[Voting No 22]] We are now voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 62 were in favour, 1 against, and 21 senators abstained. [[Voting No 23]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the Road Transport Act and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the law amending the law on postal law. The Committee on Infrastructure has presented a draft resolution in which it proposes the adoption of an amendment to the Act "Senatski Print No 1151 A. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the amendment submitted and then a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendment adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendment tabled by the committee. The amendment restores the part of the provision that defines the entity required to apply the provisions set out in the Regulation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 24]] We proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety with the amendment resulting from the amendment adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 25]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the law "Postal Law." We are returning to the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on proceedings before administrative courts and certain other laws. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Infrastructure have presented single-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate prints No 1152 A and 1152 B. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 26]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Procedure before administrative courts and certain other laws. We would like to return to the discussion of item 15 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on State Aid Procedure. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of this law without any amendments to the Senate print No 1153 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 27]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on State aid proceedings. We return to the review of item 16 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Energy Consumption Information by Energy-using Products and on the control of the implementation of the programme for marking office equipment and certain other laws. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of this law without amendments. Senatski Print No 1159 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 28]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Energy Consumption Information by Energy-using Products and on the control of the implementation of the programme of marking office equipment and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the Act on amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance of Crimes against the Polish Nationals and some other laws. The session was interrupted by a meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 1155 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Andrzej Mioduszewski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u167	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Laws and Petitions on 9 May 2019 examined the proposals submitted during the debate on 8 May 2019 on the Act amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance and the Commission for the pursuit of Crimes against the National Polish People and some other laws and presents the following position to the High Senate. The High Senate is ready to accept the proposal set out in the first paragraph, i.e. the proposal to adopt the law without amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u168	Thank you very much, Senator. Does the senator want to speak again? Senator Jan Rulewski submitted his conclusions during the discussion. [[No.]] Thank you. We therefore proceed to the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on the proposal of the Committee on Human Rights, the Laws and Petitions to adopt this law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, 58 votes against, 23 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 29]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance, the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish National and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Polish Charter. The Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad presented a draft resolution in which it proposed amendments to the Act. Print No 1156 A. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendment 1 aims to amend the drafting of the provisions in order to remove unnecessary repetition. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 30]] Amendment No 2 aims to amend the drafting of the provision and to shorten to 30 days the deadline for the submission of information on the applicant Pole Card or the application for the renewal of the Pole Charter by the ABW. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 31]] Amendment 3 introduces a transitional provision prejudicing that cases initiated and not completed before the date of entry into force of the Act will be conducted on the basis of the existing provisions. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, 82 for, 1 against. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me? The system's crashed. Should we wait a minute or take a break? Oh, you don't know... We don't vote because we don't have how. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Dismissed until 5:05 p.m. [[Adjournment from 17 minutes 00 to 17 minutes 05]] I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a formal request for the resummation of the vote on Amendment 3, because we have voted, but we do not have an electronic record. Is anyone against it? And if so, who? [[Voice from the room: No one, no objections.]] Good. Then we proceed with the vote on Amendment Three. It introduces a transitional provision which prejudices that cases initiated and not completed before the date of entry into force of the Act will be conducted on the basis of existing provisions. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 32]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 77 were in favour, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 33]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Polish Charter Act. We return to the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the Act amending the Police Act and some other laws. The session was interrupted by a meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 1154 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u169	Dear Marshal, High Senate! I would like to inform you that the committee at its meeting today, after considering the proposals submitted in the course of the debate on the Law amending the Police Act and some other laws, Senator's printing No 1154, supported the conclusions set out in paragraphs 1, 2, 5 and 8 of the statement of applications and requested their adoption by the High Senate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u170	Thank you, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the committee, Senator Aleksander Pociej, to present proposals supported by a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u171	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Until half an hour ago, I was rapporteur for the proposal of the majority of the committee, but the vote at the committee meeting led to the fact that I am now rapporteur for the request of minorities. [[Voice from the room: That's what happens.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'd like to... Well, that's life. But I would like to remind you that this was the second meeting of the committee on this matter, and that at the first, the day before yesterday, we had no doubt, so that the committee voted, and above the divisions, for all the amendments. Why? Well, my dear colleagues... I'm sorry, my fellow Members, it was our petition-based project, which the committee first felt was right, and then made it clear by creating a project. This project was voted out in this House, he went to the Sejm and came back from the Sejm I say this with due respect, massacred. Our Legislative Office has prepared a number of proposals for amendments, of which most have, of course, been recognised. Neither did the government. Please note one amendment that has been approved by the majority of our committee, both by the Senators of Law and Justice and by the Senators of the Civic Platform. I don't know what happened between those two committee meetings. I can only guess. I would like to point out that this whole project was based on a ruling by the Constitutional Tribunal, which it found... I apologize, on the basis of a petition in which the patent presented the following facts. For 12 years, his case has been the subject of legal proceedings. Since the previous provisions established that only up to five years could disciplinary action be resumed on the basis of a positive judgment, a judicial cleansing, there was no way that the court's judgment could be translated into disciplinary action, 12 years. And all of a sudden, it is recognised that half of the special services are subject to repeated and repressed disciplinary action by the same citizen. Suddenly, there are no reasons why only 3 services are introduced 10 years instead of 5 years. And let me remind you that the basis of what you voted on here a few months ago was the facts, a situation where a citizen of 12 years claimed his claim in a court of law. I believe that what happened at the committee meeting today is a contradiction of what this House should decide. The ratio of votes 4:3 and with a complete change of position of the Senators of Law and Justice have been maintained those provisions which, according to this petition, are completely nonsense. Moreover, it is completely incomprehensible, incomprehensible from no point of view of the diversity of law with regard to officers of different departments. Therefore, if you do not wish to expose this House to ridicule, I have a huge request that you vote in favour of the third and fourth amendments. I'm asking you to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u172	Thank you very much, Senator. Does Senator Aleksander Pociej still want to speak as an applicant? I take it you didn't. We'll proceed with the vote. We will start with the amendments tabled. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment 1. Amendment 1 aims to indicate in the Act that disciplinary action cannot be resumed to the detriment of an officer when the criminality of the act which has been the subject of the proceedings has ceased. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 34]] Amendment 2 removes the wrong reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 35]] Amendments 3 and 4, as in the case of the other services, allow for the resumption of disciplinary proceedings in favour of an ABW, AW and CBA officer even after a period of 10 years if he has been disciplinaryly expelled from the service and subsequently acquitted in criminal proceedings. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 33 were in favour, 48 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 36]] Amendments 3 and 4 were rejected. Amendment 5 harmonises the terminology of the law as regards replacing the definition of eligible family members with a direct indication of the circle of entitled persons. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 81 were in favour and 1 against. [[Voting No 37]] Amendments 6, 9 and 10 delete a provision which extends the scope of the authorisation to issue an implementing act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 25 against, 57 against. [[Voting No 38]] Amendment 7 limits the scope of the authorisation to issue an implementing act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 27 against, 55 against. [[Voting No 39]] Amendment 8 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 40]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted in favour, 56 against, 25 against, with 1 abstention. [[Voting No 41]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the Police Act and some other laws. We return to the examination of the item on the 20th agenda: the Act on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the International Criminal Police Organisation of Interpol concerning privileges and immunities during 47. The European Regional Conference, signed in Lyon on 9 April 2019. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Committee on Local Territorial Government and State Administration have presented single-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate prints No 1162 A and 1162 B. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 78 were in favour, no one was against, with three abstentions. [[Voting No 42]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the International Criminal Police Organisation of Interpol concerning privileges and immunities during 47. The European Regional Conference, signed in Lyon on 9 April 2019. We return to agenda item 21: the Act on ratification of the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and Japan, on the other hand, drawn up in Tokyo on 17 July 2018. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of this law without any amendments to the Senate Print No 1157 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 43]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the ratification of the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and Japan, on the other hand, drawn up in Tokyo on 17 July 2018. We return to the examination of item twenty-second of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the outbreak of the First Silesian Uprising. I would like to remind you that the committee's report on the draft resolution was presented before the adjournment and that a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I remind you that the committee requests the Senate to adopt a uniform draft resolution in print No 1146 S. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution contained in print No 1146 S. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 44]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution in the 100th outbreak of the First Silesian Uprising. I would like to inform you that the order of the seventy-eightth Senate meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. Senator statements are not discussed. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Would any of your senators like to speak? Yes? Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u173	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! I would like to make a statement to the Minister of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Marek Gróbiarczyk, the President of the Polish Voivodeship, Przemysław Dacy and the Regional Director of the Water Management Board in Wroclaw, Mateusz Rawski. I'd like to call it "the flood prevention system," yes. Resettlement of residents No, it's not. Dear Minister, Dear President, Dear Director, I am directing my statement to you in connection with the media disturbance in the area of the Kłodzkie soil which has been ongoing for several weeks concerning preliminary projects, concepts and analyses concerning the possibility of increasing flood retention in Kłodzkia Kotlina. I would like to express my concern at the plans that undermine the fundamental rights of the people of our region. Surely we are all in favour of building a flood prevention system in the area of Kłodzkia Basin, but not in a way that leads to expropriation of inhabitants. Like villagers, local councillors and councillors from the district of Law and Justice representing our region, I am concerned about a potential plan for the construction of dry tanks in residential areas, which could lead to the need for resettlement of many people. Such plans apply to many places on Kladsko's land and met with protests on a massive scale in communities, among others. Długopola Górny, Wilkanowa, Bolesławowa, Stary Gieraltów, Goszow, Radochów and Ścinawka Górna. The project deals with places of great tourist importance, whose inhabitants are mainly dependent on the pursuit of family tourism activities. Plans to expropriate them, with consequences in the form of resettlement, as well as activities that interfere dramatically with the local landscape and cultural landscape can only lead to dramas of individual residents as well as entire local communities. Projects motivated by even the best intentions And, yes, I assume, it was in the case of projects to improve retention, which unfortunately do not have dramatic social consequences, should not and must not enter into the implementation phase. Of course, I understand the need to protect our region from the negative effects of floods, but this cannot be done at the expense of the citizens of our country. The Law and Justice Programme is primarily about caring for the needs of every citizen regardless of his place of residence and social status. It is also the consistently implemented care for its fundamental rights expressed in the laws adopted by the Polish Parliament. I therefore ask you to clarify this issue and to stop at this preliminary stage of the process which would cause enormous social, cultural and environmental losses to our region, striking directly at its inhabitants and carrying their family dramas. At the same time, please take into account the possibility of relocation of flood tanks to non-housing sites and take into account the problem of the local community related to drought through plans to build a small retention system in both the State Forests and the rest of the land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u174	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Zbigniew Silence. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u175	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to ask the Minister of Science and Higher Education to reply to the request I made on 21 March, which was nearly 2 months ago, on the issue of the financial tranches that the Ministry had provided to universities. I haven't gotten an answer so far, and I would like to ask the Minister to do his statutory duty. It's Primo. And the second point: I ask the Minister of Infrastructure to regulate a matter that causes a deep sense of injustice in many people. Namely in the article. 73 of the Act − Provisions introducing laws reforming public administration have been introduced, which has nothing to do with the title of the Act and which in a sneaky way disposes of persons' property rights, and without compensation. There was such a provision that, if a public road was arranged on other people's land, the property of this land passes to the municipality or the Treasury, and that by law as of 1 January 2001. So it's ex lege, and the voivode only makes a declaratory decision that confirms it. What's going on? Often now, and so even 18 years after the Act passed ownership rights for the State Treasury or the commune, the voivode states that, and people cannot receive compensation, because the Act provided that a claim for damages could be filed - surprisingly! − until 31 December 2005. So today someone finds out that he lost his property in 2001, but could have applied for compensation by the end of December 2005. Well, that's absurd and obvious injustice. People question that a lot. They think it should be fixed. I therefore call on the Minister to consider whether or not to take any legislative action to remedy this situation. I believe that these are not any high costs, but that compensation should be paid to these people, because the principle of protection of property rights arising from the Constitution of the Article. 22 and 64 and articles thereof. 1 Additional Protocol, Protocol No 1, to the European Convention on Human Rights provides that compensation is to be paid for any expropriation which can only be made public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u176	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Florek - please - and then Senator Czerwiński. That's the order. [[Wait a minute.]] According to reports, not alphabetical order. [[Five minutes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u177	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Declaration addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure Andrzej Adamczyk. Dear Minister, What is happening in the last 3 years on Polish roads is very disturbing. The year 2019 began tragically. The statistics are scary. In the first quarter of 2019 105 people were killed more than in the same period of 2018. That's a 20% increase. It was never that bad. It is necessary to take immediate and radical action. Road accidents are, above all, a tragedy for the people closest to you, but also the costs of saving and treating the victims. These costs in Poland are estimated to amount to about PLN 50 billion per year. [[No, it can't be.]] The cause of most accidents in Poland is speed and non-compliance with prevailing conditions − so says statistics. Speed kills. The number of photographers in Poland differs significantly from the number in other European countries, especially... sorry very much, after the elimination of the possibility for local authorities to use them. Some city guards may have overpaid the budgets of the municipalities, but mostly monitored places that were particularly dangerous by frequently changing the location of the measurement. Polish drivers abroad can drive safely, do not exceed speed, drive according to regulations, do not cause accidents, because they know that there are much more cameras and they can be found in any, even unusual place The fees for this, i.e. the mandates, are also very high. The Road Transport Inspection is responsible for the deployment of photo-radiators in Poland. There are far too few of them, and there is no money to buy them urgently. The main road transport inspector has been granted permission to grant EU funding and to expand the network of speed cameras. They should appear on Polish roads in the 3rd quarter of 2020, in turn the exchange of the oldest for the new ones is planned in the 3rd quarter of 2021. In total, there will be over 600 speed cameras on the roads. By comparison, there are almost 6,000 such devices in Italy, 5,500 in the UK and 5,500 in Germany. It's almost $4,000. The police don't have enough photo-recorders. More and more fatal accidents occur on highways. Take an example from the German police and also measure the speed of the speed of the speed cameras placed on the viaducts over the motorways. Statistics show that the number of road fatalities in Poland in the last 20 years decreased by at least 200 people per year. In 2015, the number of deaths in relation to 2014 decreased by 264 people and amounted to 2,000 930 people. Unfortunately, from 2016 to 2018, this trend has slowed down and now, with little hesitation, it remains close to 3,000 victims a year. Every year, one rural community, or about 3,000 people, dies statistically. In terms of the number of road fatalities in European statistics, we are almost at the gray end. In 2018 7,6 people were killed in terms of 100,000 inhabitants on Polish roads. For example, I will give you how it is in other countries: the United Kingdom, 2.8; Denmark, 3.0; Sweden, 3.2; Germany, 3.9; Slovakia, 4.6; France, 4.8. Twenty-five thousand people died on the roads in the EU last year, one percent. less than in 2017, and more than 1% on our roads more, which represents more than 11% all killed on EU roads. An increase in aggression, non-cultural behaviour by drivers, bravados, the use of light and sound signals to pave the way, a sense of impunity, considerable speed crossing, overtaking on continuous lines, telephone calls and text messages while driving, driving on alcohol and drugs The main causes of road accidents in Poland. There is also a significant increase in the number of motor vehicles in Poland. We have nearly a million of them a year. According to the CUS data on 30 June 2018, there were almost 30 million of them. In 2018, more than 945 thousand used passenger cars were introduced into the Polish customs territory and 54% were introduced into the Polish customs territory. of them were over 10 years old. Sales of new cars increased last year to over 600 thousand. Poland is hitting Germany and France in this respect. We have registered 672 cars per 1,000 inhabitants, and the EU average is 587. Despite significant improvements in road infrastructure in Poland, road safety has not improved in recent years. There is no response from the institutions and services responsible in this regard. Every action and every zloty spent on improving road safety can save the health and life of many road users. Finally, I am addressing the Minister, at the same time the Chairman of the National Road Safety Council, with the following questions. Why are the statistics of road accidents in Poland so intimidating? Why has the number of deaths on our roads been decreasing for three years? Second question: how many people involved in road accidents with fatal effect drove without a driver's license or after losing a driver's license? Third: why are there so few traffic policemen on our roads? Fourth: how many currently ♪ and why so little ♪ Do the police have devices, video recorders and mobile cameras? Why is the correct road marking rarely checked and monitored? Question six: why are there so many deaths in Poland on pedestrian crossings? What measures are being taken by the Ministry in order to limit them? Recent: when will education programmes be implemented and disseminated for cyclists or electric scooters in connection with infrastructure changes? And the last. Why is the work on the national road traffic management system so much delayed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u178	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u179	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's statement is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Mateusz Morawiecki. Dear Prime Minister, In accordance with the current laws on local government, district government and regional government, the President of the Council of Ministers, also with the help of the voivodship, supervises the activity of local government units. In particular, it asks the Sejm to terminate the council of the municipality, district council or sejm of the voivodship in the event of repeated violations of laws or constitutions. For this reason, either the mayor or the president of the city is dismissed or the district board or the voivodship board is dissolved at the request of the voivodship. It may also establish a commission board when the authorities of the municipality, district or voivodeship show a lack of effectiveness in the performance of public tasks. Dear Prime Minister, the legal tools contained in the so-called. are local government laws sufficient to exercise real supervision over the activities of local government units? This is a question that I ask after some of the presidents of large Polish cities. I'll trade them. Point one. Signed by the President of Warsaw Rafał Trzaskowski so-called LGBT+ cards, whose provisions, especially in the field of sexual education of children and young people according to WHO standards, violate the Polish constitution and law. Similar solutions are declared by the presidents of other cities. Point two. Intentional non-execution of the so-called law still in force. decommunization of public space. To this day, in Warsaw and some other cities, the names of the streets of the famous communist ideologies remain. Point three. So-called. the reprivatization affair in Warsaw and the deliberate actions of the city authorities sabotaging the findings of the verification commission. About similar abuses in other cities, e.g. in Krakow, we learn systematically. Point four. Attempts to circumvent the Act on the conversion of perpetual land for residential purposes into property rights of these land by rapidly updating perpetual use charges, i.e. conversion fees, as well as conversion fees, as well as for the establishment of discounts that we observed a few months ago. Point five. Supporting the strike of teachers and the consequences thereof, i.e. Lockdowns and exams, by the presidents of some cities. Prime Minister, as these examples show, in particular some presidents of large cities behave as if the constitution and laws in the cities they manage did not apply, or at least not entirely. Isn't it time for effective action against these illegal processes using already existing legal tools, and perhaps new ones, e.g. wider application of replacement work? It is important that on 4 June this year. it did not turn out that a network of urban enclaves was created, which sabotaged Polish law and by actions with a political basis fight against the Polish nation and the Polish state. With respect, Jerzy Czerwiński, Senator of the Republic of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-05-09-senat-78-2.u180	Thank you very much, Senator. The list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 70th meeting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office of the Senate's work room 255. The 70th eighth session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland 9th term of office is closed. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[Meeting adjourned at 17 minutes 39]]
