ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I will appoint Monika Wielichowska, Elżbieta Zielińska, Marcin Duszek and Krzysztof Kubow to the secretaries of today's proceedings. Marcin Duszek and Krzysztof Kubów will be members in the first part of the session. The minutes and the list of speakers will be led by Marcin Duszek and Monika Wielichowska. I consider the minutes of the 83rd session of the Sejm to be adopted in the absence of objections. High Seym! On 10 July this year. Maciej Jankowski - politician, union activist, Member of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland of the 3rd term of office, activist of the underground "Solidarity." Let's celebrate his memory with a moment of silence. [[The assembled rise, a moment of silence]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon him.]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon him.]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon him.]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[Members: Amen.]] Thank you. The Council of Ministers has submitted draft laws: - on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act, - Public procurement law, - Provisions implementing the Public Procurement Law. The designs are printed in 3580, 3624 and 3625 respectively. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the first reading of these draft laws. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the government draft law amending the Act on Veterans of Action outside the State and certain other laws, print No 3601. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - to prevent food waste, - ensuring accessibility for persons with special needs, - amending the Law on Social Assistance and the Law on the Protection of Mental Health, - amending the Law on Minimum Compensation for Work, - concerning the law on pension provision for uniformed officers, - amending the Police Act, the Border Guard Act and the Prison Service Act, - amending certain laws in relation to the implementation of eHealth solutions, - on the amendment of the Act on Public Use and Volunteering. The reports shall be printed as follows: 3655, 3644, 3638, 3639, 3643, 3641, 3650 and 3640. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and, in the case of printing reports Nos 3639 and 3644, consent to the application of Article. 51 (3) of the Sejm Regulation. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Law on ports and marinas and certain other laws, - about amending the Penal Code Act. These are prints 3636 and 3613 respectively. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the examination of these reports. The group of Members submitted a request to express a vote of distrust towards the Environment Minister Henryk Kowalczyk, print No 3607. The committee's opinion is in print No 3648. On the basis of the article. Article 115 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 in conjunction with Article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with The Council of Ministers has submitted a draft law amending certain laws to reduce regulatory burdens, print No 3622. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, there was opposition to the proposal to complete the agenda for the first reading of this project. This is, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to complete the agenda. The adoption of the proposal to supplement the agenda will mean that the Sejm has agreed to the application of the Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: First reading of the government draft law amending certain laws in order to reduce regulatory burdens, print no. 3622, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 381 Members voted. For - 232, against - 148, 1 abstained. The Sejm accepted the offer. The Sejm Bureau gave an opinion on the proposal that the Sejm should listen to five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in the discussion at first reading of the draft government law amending certain laws with a view to reducing regulatory burdens. At the meeting of the Sejm Bureau, it was proposed that the Sejm should listen to 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and 5 minutes' statements on behalf of the circles in the discussion on this item. I will put to the vote the proposal given by the Bureau of the Sejm to listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. Its rejection will mean that the Sejm will hear ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and five-minute statements on behalf of the circles. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of the proposal given by the Sejm Bureau to hear the five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 389 Members voted. For - 216, against - 173, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the offer. The Sejm Bureau gave an opinion on the proposal that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in discussions on the committee's report on draft laws amending the Code of Criminal Procedure. At the meeting of the Sejm Bureau, it was proposed that the Sejm should listen to 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and 5 minutes' statements on behalf of the circles in the discussion on this item. I will put to the vote the proposal given by the Bureau of the Sejm to listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. Its rejection will mean that the Sejm will hear ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and five-minute statements on behalf of the circles. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the proposal given by the Sejm Bureau to hear the five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 388 Members voted. For-- 215, against-- 173, no one's holding back. The Sejm accepted the offer. The authorised entities have submitted draft laws: - amending the electoral code law, - the State Commission for the Clarification of Actions Against Sexual Freedom and Vice, against a minor under the age of 15. These projects will be delivered in prints 3662 and 3663 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the first reading of these projects. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. [[Objection.]] Who's objecting? Please tell me to which point. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: Plus.]] To the electoral code? The electoral code. Then we'll settle the objection. It's the electoral code, print number 3662. We will resolve the opposition to this point in order to consider the amendment of the electoral code law, print No 3662. There has been an objection and I will put this objection to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the electoral code law, print No 3662, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? There were 391 Members voted. For - 218, against - 167, abstained 6. The Sejm accepted and agreed to apply the Article clause. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to a joint brief debate on points on: - the report on the implementation of the State budget for 2018, together with the analysis of the implementation of the State budget and monetary policy assumptions presented by the Supreme Audit Chamber in 2018 and the Commission's draft discharge resolution, - information on guarantees and guarantees provided in 2018 by the State Treasury, certain legal persons and Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, - reports on the activities of the National Bank of Poland in 2018. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles in joint discussions in the first readings of the draft laws on Public Procurement Law and on the Family and Care Code Act. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in discussions on the other items on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the Seniors' Convention accepted the proposal of the Bureau of the Sejm to consider the current information on the drug crisis in Poland, which was requested by the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club - Coalition Polska. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter is available in the Sejm Information System. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 10.30, - Poselska etiquette - hour. 10.30, - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on National Defence - h.m. 11, - Infrastructure - hour 11, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 11.30, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 12, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - Cultures and means of communication jointly with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 12, - Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs - hour. 12, - Health-- hour. 12, - Inquiry to examine the regularity and legality of operations and the negligence and omissions of public authorities and institutions in ensuring the revenue of the Treasury in respect of the tax on goods and services and excise duties between December 2007 and November 2015 - at 12, - for the European Union - at 14 p.m., - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 14, - Health-- hour. 14, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 15, - Public Finances - at 15 p.m., - Culture and means of communication jointly with the Committee on Education, Science and Youth - hour. 3.30 p.m., - to State Control, together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, at 3 p.m. 16, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 16, - Extraordinary deregulation - hour. 16, - Public Finance together with the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development - h.m. 5:30 p.m., - Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 18, - Public Finance together with the Infrastructure Commission - h.m. 6:30 p.m., - Public Finance - hour. 19. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: diabetes mellitus - hour 10, - Parliamentary Group for: UNESCO World Heritage Site - 3 p.m. 12, - Parliamentary Group for: development of poultry as a strategic branch of the Polish economy - h. 12.15, - Parliamentary Mining and Energy Team - hour 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Energy - hour 14, - Parliamentary Group for: construction of the expressway S12 - hour 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Culture and Tradition of Hunting - hour 16. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u3	Thank you, sir. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: First reading of the Government's bill on supplementary witnessing for persons unable to self-exist (print No 3603). [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] May I have your attention and your seats, please? Please take the floor of the President of the Council of Ministers of Mr Mateusz Morawiecki. [[Some Members stand up, long-term applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much. Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Since the beginning of our term of office, we have been trying to remove glass ceilings. We are trying to remove barriers for these groups of society, for those broad masses of society, which in previous years, in the quarter of the century of the Third Republic, had by far the most difficult. Of course, such groups include families of many children, hence our great 500+ program, since July 1 500+ for the first child as well. These groups were seniors, retired people all the time. Such groups are, of course, persons with disabilities. This is a special group of people who, as a result of an unfortunate fate or even from birth or from some accident, are deprived of the possibility of independent existence. It is a group that, on the part of our society as a whole, requires special care, special care and support. That is why we have decided to carry out another programme - I do not hesitate to call it simply a social programme - which will try to help at least a little bit in life those who are most affected by fate, people with disabilities. [[Applause]] This is a programme, which also, it is very clearly seen, strongly depends on the efficiency of the whole state, on the efficiency of the state. Because it's not like... [[Yes, sir.]] ...in previous years, these changes could have been made in an easy way. This is why, in our predecessors' time, there were no changes possible - because then the resources were flowing like a thrush... [[You didn't advise me right.]] ...and it was not possible to raise these funds to the budget due to the VAT mafia, due to the pathologies already known to us today. I don't want to get too deep in this, but it's an important, very important circumstance. Meanwhile, we have ordered public finances in such a way, introduced the discipline of public finances, that today it is possible to transfer further funds to people with disabilities. In numbers it looks like this, comparing comparable measurements to each other, because sometimes different starting points are given in different statistics. About PLN 15.5 billion in 2015, in 2019 it will be over 20 billion, and taking into account the effect of this law, for which I have a deep conviction that High Izbo will accept it, and a huge request for it, will be in the annual cycle about 23 billion, i.e. definitely above 33, 40% more - so much more expenditure in a few years, far beyond GDP growth or any other such comparative measure. This is very important because it shows that we are allocating a larger pool of funds in proportion to support people with disabilities. Support for people with disabilities must not only mean an envelope marked in blue paint on parking spaces. Blue paint on concrete isn't enough. [[Applause]] These envelopes that we use, this project, 500 PLN each month for people with disabilities, those most disadvantaged by fate, are a fundamental change in the paradigm of state support for people with disabilities. Ladies and gentlemen, this project is supposed to cover about 0.5 million people - probably more, but at this point we are expecting about 0.5 million people - in the first phase of 300 000 and then as a result of the ruling process, it will certainly be even more people, because there are so many of our fellow citizens, who are due to be supported by the state. Democracy must also be a democracy with a conscience. It cannot be a democracy that takes little account of the needs of people with disabilities. This is the measure of humanity. That is why we will also try in the coming years, if voters decide in this way in the autumn, a super-proportionary fund for social spending will be spent on helping people with disabilities. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, our trademark is credibility, it is honesty with respect to our promises. [[Applause]] A few days ago, we adopted the PIT Act by about 6%, from 18% to 17%, i.e. one percentage point. But if you add to that an increase in revenue costs, made for the first time in a dozen years, this tax reduction will be even more significant. So for 25 million Poles paying PIT we decided to lower taxes. [[Applause]] Since July 1st, as promised, we have implemented 500+ for the first child... [[Jagna Marczulajtis-Walczak: But this is not about.]] ...because we're responsible. We knew what we could do three, four years ago, and then after better than we expected, we spent another 20 billion on the first child. [[Applause]] Then, from August 1st, we are implementing a project without tax for young people, to keep all the young people here, so that there are people who will also work for taxes for people with disabilities. [[Applause]] My warm request, ladies and gentlemen, also to the opposition. When we implemented the solidarity fund project a few months ago, our solidarity tax, the vast majority of the Civic Platform did not vote for this project... [[Voice from the room: scandal.]] ...for a project aimed at allocating resources to people with disabilities. The Civic Platform in the vast majority abstained at the time, more were against, a few were in favour. Today, I ask the High House that this project, this civilisedly important project for people with disabilities, proposed by the Government of Law and Justice, be supported by the entire High House. [[Applause]] This is the kind of social support, political action that should be taken outside the context of a political dispute. We propose this, we reach out to the opposition, so that we do not argue for support for people with disabilities. We want to build social policy so that democracy is a democracy of conscience. [[Applause]] High Izbo! Thank you very much for the work that has been done in many places on many levels with many projects for people with disabilities. I firmly believe that this next project will improve the fate of our fellow citizens, the most disadvantaged by life, that it will be an expression of our solidarity and fundamental social justice. I ask the High House to accept this project. Thank you very much. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u5	Thank you, Prime Minister. At the moment, I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Krzysztof Michałkiewicz to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I would like to thank everyone and, in particular, the Prime Minister for the initiative that concerns the people most in need of our support and assistance. I wanted to say hello to all those unable to exist alone who are watching, following the transmission from the Sejm's deliberations. This bill is for you. The proposed law aims to provide additional means to meet the needs of people unable to live on their own because they bear increased costs of working in everyday and social life, care, rehabilitation and medical care. A supplementary benefit of PLN 500 per month may be claimed by persons who are over 18 years of age and whose inability to self-existence has been determined by a judgment on total incapacity for work and self-existence, or by a decision on incapacity to self-existence, or by a decision on total incapacity to work on a farm and self-existence, or by a judgment on total incapacity to serve and self-existence. As you can see, we take into account the various decisions of different insurance institutions, so that any person who is unable to live on his own can benefit from this support. The proposed benefit shall be paid to persons who do not have the right to cash benefits financed by public funds or whose benefit does not exceed the amount of the lowest pension for total incapacity for work. This is very important because there are many misunderstandings, misunderstandings in the public debate, in the media. There is no income criterion here, please, but we want the benefit to go to all those who either do not receive any public benefits or receive benefits that do not exceed the amount of the lowest disability pension. I would like to remind you that the lowest pension for incapacity for work is valued every year. On 1 March, it was wiped out and we assume it will also increase in the following year. It should be noted that the right to supplementary benefits will not be affected by receiving the care allowance and other allowances and benefits paid together with the benefit so far. It must also be strongly emphasized that we exclude from this all kinds of additions: a care supplement, but also a mattress supplement and various kinds of additions that are obtained when witnessing, e.g. an energy depot or an apartment supplement. All such additional benefits, which are linked to the basic benefit, will not affect the receipt of the supplementary benefit. The right to benefit will be established on request - in order to obtain the benefit, the person concerned will have to submit an application - to the person entitled to pay pension benefits and, in the case of persons who do not have the right to cash benefits financed by public funds or who are entitled to social assistance benefits, to the Social Insurance Institution. Once again, you must apply to receive the benefit. The application is submitted to this body, which pays us pensions or pensions. If we do not have the right to any benefits or have the right only to social assistance, we apply to the Social Insurance Institution. Persons having on the date of entry into force of the Act a decision on a significant degree of disability issued by district or voivodeship court teams will be able to apply to the Social Insurance Institution for a decision on incapacity for independent existence within 6 months. Where such a decision is given, the supplementary benefit will be granted from the month of submission of the application. After that period, the right to supplementary benefits will be determined on the basis of the rules laid down in the proposed law, whereas it is noted that the period will not be longer than 30 days from the date of clarification of the last circumstances necessary for the adoption of the decision. We also propose to improve the ruling that is being conducted by the Social Insurance Institution, so that not only doctors, but also other doctors, members of the medical committees, can issue judgments. Of course, there will also be the possibility that people who, due to their independence, cannot leave their place of residence will be reached by the ruling team and judgment will take place at their place of residence. So this is also envisaged as an facilitation for these people. The point is that anyone who needs a judgment of independence gets a ruling. In addition, in order to improve the process of applying for supplementary benefits and reduce the costs involved, it is proposed to amend the provisions of the Social Rent Act in order to determine the total incapacity for work, the juror, with the consent of the applicant, notified no later than during the examination of that person, to determine at the same time the inability of that person to self-exist. As you know, disabled persons, from birth disabled persons or those for whom disability was created before they were old age, may receive a social pension, but in order to receive this social pension, they must have a judgment from the Social Insurance Institution on total incapacity for work. Now, as the total incapacity of these people to work will be determined, it will also be possible to say that they are unable to exist on their own, and later this ruling will be sufficient to seek the benefit of 500+. An important solution included in the submitted project is to guarantee the person entitled to pay the full amount of the benefit. To this end, it is proposed that the supplementary benefit be exempted from deductions and executions. Both the benefit and the costs of handling the award process will be financed by the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities. In order to enable the implementation of the Act without interference and to grant the benefit to persons unable to self-exist, the project provides for the possibility of granting a loan from the Labour Fund to the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities, including the procedure for granting it and the required procedure for the financial plans of the individual Funds. Here it is worth to add that, of course, the benefit of 500+ for people unable to self-exist will be tax-free. It will be exempt from taxes. Also in the case of people who, for example, they benefit from rehabilitation relief, this benefit will not be included. This benefit will be untaxed, will be received in full. At the same time, it will not affect, where the income criterion is required, to receive specific support. The project provides for the entry into force of the Regulation as from 1 October 2019, except for the provisions on special grants for the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities which enter into force on 1 January 2021. Very much for us: the Prime Minister, everyone in our ministry, and everyone in the Social Insurance Institution, is concerned that those who need such support receive this benefit as soon as possible. Hence this quick procedure and also a request to the state to approve this bill As soon as possible. The point is that the Social Insurance Institution will actually start working on preparing to accept applications and to pay the benefit this year. We want it to be in the last quarter of this year and that this benefit goes to people who are often without any means of subsistence or have these means of subsistence very small, incomparable to the costs associated with inability to exist independently, the costs associated with rehabilitation, medical care, care. These people are waiting for this, and they deserve it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u7	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Urszula Ruseck's Law and Justice will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u8	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to you the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the Government's bill on supplementary witnessing to persons unable to self-exist from print no. 3603. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! The Law and Justice Act, which we are looking at, once again proves that it is a credible formation and that it conducts its policy in a responsible, thoughtful and planned manner. [[Applause]] The draft law is the implementation of the announcement made by the President of the Council of Ministers to persons unable to exist independently, concerning 500+ for persons with disabilities, which, due to a breach of the fitness of the body, are wholly dependent on the support of their loved ones and the environment, including the institutional environment, which confirms their ruling by the competent authorities stating their inability to exist independently. The purpose of the regulation is to support those most in need, the most vulnerable, and to provide them with additional means to meet their needs due to the increased costs associated with care, rehabilitation and medical care. High Izbo! The Government of Law and Justice conducts social policy, family policy in a systematic and comprehensive manner. It pursues social policy in such a way and allocates to it funds that no government has ever spent since the transformation. Our signpost is the words of the President, Prof. Lech Kaczyński, who I would like to quote: Only Poland that is just, honest and solidarity can develop, only in such Poland can we use everything that we have gained by our own efforts, which is our success, the work of living generations. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Government of Law and Justice, the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Health and other ministries have been running a number of programmes and activities to support people with disabilities and their carers, and over the course of 4 years expenditure on support for people with disabilities has increased by PLN 4 billion. In a short presentation let me mention only some of the programs supporting people with disabilities. The implementation of the programme was started in 2017, with a budget of over PLN 3 billion by 2021. The programme includes comprehensive solutions, in particular in areas relating to support for pregnant women and their families, early support for the child and his/her family, support and rehabilitation services, housing support, and coordination of support, guidance and information. From the above programme, new places have been created for children with disabilities. The benefit of 500+ from 1 July 2019 is a general benefit and is granted to every child, including about 300,000. children with disabilities up to 18 years of age. Let me remind you that earlier the income criterion was increased for children with disabilities and amounted to PLN 1200. At the beginning of January 2019 the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities was launched. For this year, funds of PLN 647 million are secured for activities such as care services for people with disabilities, rest-care, care and residential centres. The next programme is the availability+, for which PLN 23 billion has been allocated in the perspective of the years 2018-2025. Work is being carried out on the first strategy for people with disabilities in Poland. Services for care and assistance for disabled people are being developed by increasing annual funding for environmental self-help homes, WTCs and ZAZs. Professional activation of disabled persons is carried out through projects and programmes implemented by PFRON. The amount of benefits and benefits addressed to disabled persons and their carers is systematically increased. Thus, since 1 September 2018, the Act increasing the social pension has entered into force, aligning it with the lowest pension due to total inability to work. [[Applause]] Thank you very much to the Government of Law and Justice, the Minister, the other ministries for all their activities for the benefit of people with disabilities. Thank you so much for this bill. In the first place, it will support those who are weakest, those who will not claim funds. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: Time.]] Therefore, Law and Justice fully supports the bill. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u9	Thank you. The Civic Platform by Mr Sławomir Piechot will speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u10	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! The Prime Minister spoke a lot about democracy of conscience, about the subjective treatment of people with disabilities. Prime Minister, how can we reconcile the initiative of Members of the Law and Justice to deprive people with disabilities of their right to vote in correspondence because they can trade in votes? That's what the PiS Members said. [[The voice from the hall: shame, shame.]] Is this a decent treatment for people with disabilities? Is that respect? [[Voice from the room: Final project.]] Reach for the protocols, as the Members of the PiS have said. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] [[Voice from the room: Do not disturb.]] [[Voice from the room: No one said that.]] Prime Minister, for the first time in 10 years the employment of people with disabilities in civil service has been falling. Is this the subjective treatment of people with disabilities? Is this a decent treatment for people with disabilities? The Prime Minister also took the liberty of mocking the blue envelopes. I think it's the simplest answer. The Lord said of envelopes covered with blue paint, what does that mean? [[Voice from the room: That's not enough.]] Prime Minister, for many people, this means the only way to reach the place where they deal with important matters. [[Applause]] I don't want to make fun of you. I'm asking for proper treatment. And going back to the correspondence vote, I would like to say that the change in this system means that many older people who do not have a disability ruling cannot vote in correspondence at the moment, and that they do not specifically apply for a disability ruling just to be able to vote. So this system has been drastically limited. You could say - this is how many people take it - that this project is a step in the right direction. Then why, Prime Minister, have you escaped public consultation even to the slightest extent? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] What were you afraid of when it came to this consultation? Were you afraid of that, for example. People with disabilities and their loved ones will ask what happens to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of October 2014? [[Applause]] The paradox and, I'm sorry, the hypocrisy here is that this sentence was demanded by Members of the Law and Justice. The Court confirmed that benefits to caretakers of disabled children and adults with disabilities must not be differentiated. Four years of your governments are passing, and you haven't touched the subject, you haven't taken the slightest step to execute the sentence you demanded. [[Applause]] Wasn't this consultation because they could report, in particular, to older mothers who once went to early retirement because of taking care of disabled children, and now their pensions often amount to less than 1 000. Evil? [[Applause]] They ask not so much, to equalize their pension with the amount of the care provision. The project even existed in the Senate, i.e. thanks to the PiS senators, he left the Senate's petition committee, but the Senate rejected it by a majority of the PiS senators. So that's probably what people might be asking during these consultations if they were held. At least to the slightest extent. Probably during the consultation, there would also be questions about the cost of medicines, the cost of medical supplies. The simplest wheelchair - I do not want to develop this topic - the simplest hearing aid for a deaf child: how much does it cost the family and how much can you get from the NFZ? And often it is up to this hearing aid to decide whether this child will go through the next stages of education or whether this child will ever be alone. That's probably what people would be asking during this consultation. Finally, some would ask why 4 billion zlotys from the Labour Fund... How many times did you accuse us of e.g. Nurses' apprenticeships are financed by the Labour Fund? And now PLN 4 billion on unpredictable terms, including the possibility that this loan will be non-refundable... Has the Social Dialogue Council been asked about this? Did employers and trade unions comment on these 4 billion PLN from the Labour Fund? [[Applause]] Prime Minister! This isn't building a coherent system, which is why you didn't want any consultation. This is a prosthesis hurriedly applied to the system. As Dr. Paweł Kubicki of the Naughty Children's Association and the School of Economics says, this is an electoral impulse to create an impression especially in families where there is no person with disabilities, that we show concern for these families, because in the case of those who actually face problems, there are many more important and urgent things to do. You haven't done it in four years, and now with this hastily prepared prosthetic, you want to create the impression that you're doing it. That's not true, Prime Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u11	Mr Mateusz Morawiecki, President of the Council of Ministers, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Some things need to be corrected, because if someone says, as I said, that these envelopes marked in blue are not enough, it is not a mockery, but it is an expression of the greatest belief that they are not enough that what was done by 2015, is far too little. [[Applause]] I'm sure there's a lot of numbers here. Just look at the increase in spending on people with disabilities during the years of the Civic Platform, i.e. four years before our governments. [[But we're here today. We're here today.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u13	Please don't disturb me.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u14	It is enough, ladies and gentlemen, to look at and compare 2011 to 2015 and 2016 to 2019. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Let's compare.]] [[Voice from the room: Do not interrupt.]] The Member is now trying to scream at me. Madame, all you have to do is look at these numbers, just look at the percentage. [[Voice from the hall: For your salary too.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u15	Member, I warn you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u16	Numbers don't lie. If we increase from PLN 15.5 billion, at the end of this year or in 2020 there will be more than PLN 23 billion. I'll give you a percentage. Look at these measures. Yes, these measures will always be insufficient, I admit it. Of course, we all know that these are people who need even more support, and that is what we are aiming for. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Last year we implemented a project that cost the state budget, the National Health Fund budget and not only, because also the budget of the Ministry of Health, a total of about PLN 1 billion, was just about subsidies for the purchase of one hundred dozen medical articles. I'm not saying he's dealing with any problems with medical supplies for people with disabilities. I'm sure he does. However, if this has not been done before, and today it is possible to receive subsidies for the purchase of a hundred and a dozen medical articles, is it a step in the right direction or not? [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] It's a step in the right direction, so there's a hot request that we reunite, not scream... [[They did not punish Members financially.]] ...they did not use arguments that are wrong, wrong from a purely budgetary point of view, accountant, because then it is indeed clear that we are not as a High Chamber united for the benefit of people with disabilities. So I would just like to respond in this way and ask once again, to call for the solidarity of all, so that it really is a step in the right direction. If we spend 3 billion PLN, if we spend 3 billion PLN for social purposes, for people with disabilities, this is certainly a step in the right direction. Now, thanks to our budget policy, we can afford to make this extra effort. And it's nothing to do with the ad hoc response, because we did it three years ago - a big change, an increase in pension... [[Voice from the room: Social.]] ...to a minimum pension, a social pension up to the level of PLN 1100, but also to care benefits, welfare benefits. And now this movement, yes, is the largest, this is the most important change - 500 PLN every month for about 0.5 million people with disabilities. That's all I wanted to add here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u17	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Szczaj, Kukiz Poselski Club15, has the floor now. [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, corrigendum.]] After the club appearances... [[Voice from the room: Why not now?]] You're welcome, my fellow Member. [[Voice in the room: corrected.]] [[Game in the O.R.]] There'll be a corrigendum after the club appearances. The Member has the floor now. Please don't disturb me.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u18	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz club15 in relation to the government's draft act on supplementary witnessing for people unable to exist on their own. Before I go specifically to this project, I will refer to the words of the Prime Minister and in the context of this project. It is difficult to criticize a project that really improves the life situation of the most deprived, independent, financially and homely people. This is needed, Prime Minister, and this project is expected and indeed in some way responds to the needs of some of the environment of the disabled, the most affected. But I will refer to what was presented in the position and the Prime Minister and the chairman of the committee to these systemic changes. I've been talking about these system changes for four years. This may be one of my last speeches, but I'm going to talk about them because it's necessary. Prime Minister, this project is another pain pill. This is a pain pill, she's needed because it hurts can't, can't these people with disabilities, most people with pain, but these aren't systemic changes. This project was not consulted. I don't know why. The government has been consulting for 4 years, spending a lot of money, many projects being consulted and these environments are supposed to be involved in the discussion all the time. They're not supposed to -- they're participating, because I know that's the kind of consultation that's going on. I don't know why this project wasn't consulted. But then I consulted again because I come from this environment, and this project raises a number of questions and questions, which is why I'm just going to say these questions and doubts. First of all, doubts arise from the fact that the government has not undertaken a major reform of the system of judgment for four years, even as it committed itself. These doubts probably wouldn't have happened if we had a really organized system of ruling and the money that the Prime Minister is spending, big money, going to exactly where it is needed. So people who are absolutely independent would get more than 500 zlotys, because they are less, they would get more money, because the 1,400 zlotys are not enough to meet the needs, and the people who are disabled, but who can be given jobs that can be rehabilitated, would be somehow taken care of at the levels where they need it. But first of all, this system needs to be reformed. And there's no progress here. So the pain pill will be short-lived, but it doesn't really fix the diseased organism. Next thing you know, there's a certain income criterion. Such a criterion must be found, I understand it, but it is very low. And here we are talking about the impact on the labour market. I do not want to criticize the fact that people with disabilities who have a significant degree of disability will get this money, but also work because there is no exemption here, there should be no exemption. On the other hand, this project will have an impact on the labour market because people will be difficult, increasingly difficult to convince, and the Prime Minister has such data that in the last year 2,700 people with disabilities have largely and moderately resigned from employment. These are the people who actually earn their 500+ and they'll go back to the budget. Then we can't get rid of it. One last case of funding. The Labour Fund. Prime Minister, another thing to be repaired - the Labour Fund, the Labour Offices, a profound reform which will contribute to the economic system, to the economy, and support for those who are not yet ready to enter the labour market will go into the social assistance system. We made such proposals at the very beginning. These are reforms carried out by Slovakia. I ask the Prime Minister to think about it because it is very necessary. 12 billion PLN from the Labour Fund is not used effectively. The Prime Minister knows this because NIK shows how the labour offices function every year. So I'm talking about the major reforms that we're still calling for, and we want this to be on the stand and we want to talk about fixing this system. I am making an amendment - I will go back to this income criterion - because I believe that it is not possible to harm a disabled person to a large extent, which has 1,200 PLN of pension, e.g. The family, because that's what she's gonna get from her dead father, and she's not gonna give it to her. I think that the income criterion of 1100 PLN is really too small and many people will miss out on this criterion by a few cents. So let's assume that this is going to be an average, but... minimum national wage, at least minimum national wage. I am making such an amendment and I ask you to consider this in committee because many people simply because of a few pennies, really a few pennies, will be excluded from this 500 PLN. I don't know if this criterion is right, but really, at least it's equal to... [[♪ The bell ♪]] ... It's about the sense of justice that those people who work too will be on the same level. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u19	Thank you very much, Member. Madame, this is the first reading, and it is only at second reading that you can make an amendment. Mrs Urszula Pasławska, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u20	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! We, Members of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland, do not need to convince us about projects that support society, projects that support the weakest groups of society. We will support this bill because it is better to help than none, but we absolutely demand that the income threshold be eliminated. This benefit should be granted to every person regardless of income, because, first of all, in this form, you divide the disabled into better and worse, more or less worthy of help. And secondly, this bill will be deactivating, and I would say that it will punish for work. Because if, despite the difficult situation, a disabled person or his/her guardian is faced with the challenge of professional activity, then they will not receive state support as a reward. If 500+ has been introduced for everyone regardless of their income threshold, whether they work or not, why can't they be introduced in this case? This is not a social policy, it is at best or at best social engineering. The disabled say that they feel deceived, that they are wronged by fate, and that they are deceived by this government. I remember three and a half years ago you said here in this room, how you would support everyone - and those weak, and the disabled. What happened in the last four years? Where's the life program? Apparently, Prime Minister Szydło and Minister Rafalska left for Brussels with you. In times of global crisis, we have supported the guardians of people with disabilities in such a way that they receive monthly the equivalent of the lowest salary. This is due to the decision of Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish. Today, people with disabilities feel humiliated by this law. It's unbecoming, and it's unethical. [[My God... how can you?]] The measure of civilization is above all the support and attitude towards the weakest ones. And although we managed to carry out and implement the 500+ programme - I would remind you that the Polish People's Party was the only opposition party that supported the programme - I have the overwhelming impression that you placed a cross on other responsibilities of the state. In the Seym lies our program, the PSL Act about the addition of 500 PLN without any legal wrinkles... [[Eight years.]] [[Now you're folding?]] [[Voice from the room: You haven't done anything in eight years.]] ...no stars, no writings written in small print, which responds to protesters here recently. Ladies and gentlemen! I urge you not to act like a smart banker and not push solutions that seem to help people with disabilities, and in fact a large part of them exclude them. Finally, I will say: Poland is one, do not divide Poles. [[Everyone until '67. Let's get to work.]] It's time to stop arguing with Poles, and it's time to stop arguing with Poles, people with disabilities. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: All to the 67th year.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u21	Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, near Now!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I've been listening to your speech. You used a few phrases that... In fact, you used statements that were used by protesters a year ago in the Sejm. You said that protecting people with disabilities was a measure of humanity. You said you had to fight for the dignity of these people, that this is very important. I wonder what's happened this year that you've changed your mind so much, so dramatically. And I wouldn't be surprised at those words, and I would even applaud you if I heard a word from the speaker today: I'm sorry. Sorry about all the people, about the 12 who protested here for 40 days on the floors. And I'll tell you why. There are people sitting here who despised parents and disabled people who protested. Let me remind you that Mr Zalek accused the parents of children with disabilities, that they treat their children like live shields. Sitting here in the O.R., no longer sitting... Mrs. Bernadette Krynicka, sitting in the courtroom, threatened, and I quote, she would have found a bill on these parents. She accused those parents of using disabled children and manipulating them. And she said one more thing, when Jakub Hartwich asked her to talk, that she didn't have a partner to talk to. These are quotes. What did Marek Suski say? Marek Suski talked about protesting mothers that ladies want live cash because they want to go to the movies, to the theatre and to the pool. Mr Michał Dworczyk said that meeting the protesters' demands could lead to abuse. Richard Terlecki, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, said you didn't have the heart to keep so many disabled people in the Sejm. And Mrs. Arciszewska-Mielewczyk said that she has more interesting activities than dealing with legislation that improves the situation of people with disabilities. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: I did not say this, please do not lie. Don't lie to me. I didn't say that.]] People from your club, from your party, behaved in an unworthy and wicked way towards those who demanded these 500 zlotys. I would like you to have the courage, because I do not think that those Members I have mentioned by name have the courage to come here and apologize to James Hartwich, Adrian Glinka and the others. But you may have the courage to come here and apologize for all of this, for all the reprehensible words that came a year ago in the Sejm for people with disabilities. [[Applause]] I expect that from you. With regard to the law itself, we could actually applaud, because for 40 days these people demanded that this request be met. Unfortunately, this proposal you're making is like a small print deal that no one reads at the bank. There are a lot of things out there that unfortunately exclude a lot of people with disabilities from getting this kind of help. You should eliminate any criterion, any criterion. This shouldn't be at all. After all, children get 500+ and none of the parents are burdened with a criterion. They get rich, millionaires. Why do you put so high a criterion? Why is it so important? I just can't understand it, nor can people with disabilities who write about it in Internet forums. One of the people wrote how much contempt it takes for people with disabilities. This is rudeness to the power of entej. I'm talking about that criterion. These are people who are incapable of living from birth, these are people who are not like us, born, can walk, can speak, can do anything else, work, only they are unable to live from birth. And the criterion is actually an even greater humiliation for these people, which is why I would like you to give up on this. And I have a message from Jakub Hartwich. His friend Simon Maciaszek is locked in four walls, disabled from birth, and he, if this bill were in that shape, will not get that money. You know why, Prime Minister? Because his dad's dead, and he's got his dad's pension, and he's way beyond that. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] Give up this criterion because you're leading people with disabilities to be sorted out again. And let me repeat: I expect you, Prime Minister, to apologize to all those with disabilities for how they were treated last year. [[Applause]] [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: It is good that you do not rule...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u23	Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, near Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u24	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Circle of Members of Free and Solidarnia, I present my position on the government's draft act on supplementary witnessing for people unable to exist independently. This draft law provides for monthly financial support in the form of 500 PLN for persons unable to live on their own. Additional measures may be requested by persons whose amount of benefits does not exceed the amount of the lowest pension for total incapacity for work, i.e. PLN 1100 per month. It is important that the proposed additional benefit is to be exempt from tax and not to be taken into account in the calculation of the income entitlement to other benefits. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki said that the human measure of state power is how we treat our weakest citizens. I believe that in the last four years, making many changes that make life easier for people with disabilities, the current government has shown that our country is very strong. The aim is to increase social pensions by PLN 360, from PLN 865.03 to today's amount of PLN 1100, to increase for the first time from PLN 153 to PLN 184.42 in the last 12 years the amount of care allowance, by increasing the minimum salary to increase the care provision, which is PLN 1583 net, increase in the amount of special care allowance, the programme These are just some of the solutions put in place to improve the quality of life of people with disabilities and their families. Of course, there are more of them and there are still announcements to introduce further, like another increase in the nursing allowance in November. In total, the care allowance will increase by about 40%. Observing the policies of the current government, I have no doubt that the promises will be fulfilled. I am pleased - and I think it is worth emphasising - that the current government of the United Right is responsible. He does not say: there is no money and there will be no money, but he also does not promise what he is unable to fulfill at the moment. Now, among other things. Thanks to economic growth, thanks to VAT sealing, thanks to the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities, this money is and is used to support our weakest citizens. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Piechota spoke about the fact that the funds came from the Labour Fund. Yeah, it's true, but it's part of the truth. About PLN 4 billion is allocated to the entire project and 600 million PLN is allocated to the Labour Fund. I think it's worth telling the whole truth. The Free and Solidarni Circle supports this project in its entirety. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u25	Thank you very much. We've finished our club appearances. Is the Member corrected? [[Yes...]] Here you go, one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u26	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! I am pleased that the Prime Minister has confirmed that parking spaces for people with disabilities are a good way of supporting people with disabilities. Your call for us to talk about this over party, political divisions is, in principle, very close to me, but I think that the fundamental argument between us is whether we treat people with disabilities. really subjective, or are we just saying that we treat subjectively. Prime Minister, please be interested in how many people with disabilities are employed in the Prime Minister's firm, what the employment of people with disabilities looks like in the various ministries. There are two good examples: the Ministry of Labour and the Social Security Office. A programme has been in place for years, which shows that people with disabilities can be employed. In many other ministries, people with disabilities, although they report, meet the criteria, are not accepted. It is proof that people with disabilities are treated seemingly seriously, and they are not really respected. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And here, unfortunately, is this small step - from the fact that we care about them and...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u27	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u28	...we treat them caringly, to the fact that we treat people with disabilities with pity.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u29	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u30	And this is a fundamental dispute between us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u31	You will now speak with the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy Bożena Borys-Raccoon. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u32	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Prime Minister, At first, a few words from each other, from the heart. As a new minister, I would like to assure you that no one in the United Right Government lacks empathy, understanding for the problems of all Poles, especially those Poles who need our support most. The only answer I can answer is that the income criterion applies only to public funds. This man who receives his father's pension does not qualify, so to speak, to be excluded from this public criterion, so that he will certainly get this 500 PLN if, of course, he meets this basic condition. We're at the beginning of a process on this important bill. She's gonna be held at a committee meeting. I hope we can do it today. All those in need of help, those unable to exist alone, I would like to assure you that with extraordinary seriousness we are leaning over their problems, over their fate, and we want this to be carried out quite dignifiedly. I apologize in advance for what I'm going to have to say right now. You're talking about the opposition state that what's happened so far isn't much. Let me just say this, or let me actually remind you that when the United Right Government took over in 2015, there was a country that unfortunately forgot that 12% Poles, 12% citizens are people with disabilities, more than 4.5 million Poles, who deserve comprehensive and systemic state aid. Let me remind you that in 2015 15 400 million PLN was spent to support people with disabilities. Already in 2018, the government of the United Right has allocated 4 billion PLN more, i.e. PLN 19 400 million. Unfortunately, in 2015 there were no comprehensive and far-reaching support programmes, programmes that should not be satisfied with short-term, often apparent assistance, but support and integrate people with disabilities in a diverse field, social, health, professional. I will mention three multi-billion-dollar programmes of our government, which now give people with disabilities a chance for a better life: it is a accessibility programme+ - PLN 23 billion for the years 2018 What was the reality in 2015? Less than PLN 740 gross social pension for disabled persons unable to work, PLN 153 of care allowance, whose amount has not changed for years, special care allowance and care allowance - both on the same, fixed level since introduction, i.e. PLN 709,90. As soon as the United Right Government was sworn in, it took the first of many decisions to support people with disabilities. It concerned the group that needed this assistance most, families with children with disabilities. On 11 February 2016, the Sejm passed a law on State aid to raise children and since the start of the programme in April 2016, the income criterion for the first child in families with disabled children was 50%. higher than the basic criterion. Thanks to this year, families with disabled children received PLN 1420 million from the state budget. In 2016, I will remind you, part of the year, the benefits paid were PLN 990 million, totaling PLN 220 000. disabled children with annual support for each of the amounts of 6 thousand. zł. From 1 July this year. We've expanded this group by 80,000. children with disabilities. This means that all children from birth to the age of 18 receive support from this program. According to our calculations, it's about 300,000. children. Unlike previous governments, we regularly raise benefits for people with disabilities and their carers. We listen to the voices of the environment of people with disabilities. One of the demands of this group was to equalise the social pension with the lowest pension paid by the ZUS for total incapacity for work. This was a priority for the environment of people with disabilities. And we have fulfilled this request. [[Applause]] From 1 September 2018, the Act entered into force, and I will remind you, with effect from 1 June 2018, increasing the social pension to 100% of the amount of the lowest pension for total incapacity for work. Since March this year it is already 1100 PLN, i.e. about 360 PLN more than it was in 2015, when the social pension amounted to 739 PLN. That's an increase of almost 50% in 4 years - exactly 49%. [[Applause]] In total, annual expenditure on social pensions between 2015 and 2018 increased by PLN 800 million. For the first time in 12 years, we've raised the welfare allowance. [[Applause]] which receives more than 911,000. Recipients. In 2015, the care allowance amounted to PLN 153. In November Ub. We raised it to PLN 184. The second tranche of this increase will take place in November this year. The benefit will also increase by PLN 31 and will amount to PLN 215.84 from November. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, this is important.]] In total, the amount of care allowance increased by almost 40% under the rule of the United Right. For the first time since its introduction, we have raised the amount of special care and care allowance - everyone has increased immediately by 20%. Special welfare allowance increased in November Ub. PLN 100 - up to PLN 620. The caretaker's allowance at that time also increased by PLN 100 and currently amounts to PLN 620. In addition, there is a total of PLN 226 of social and health contributions paid from the state budget under these benefits. The amount of another benefit, which is important for parents with disabilities, has been linked to an increase in the minimum wage and is thus subject to annual valorization. [[Applause]] [[Bravo.]] The very good economic situation, low unemployment, the increase in average wages and the rise in lowest wages allow us to raise minimum wages for work, leading to a high value-added care provision. I will remind you that in 2019 the amount of the care provision is PLN 1583 net. That is 383 PLN more than it amounted to in 2015. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, bravo!]] We have not forgotten about people with disabilities also during the introduction of a single monetary benefit this year, so-called. "Emeritures+'. In addition to a group of pensioners, it was also received by people who are receiving a social pension. That's a total of 282,000. additional payments to disabled adults whose tragic fate prevented them from taking up work and acquiring social security rights. Today we are taking another step and we want to support the care of a group that needs our care immediately because it is incapable of living on its own. We present a draft act on supplementary witnessing for people unable to exist independently. About half a million adults in Poland are 100% dependent on the care of their loved ones. [[Jagna Marczulajtis-Walczak: What are you doing?]] They cannot work, and let us remember that work is not only a source of income, but also a confirmation of their own value, their own usefulness, which is undoubtedly necessary for everyone, and especially for people with disabilities. These are those for whom daily activities are often the most difficult challenge, and when satisfying the basic needs of life they are given to their carers, often to older parents. They're people unable to live on their own. They are those who do not complain about themselves - they do not participate in protests, and in silence they wait in their own homes until someone hears them. Along with them, their loved ones will be waiting. [[So, did you hear that? Did you hear that?]] Along with them are loved ones who look after them every day and will often never hear the words: Mom, Dad, because their adult child cannot speak. [[Jagna Marczulajtis-Walczak: Really?]] We do not forget that carers are often elderly people who themselves need support, help, and a moment of rest. Hence the wide range of various support programs for these carers. Within the framework of this purely human solidarity, we want to help those unable to exist on their own. [[Jagna Marczulajtis-Walczak: A lie.]] The benefit will be financed by the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities, which consists of employers and the richest Poles. [[Jagna Marczulajtis-Walczak: No...]] Isn't there a better example of social solidarity than when people who have achieved high comfort of life through their work are now sharing their fruits with those who are no longer able to work for the rest of their lives and, more importantly, are unable to live on their own? Although they would very much like to do so, their disability did not allow them to work out social security benefits in a normal way - like healthy people. They cannot work, and let us remember that work, I will remind you, is not just a source of income, but, above all, a confirmation of their own dignity. We want to provide people unable to live on their own, with additional means to meet their life's needs, as they face daily expenses related to care, rehabilitation, often with medical care. [[Jagna Marczulajtis-Walczak: What are you doing?]] The additional benefit of PLN 500 will at least partially cover these expenses. We are aware that a group of people with disabilities is an extremely diverse group. We want to dedicate support to each of these people according to their expectations and needs, and above all as far as we can, so strongly we are expanding our multisectoral programmes, a network of care services and assistance for the disabled. We do not want to divide these people, because it is a very diverse group and we want to reach each of these people with a diverse form of support. The provision of 500+ for people unable to live on their own will not be a one-off aid. This solution is a system-based solution aimed at improving the situation of people unable to live independently in the long term. I cordially encourage all your fellow Members to support this very expected bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u33	Thank you very much. The Sejm has determined... Excuse me. Now, let's get to the questions. 38 people have asked questions at the moment. I'm closing the list of people who have been asked questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. The first question is asked by Mrs Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u34	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The proposed act is nothing more than pre-election propaganda in your execution. These limitations really eliminate a large group of disabled people when it comes to receiving this supplement. So I have a question: Why do you not want to help the disabled? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u35	Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u36	High Izbo! Prime Minister! Do you remember this picture? This picture is a symbol. It shows the cathedrals installed in the Seym to hide the protest from the world to hide the problem from the world, which is the unfavorable situation of people with disabilities and their guardians. High Izbo! This photograph also shows the empathy of this part of the room, the empathy of the Prime Minister, the legendary decency, compassion, solidarity. High Izbo! It was 40 days of anesthetic, inhuman treatment, degradation, elevator cutting, no walking, no media removal. [[Voice from the O.R.: You haven't done anything for eight years.]] Forty days of contempt, the language of hatred against the mattress, the suffering and the desperate... [[Voice from the O.R.: You've been working for four years.]] [[Voice from the room: Take care of yourselves.]] ...the slimy and disgusting protesters by your party propaganda, to which you gave 2 billion PLN. [[Where have you been?]] We also remember how the marshal... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Kuchciński... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Where have you been?]] [[Come on, he's a liberal. Don't be surprised.]] [[Start talking about facts, not liberals.]] [[Vaseline.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u37	Mrs Magdalena Kochan, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u38	High Izbo! The situation is that no matter how many beautiful words we say about this environment, we must follow the words of actions. My question is: What help will a person who has 1,200 zł pension after a deceased parent receive in connection with these new proposals for changes in the law, and her guardian - 620 zł care allowance? Will he ever get it? If not, don't say that beautiful words are followed by deeds, because if it's like with moms who raised a child alone, they were earning the lowest national income and were excluded from help by July 1st this year... [[Where have you been?]] ...any social assistance, don't brag about it and don't brag about success. Let's see, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Like all of them... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u39	Mr Grzegorz July, Civic Platform Club. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] One minute for all of you, Madame. [[Jagna Marczulajtis-Walczak: Not for everyone, because you have longer for your people.]] [[Voice from the room: Sit down.]] Same thing.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u40	Maybe I'll start. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the question about which task the mother of a disabled person asked me to do. Namely people with a significant degree of disability, who are incapable of independent existence, should, of course, have the right to support by parents. It is about three situations: the first - the parent is dead and the survivor's pension is granted permanently for the rest of his life; the second - the parents are divorced and the child support is granted permanently; the third - the parents live, both deal with the disabled child; one of them works because the parent who is directly caring for the disabled person, if he is providing care, does not have the right to make even gold. The disabled himself may have either a social pension or his pension, or nothing, if he was unlucky and couldn't earn his pension rights, and he was too old to get a social pension. And now we have a proposal for a law that shows that only in one situation this pension is added to the income of a disabled person. In short, those who have lost their parents may be punished for it. How are you gonna fix that? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u41	Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u42	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Changing the system for helping people with disabilities is necessary and this is without doubt. However, I believe that if the Polish State can afford to maintain specialists in PR at the NBP or for high salaries and checks-in of managers of companies of the State Treasury, the Polish State can certainly also afford to ensure a decent life for people with disabilities. If you think that giving directly before the elections 500 PLN, which is burdened with income rigors, will solve the situation of people with disabilities, then I tell you, this is far too little. Why didn't you give that money to people with disabilities four years ago when you started ruling? We need comprehensive solutions, comprehensive changes to improve our living situation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] persons with disabilities. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u43	Member Jagna Marczulajtis-Walczak, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u44	Prime Minister Morawiecki! You spoke so beautifully of these envelopes. I know that President Kaczyński knows his best about envelopes in Poland, but I'll show you... Prime Minister, please listen and watch. [[The Prime Minister would listen.]] ...I'll show you how you are, how your ministers respect envelopes for people with disabilities. [[Voice from the room: Questions.]] This is Mrs. Anna Zalewska's limo, which stands right in a handicapped spot. [[Applause]] [[Not next door?]] Prime Minister, can you listen? The second photograph depicts the limo of Minister Antoni Macierewicz. That's how you respect the disabled. [[Voice from the room: Copernica+.]] The third photograph depicts public television, i.e. TVP+ car, TVP PiS, which also parks on an envelope for disabled people. [[Applause]] Why do you now decide to introduce 500+ for the disabled? Because there's an election going on. What's more, you say if you win the election, you'll expand... [[But we don't promise, we give.]] In fact... [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're announcing that... [[Voice from the room: We understand...]] [[Vice Marshal disables microphone, applause]] [[More pictures.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u45	Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u46	Mr. Marshal! First of all, I think the Prime Minister has finished taking pictures. Secondly, I think the Prime Minister is listening to us. [[Voice from the room: He doesn't listen.]] Because you, as a banker, should have solid arguments, and you didn't have those. You haven't talked to disabled people for 40 days. 400 days of people with disabilities were waiting. And why aren't you consulting? Not to hear about their problems? I am sympathetic with all the questions that my clubmate, Mr Piechot, presented. The issue of salaries and benefits of the EWK, which are lower than the care provision, has not been resolved. These people have been working for 20 years. Secured housing, tutors, benefits of the EWK. [[And why did you lead to this? Why didn't you?]] And it cannot be that the Prime Minister talks about democracy, that conscience is a measure of humanity. For 400 days, you turned your backs. [[♪ The bell ♪]] from people with disabilities... [[Vice Marshal disables microphone, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Why?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u47	Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform Club. [[Why didn't you remember about the disabled?]] [[Sir, we'll talk in the other room.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u48	Well, the Prime Minister has just left the room to show how much he is interested in the debate on benefits for those unable to live alone. He was just as interested in what was happening 400 days ago in the Seym. Then there was a time for such a mucky, heartwarming speech about the sensitivity of the ruling conscience. We didn't see it coming. Now - it should be noted that carers of persons unable to live on their own when taking care of an adult do not themselves have the means to live on their own. Sławomir Piechota spoke about this. This project does not solve this structural problem. At the same time, the introduction of an income criterion of PLN 1100 is a kind of mockery, the more that the other pluses have no criterion. That's the question. How many people have you excluded from the system, from this benefit, and why? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are these... [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: And your Prime Minister escaped.]] [[Vice Marshal disables microphone, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u49	Mrs Alicia Chybick, Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u50	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I hope you're listening, and if you're not, I'm sure someone will give it to you. With regard to this benefit, which is very important for independent persons, there should be no exclusion. This money is given at a time when there is a shortage of drugs in pharmacies, when the infoline often answers that you need to drive a few hundred kilometers, so that the missing medicine for the dependant is brought when there are nightmare queues for rehabilitation. If the money that is going to be given to independent people at the moment is to be spent on these purposes, then it is absolutely impossible to rule out all the others. They will also get medicines that are not known where, they will be queued, unfortunately also in queues to specialist doctors. Do they have to invite them home privately? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u51	Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u52	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The Prime Minister and the Minister spoke very much about the care system for people with disabilities. You can listen, but, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask what this system is going to look like, since there is a big problem here, because the most important link of this system, i.e. district teams on disability issues, no longer have money for business. They can't rule because in the first quarter the money ran out. The rest is in reserve, but no one's starting it. I'm asking for a written reply - when county disability boards receive money. Their work is wasted because, in fact, they can't judge. What's there to say about the big system if the primary link doesn't work? And we pretend we don't see it. Ladies and gentlemen, this is just a scandal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Well done, Mrs Chernov.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u53	Mr Paweł Kobyliński, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u54	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask you whether there are resources in the coming years to value this benefit, because the fact that food prices, for example, go very high, I think we all know and that is not the point of the dispute here. I will not agree with the Minister here, because food prices have increased much more than 2%. You can check that out. Therefore, I would like to ask about the valorisation, the security of these measures, because the word "system" was probably changed by all cases here, while the lack of such valorisation shows that it is, however, a selective rather than systemic solution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u55	Mrs Elżbieta Stępień, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u56	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The idea is absolutely right, but the execution, as usual, leaves much to be desired. It is a good thing that this is the first reading and we can discuss. That is why, on this occasion, I would like to appeal to the Minister and ask for the possibility of changing the income criterion, it is about the level of the income criterion. That's the most important thing. Let us let people work and grow, not stop them from doing so. And the second point came out of that podium when you said that people who receive family pensions stay and that remains. I would like it to sound very strongly, because in the environment, however, this issue is not clear, there is a lack of precision here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u57	Thank you. Mrs Monika Rosa, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u58	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There were many words here about the democracy of consciences. Because conscience would require a profound and complete change in the care system for persons with disabilities. I wanted to ask you, Minister, why there has been no change in the system of case law concerning persons with disabilities within four years. I wanted to ask you what happened to people who are, for example. fully intellectually sound, but without the help of a carer or assistant they are unable to make themselves a meal or go to the toilet, wash or go to work. In Gliwice the hour of private care of the assistant costs PLN 20.25. These people, when their carers die, go to the welfare home because they are unable to function on their own, because the state has not solved the problem of assistant services, care or shelters. Is 500 zloty enough for them to live on their own, work and have a sense of dignity?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u59	Mr Andrzej Gawron, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u60	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! At the outset, I would like to thank the opposition for asking substantive questions that do not create bad emotions, because the issue of disabled people should be outside the political divisions in order to seek the best possible solutions in the discussion. We have a specific bill which, as the Prime Minister said, gives people with disabilities the benefit of PLN 300 to 500, which they will be able to use according to their needs. Of course, financial support alone is not the most important thing. They report to my parliamentary office, e.g. people who have trouble travelling PKP. And you can put in place organizational solutions to help them in this area. As far as the financial threshold is concerned, I have a question as to whether the methods of some buffering were considered, so that it was not a rigid threshold, but had some buffering.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u61	Mr Piotr Pyzik, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u62	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask how the scale of the new proceedings is estimated, which are the result of the application for a decision requiring the benefit proposed. And the second question is: At what time will the medical examiners and doctors present be able to handle these requests? Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u63	Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u64	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill is another dummy designed for the election campaign. It's not good when you try to build an image at the expense of the people most affected by fate. That is why I ask the rulers why this law was actually created. The environment of people with disabilities does not hide its outrage over what you are proposing to them. You didn't have a traditional public consultation. Why do people with disabilities continue to be discriminated against? You're introducing income thresholds to actually get as little support as possible. Prime Minister, it's a shame you left. Maybe you can hear me somewhere. What about the EWK pensions? Do you have any idea how badly the victims of the download are? [[♪ The bell ♪]] So under-retirement?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u65	Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u66	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! This is not the language of the debate. Too much aggression and mutual regret. This is not the way to understand and adopt system solutions. But you can't go indifferently next to a colleague of the Infantry. We now have an economic boom in Europe and around the world. We've got more money. It's a good thing the state in the Seym is fixing your mistake against the protesters. I was in the Seym at hours. 2 a.m., I talked to these people, and I was ashamed to be an envoy. I came home and signed a contract for 500 zlotys per family to set an example for others. It's been going on till today. I'm sick of Parkinson's disease myself, and I know what's coming for me, and I know the cost. I look at these people, and my heart bursts with infirmity when I see their tears, and in my eyes I hope that we can help them really. Why? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The inmates under electronic surveillance are excluded from this bill when, let's call it, are they home? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u67	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Club Civic Platform. There is no Member. Mr Antoni Duda, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u68	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are discussing here a very important, and very expected by those most disadvantaged by fate, a law on help for those unable to exist alone. Our government, the Government of Law and Justice, the Government of the United Right, has been leaning on the fate of people with disabilities since the beginning of their operation. We also see the problems of caring for these people. The forms and amounts of support were mentioned here, and the Minister spoke a lot. One of the problems concerning disabled people is their professional activation, employment in the labour market. Hence my question: What is the situation of these people in the labour market in relation to the time before our governments, i.e. 2015? I'm talking about comparing employment rates, unemployment rates. What is the comparison of professional activity in 2015 and today? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u69	Katarzyna Czochara, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u70	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, I must say that I have listened to you with great interest. I'm very glad you're moved, as well as your colleagues, your conscience. Now you see, you see the great need to support people unable to exist on their own. You're talking about 400 days today from this podium. [[40.]] I've heard about 400 days. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Time flies.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Have people who are incapable of independent existence been in our country for 400 days? [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[You couldn't help yourself if you had nothing to say? Ma'am, get off the stand.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u71	Madam, your time is up. Thank you very much. Mrs Bernadette Krynicka, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u72	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This bill is another huge support for people with disabilities. No government has ever done as much for a group of people with disabilities as this government, the Government of Law and Justice, the United Right. Today, the lies from the speaker from the opposition Member have fallen. I have nothing to apologize for, Madame, I have not offended anyone. I'm the mother of an adult daughter with a disability who turns 25 in August. At the same time, I'm a pediatric nurse. I know perfectly well the situation of families and their mentality. As a mother with such experience, I have the right to a real and objective assessment. No one has the right to use children and adults to fight politically, as you do, dear opposition. [[Applause]] You can't do anything else. All you can do is use the weak to fight 'cause you're on the verge of... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u73	Mr Tomasz Latos, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u74	Dear Marshal, Minister! Minister! Congratulations on your initiative. I think that even in these questions, in this discussion, which is very calm, substantive, it can be seen that this government, the state, the Prime Minister is making a breakthrough. Of course, you can always say that you can do more. We all would like more, perhaps the Minister and the Minister too, but let us remember the many years of negligence, which is not easy to catch up very quickly. Things have changed a lot over the last four years. It seems to me, Minister, that it is worth recalling what was the situation we found in 2015, which we have today, in 2019. This perspective, such a reference point, will verify all these assessments, verify everything that has been said in this Chamber, which is often said in the media. I think... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u75	Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u76	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! A minimum wage increase project is being prepared. Prime Minister, will you increase the money allocated to the workshops of occupational therapy and environmental self-help homes? That's where people work for the lowest national. These are specialists, professionals, rehabilitators, therapists who take care of the disabled. This is a hard and responsible job. If there's no more money for this kind of support, it'll be a threat that they'll give up their jobs, and they'll be taken care of. In such cases, you have to approach this problem in human terms, with your heart and support, giving more money. I know this problem because I'm in contact with the Koszalin Occupational Therapy Workshop. To sum up my speech, I would like to say that this government is finally doing something for the disabled. It's going better. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u77	Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u78	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We would like to say, Prime Minister. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister isn't here. You've talked a lot about the subjective treatment of people with disabilities. We all remember your 40 days of shame when Jack Hartwich and his parents protested in the Seym when many others protested. What were you doing? You separated yourself with curtains, turned off the lights, restricted access to the toilet. What did you do when there was a NATO summit? You wanted to hide the protest of people with disabilities from the whole world, opening another entrance so that no one could see what was happening in the Polish Seym. My question, Minister. You say we have to argue that we should be open. Why can't he enter the Polish Sejm of Kuba Hartwich and many others at this moment? Why can't they be here on the platform to listen to this debate? Do you know why? Because you can't just say, "I'm sorry." Everything you do is only made public. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy Bożena Boris-Szopa: The speech was highly substantive.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u79	Mrs Joanna Borowiak, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u80	Dear Marshal, High Seym! Our solidarity must be real and reach specific people. It must be based on social dialogue, an agreement between the various parties to political and economic life. It's the words of sleep. President Lech Kaczyński. The Law and Justice Government executes this agreement and executes the will of the dead. The president. With this witnessing, we reach out to specific people, and our help is real. Financial support for people with disabilities and their carers is increasing by more than 1 000 compared to 2015 support. zł. And to the opposition: don't argue about people with disabilities, don't say that this help, real help, it's a prosthetic, humiliation or contempt, because that's what you just said. Show that you can unite around people with disabilities and for their own good. Vote for this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u81	Mrs Ewa Kozanecka, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u82	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The draft Act on Supplementary witnessing for persons unable to live on their own is another important element of the implementation of the announcements, a promise made by the President of the Council of Ministers to persons unable to exist on their own. It is the support of the most deprived, which is one of the priorities of the Government of Law and Justice. Minister! I have questions. Is it true that the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy is running a number of programmes that support people with disabilities and their families in a comprehensive, far-reaching way, not as it was under the rule of the Civic Platform and PSL? Is it true that the Law and Justice Government, following the programmes launched, has spent almost 4 billion more in support of people with disabilities and their carers in four years? And is it true that the Government of Law and Justice was the first to implement a number of programmes, including the Lifetime Programme, which contains comprehensive solutions, including financial support for families, [[♪ The bell ♪]] for pregnant women... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u83	Mrs Urszula Rusecka, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u84	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to appeal to the opposition: although this is the only time you do not try to capitalize politically on the victims and the weak. You're saying that this bill humiliates the disabled, that they feel deceived. I will ask the question: Were the governments of PO-PSL solidarity and fairness? Now you've got mouths full of clichés. I'm just going to quote one value, one data. Between 2010 and 2015 2,5 Millions of our citizens lived below the poverty line. During that time, the VAT mafia was crazy, fuel mafia... [[The threshold has widened.]] ...was given away for pennies of tenements. [[5.6%.]] Is this the subjective treatment of people with disabilities? More humility, ladies and gentlemen, more respect for the most deprived. [[The extent of poverty has increased.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u85	Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, near Now!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u86	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members of the Law and Justice! Put in your pocket all this talk about political exploitation. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: More culture.]] In 2014 there was a protest of people with disabilities here and it was you who came to Iwona Hartwich, to other people who protested here, you patted them on their backs and said that when you came to power, you would do it first. You didn't do it, only when they protested four years later, you despised them. To Mrs Bernadeta Krynicka: you have something to apologize for, and you must apologize for the contempt and ridicule that you have spoken to protesters. Let me add that you said that people with disabilities should use the range. You were talking about the mothers who protested here with the children, that they acted like they were in the circus. You should apologize for all this. And I ask the Minister very much that you lead people with disabilities to have the opportunity to consult this project. They're banned until next year... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u87	Mr Jacek Tomczak, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u88	Someone called this project a breakthrough project. I would like to say that this is not a groundbreaking project, because we saw how PiS treats people with disabilities during the protest. Today, this project, like many other wonderful projects, appears in a certain context, in an electoral context. And, of course, we know exactly what he's meant to do. People with disabilities know that, too. The only groundbreaking project in this case, which is submitted in the Polish Sejm and which is blocked by Law and Justice, is the project of PSL and the Polish Coalition, where there is no income threshold. As far as this income threshold is concerned, as we know, most of the people with disabilities will not be affected by this project. This income criterion is extremely unethical. How can you live for that kind of money? Of course, it limits the sense of this project. Let us hope that you will consider this and change the income criterion.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u89	Ms Agnieszka Chasing, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u90	Miss Marshal! Minister! This project will definitely have an impact on the labour market of people with disabilities, especially those with significant and moderate disabilities. As I mentioned earlier, there are 2,700 people with a significant degree of disability who lost their jobs last year. I have a question as to whether the government is taking up, countering the fact that work, which is not only a source of income for these people, but also, above all, value and very important rehabilitation, is still possible on the open labour market and for example. He will withdraw the 2014 decision of Minister Duda to freeze the refund on the open market for people with disabilities at the quota level and return to the percentage of the minimum wage, as the minimum wage is rising, while this refund is on the spot, at the quota level, which is why these people often lose their jobs. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Owa, Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u92	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Speaking of the success of her government in its activities for the benefit of people with disabilities, the Minister mentioned the "Accessibility+' programme. I would like to say that the Law and Justice of the programme has so much in common that it has changed the name of the programme to "Inclusion" to "Availability" + "Availability." And nothing else. That's all you've done. We are talking here about a programme which was prepared by the previous government, the government of Platform and PSL, in 2015 and which is financed - 20 billion PLN - from European funds, usually within regional operational programmes, X priority. It's about social inclusion. Only PLN 340 million was allocated from the state budget for this programme. That's 1.5%. programme values. So please don't tell me that you've created some kind of program that you're working for people with disabilities because you've done nothing. 23 billion PLN - this is the 2015 programme, you have only changed the name from Social Inclusion to Accessibility+. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u93	Member of Margaret German, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u94	High Izbo! Sport is one of the most important and important areas of social activity and plays a particular role for people with disabilities. Movement, sport is not only a very effective form of motor rehabilitation, but also an important element of social inclusion. Sports activity promotes the reduction of the effects of disability in the field not only of physical but also of mental and social aspects. We have over 200,000. children and adolescents with disabilities. You did nothing to create the right conditions for the expansion and development of the sport pyramid of disabled people for the youngest, at the lowest level. This is best seen in the amount and amount of prizes for coaches and players. 2015: 77 people, trainers - amount of 515 thousand; 2018: 120 people - only 692 thousand Almost twice as many people and no money. The same goes for the players. You didn't write in the rehabilitation bill, [[♪ The bell ♪]] So that the solidarity fund can benefit... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u95	Mrs Dorota Niedziela, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u96	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Minister was so eager to say a few years ago: What did you do for your Zygmus? Here I'll remind you that I have a disabled brother, very deeply mentally impaired. You screamed for me, and I'll tell you: I did a lot for my brother, and my party raised the amount of care service from PLN 420 to PLN 1447. I have a question: why do you say that this is a breakthrough? My brother won't get a dime. He's deeply retarded. He's got an 84-year-old mom looking after him. You're ruling him out of this program. This is an exclusion program. Do you know why? My father's worked hard for 30 years, he's dead, and my brother's retirement is after him, who's gonna cross that income threshold. Do you think that my 40-year-old brother - in two days he will turn 40 - who needs pampers, care, everything he needs a deeply handicapped child, an adult... He'll be excluded when it comes to 500 zlotys. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's an exclusion bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u97	Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u98	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! When the disabled protested in May, they presented their demands. You didn't listen to them. You have prepared a bill that is convenient for you, which covers as few people as possible and is unfair because it excludes certain groups of disabled people. I would like to point out that the disabled have applied for, fought for 500 PLN of the allowance and wanted it not to be limited by the income threshold and added to the social pension. The government didn't listen to the disabled then, and now it doesn't listen to them. I wanted to point out that when it comes to the assistant of a person who is incapable of living alone, the cost is about 1.5 thousand. PLN per month and rehabilitation - approx. 1 thousand. PLN per month. Of course there are extras, while these [[♪ The bell ♪]] Disabled, wanting not to... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u99	Thank you very much. The Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Mrs Bożena Borys-Raccoon, will now speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u100	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't really know where to start. Rather, I will try to avoid all aspects of the very personal and pointing out - by name and by name - various kinds of actions, because that is not the case. We're creating a system, trying to solve a very big problem. About support for people with disabilities and their families, about the whole support system built by these passing four years I have informed you just now. The most appalled me, or actually surprised me, maybe it's a more appropriate word, a discussion about a possible income threshold. As you know, the bill assumes that the benefits from this public path cannot be higher than 1.1 thousand. zł. That's what the lowest social pension is. I will remind you that the social pension thanks to our efforts is subject to valorization, so of course it will be valorized. The discussion of the introduction of this income threshold as a lively reminder of the discussion about the first five hundred. At that time we introduced it from the second child, with income thresholds, for both healthy and disabled children; with the disabled, this threshold was elevated. We justified this by the fact that, first of all, we are fulfilling certain obligations, secondly, this is the moment, what we can afford. Why? Because we want to be honest and credible. Now it's exactly the same situation. You know that we recently introduced 500+ to all children without income threshold and all children under 18 years of age, including disabled people, these 500 zlotys receive. Today's law is an element of a coherent system, which assumes a certain threshold, this threshold is the social pension, because we have calculated that we have 3 billion PLN, we have a group of 500,000. It's pretty much verified today. Please bear in mind that this group can grow because people can apply to the Social Insurance Institution or KRUS for recognition of their inability to take up their own existence, so this number can, of course, grow. Why is there a threshold? Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, we've decided that we've got 500,000 under investigation. people and to them this help must reach. Secondly, we have 3 billion. Thirdly, most importantly, we never made empty promises to Poles. We promise and realize. That's why these promises... [[3.5 million apartments. Tax-free amount.]] I am not talking to you, sir, and regarding the possible admission of your friends, please speak not to the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy, but to the Marshal of the Sejm and the Secretariat of the Sejm. That's it. [[Voice from the room: And in the trunk...]] As I told you, we could... You're saying our program is for the public and for the elections. No, because if he was under election, we'd promise pear on the willow. We don't want to do that. We want to do what we can. Go to a group that needs that support. Let me remind you, this is a group that won't write you a letter. This is a group that won't come to your office. This is a group that doesn't come here to protest, doesn't come to the Sejm. Perhaps their mothers or fathers will appear, but only when they find custody of these children. We don't do it in front of the audience. We don't do this for the election campaign. We just decided today, in July, that by the end of the year we are able to direct the amount set in the budget to the people who need this support most. Why? Like I said, we want to be credible, we want to be honest, and we don't want to be filmed about us, movies about empty promises. [[Applause]] Mr. PSL's question, from the coalition. I don't like to dress these topics politically, but it hurts because you asked a question straight to me. How do I imagine today will be possible for e.g. 1100 plus 500 plus that support. I can answer with a question. And how did you imagine for 12 years how these same independent people lived for 739 PLN gross? Today it is not much, but when we compare it with the amount of 739 PLN, it is 1100 plus 500, if you don't count, is 1,600 zlotys. I'm referring you, of course, to... I wanted to briefly discuss this programme today and discuss it, but if anyone wants to get to know it more, I encourage you to reach out to these brochures. To the substantive questions, very important, for which I thank you very much, will be answered by the government's representative for the issue of persons with disabilities. [[Applause]] Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Michalkiewicz will now speak at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u102	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I understand that the bill is not so controversial that many questions were not about the law, but at all about the situation of people with disabilities or the political situation. I will try to answer these questions, which were directly related to the law. There were a lot of questions about the consultation. Of course, we said that this year, in the fourth quarter, we wanted independent people to receive support through a supplemental benefit and hence this fast mode. On the other hand, consultations took place. In the framework of the regular consultation, we consulted the draft law with the National Consultative Council on People with Disabilities. I would like to remind you that, under our governments, we have enlarged the composition of this advice: among the 35 people who constitute the consultative council, 20 people represent the environment of people with disabilities, represents organisations - many organisations and many groups of people with disabilities have signed under their candidacy. The second consultation I conducted last week was with the community of completely dependent carers, completely independent. There is a group of carers, these people are invisible because they rarely leave their place of residence. We consulted these people because we believe that they are going to reach out to those who are in the most difficult situation. The state has often talked about the income criterion. There is no income criterion here, there is no income criterion in this law. The income criterion is in social assistance. It is very important that you remember, with regard to the income criterion, that a disabled person who has become disabled at a mature, adult age and has no right to a social pension while not earning a pension must meet the income criterion, which is PLN 528 per person in the family. If it exceeds PLN 528 per person in the family, the disabled person has no financial support. He has zero financial support from our society, our country. Second thing. This income criterion makes it possible to get a maximum of 645 PLN and a minimum of 30 PLN. This is calculated as the difference between the income and income of this person. So if someone has a income of PLN 400, how much will they get? 245 zlotys, and if it's 500 zlotys, it'll get 145 zlotys. Most often these people receive 400 PLN of permanent social assistance and do not have any benefits. If you're talking about a profit criterion, it is. It is for those disabled, unable to live on their own, who have suffered an accident of a mature age and have not earned a pension and are not entitled to a social pension. It's worth remembering. There are really a lot of these people and they are covered by this service. We didn't mean it the most. As far as the income criterion is concerned, the opposite is true. Please state, in this law, if you read, that the supplementary benefit is payable to those persons whose public benefits do not exceed the lowest pension for incapacity to work. It means that there's no income from work, no equity income, no loan or donation. These revenues, of course, do not count because they are not a public service. On the contrary, we want people with disabilities, if they can work, to work. And we're so happy for you. Recently I have seen the presentation of the Foundation Lie and I work, which takes care of those people who are unable to leave their bed, and gives them a chance to work. And that's why we've excluded all revenues except public benefits, and public benefits are primarily pensions, pensions and social benefits. And, of course, we add that up. On the other hand, when it comes to social pensions, which are received by so many independent people, we take into account 1100 PLN, we take into account that you can have a social pension and benefit from supplementary benefits, also in terms of family pensions, because this was often mentioned here. The State must bear in mind that the only provision that is combined is a social pension and a family pension. And you can have 200% social pensions, combining these two benefits. You also know that social pensioners were taken into account when it came to the thirteenth benefit, when they were, we granted 13 benefits to pensioners and pensioners. This was also a benefit for social pensioners. You must also remember that from this year on every child, every family with a disabled child receives the benefit of 500 PLN and those children with disabilities who are currently benefitting from this benefit is 500 thousand, 300 thousand. It means just one thing: every family with a disabled child receives support of 500 PLN as an educational witness. There was a lot, I mean. Not much... Mrs Pasławska asked about the programme "For Life." Of course he's being implemented. She did not notice that every year, when adopting the budget, money is also spent on the Life Programme. There's a few things I was quick to find. In 2017, on the basis of a comprehensive programme of support for families, a special edition of the programme was announced. The municipalities could apply for funding. 77 new places for disabled or vulnerable children have been created. 266 places of care have been adapted to the needs of children in this group. These sites were financed for the operation of 233 sites. Since 2018, a special edition of the "Milch+" programme for children with disabilities has been no longer organised. The funding of places for children with disabilities or requiring special care has become part of the main programme in the 2018 and 2019 editions. A group of beneficiaries has been extended. In both editions, not only local self-government units, but also natural persons, legal persons, organisational units without legal personality could receive funding. In 2018, more than 630 places for children with disabilities under 3 years of age were funded from the Life Programme. As part of the 2019 edition, they were co-financed by the programme "For Life' 734 places for children with disabilities or requiring special care. The great value of the changes introduced is to include comprehensive support for people with disabilities immediately after their birth. In 2017, more than 17 700 mothers were supported by pregnant women. Specialized neonatological aid was obtained by 1,700 children. The cost of all benefits was 169 400 thousand. zł. The availability of diagnostics and prenatal therapy has increased. In 2017, the prenatal research programme covered 107 thousand. mothers spent on 66,800,000. zł. Someone else was asking about environmental self-help homes. Please note that since 2017, access to environmental self-help homes has been facilitated by a larger group of people with mental disorders, in particular those with conjugated disabilities and the spectrum of autism. For this purpose, an additional amount of more than 41 million PLN was planned in 2019, so that the amount of grants per participant in the spectrum of autism or coupled disability in 2019 amounts to 2278 thousand. zł. Of course, in the report on the implementation of the budget, the State can check what amounts and for what activities were used in the Life Programme. In any case, the programme operates, the programme finances various types of activities and actually provides assistance to mothers and children who require it. About... That's what I said. I mean, in most of the questions there were no references to the bill. I'm sorry, using the fact that time is running out, I'm only gonna talk about the things that are worth saying. The state is misleading and frightening the disabled by not being able to work. They can work. I told you that there is no income criterion and that income, different income doesn't count, neither does child support. There one of your fellow Members asked about the situation of a family with alimony. Aliments have been turned off and do not count for any income. A person who collects social benefits, e.g. Social pension and alimony will be provided with a supplemental allowance. Of course, the Member who so documents the placing of unauthorized cars on disabled people's envelopes has our full support if she informs about any such case. I don't think that's acceptable. It is necessary to stigmatise the placing of vehicles by unauthorised persons on envelopes intended for disabled persons, and this is outside the discussion. It's out of the question. [[Applause]] As far as exclusion is concerned, as I said, the criterion excludes from social assistance many adults with disabilities who do not have their own income. In this case, we have not introduced any income criterion. I believe that if someone talks about a profit criterion, he hasn't read the bill. It is clearly written in the law - it is an article. 2 - that: The supplementary allowance shall be granted to entitled persons who do not have the right to cash benefits financed by public funds, or the sum of those benefits of a non-one-off nature, and with the amount paid by foreign pension institutions, excluding care benefits and other allowances and benefits paid together with those benefits on the basis of separate provisions prior to deduction, deductions and reductions, shall not exceed the amount of the lowest pension in the title of total incapacity to work. Only public benefits are taken into account here, nothing else, no income from work, no income from capital, no maintenance, just like the State I told you. Read the bill. And when it comes to informing you about this, be careful, because people with disabilities are following this discussion and misleading it is not right for Members. We are talking about those who are in the most difficult situation, unable to live independently, and often without any benefits or receive the lowest benefits. As regards Mrs Czernow's question, of course, the district teams have already received money from the special reserve. We have recently launched these funds and I hope that they have been made available to all district teams, while they are transferred from the reserve of the state budget through voivodships. I'm sure we've already signed the decisions, the voivods have asked the Minister of Finance to mobilise the funds from the reserve, and that's what's being done right now. I think I answered most of the questions. I would like to ask you very much to accept this bill. We're still gonna discuss this on the committee. If there are any questions, of course we are open, we will give you all the answers. Once again, I will remind you that this benefit is to go first to those who are in the most difficult situation, those who are unable to live on their own, who often do not have the opportunity to work, often have no income, because if the disability arose at a mature age and the pension has not been worked out, then in fact these people often do not have any financial means at their disposal. This is intended to cover increased expenses due to rehabilitation, care and treatment. It is really worth remembering that we have thought of those people who have not been remembered so far, and these people will not protest because they are unable to leave their place of residence, they are completely committed to functioning with the help of carers and assistants. There was a question about assistants. The program is being prepared, and there are even two programs. One is financed by European funds and the other is financed by the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities. I am sure that this year the programme will be launched and financed by a solidarity support fund. And the answer to the following question. Mr Piechota was worried about the Labour Fund. The only reason this loan is written in is so that it doesn't run out of benefits. And why could there be a problem in a month? Because, as you know, solidarity will only be paid in the middle of the next year - in the middle of the following year - and we have included the possibility of funding from the budget in the bill. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Those Members who would like to make such an amendment during the work on the budget, as I suspect, instead of worrying, should secure additional resources to support those disabled people who are in the most difficult situation that are unable to exist alone. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u103	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u104	In view of the fact that these 500 PLN for people with disabilities will include income, I would like to ask whether the classification of this income will not interfere with the possibility of obtaining the so-called. Rehabilitation allowance for disabled persons?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u105	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the Government's bill on supplementary witnessing to persons unable to self-exist, contained in print No 3603, to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I propose that the Sejm, based on the article. 39 (1) (a) 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, set a time limit for the submission of the report for consideration at the current sitting of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and some other laws (Print No 3602). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Tadeusz Kościński to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u106	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The main objective of the draft law is to introduce an obligation to use a split payment mechanism in sectors where many irregularities have been diagnosed in previous years. The project therefore aims to further seal the VAT system. The mandatory application of the split payment mechanism will apply to payments for goods or services which are currently covered by the reverse charge regime and tax liability. These include in particular fuel, steel and steel products, scrap and waste, precious metals, e.g. Gold and silver, and baseless, e.g. copper, stretch film, tablets, smartphones, consoles, construction services. In addition, this obligation will apply to payments for parts and accessories of motor vehicles, coal and coal products, electrical machinery and equipment and their parts and accessories. The detailed list of goods and services covered by the clearing obligation using this mechanism shall include an annex to the Act. The compulsory form of the split payment mechanism will be covered by invoices with a gross value exceeding 15 000. zł and the invoice shall document the transaction in respect of the goods or services listed in the attached annex. Invoices of less than 15 thousand. PLN will be cleared on a general basis. In order to protect against fraud, transactions below 15 000 zł, the object of which is all goods listed in the Annex to the Act, are subject to tax liability. This responsibility will be applied from the first zloty. This draft provides for a special indication of the invoices that will be subject to compulsory settlement in the split payment. These invoices will have to include an endorsement of the split payment mechanism. If the taxable person fails to comply with the obligation to include that note, then the sanction shall apply. This penalty will amount to 30% of the VAT amount of the transaction covered by the clearing obligation using the split payment mechanism. However, this penalty will not be applied if, despite the lack of information on the invoice, the purchaser makes the payment in the correct form, i.e. using the split payment mechanism. A sanction has also been imposed on the purchaser who, despite the obligation to apply the split payment, will otherwise regulate the invoices. This penalty will also amount to 30% of the amount of VAT charged on the transaction subject to the clearing obligation using a split payment. This penalty will not be applied if the seller clears the entire tax from such an invoice. The proposal also contains important facilitations for taxpayers in the application of the split payment mechanism, which will cover both the voluntary form that has been in operation since the previous year and the mandatory form introduced by this project. These facilitations are: extending the possibility of regulating from the VAT account also other fiscal charges, such as VAT on imports, income taxes, excise duties, customs duties and contributions to the Social Security Office, which will virtually eliminate the liquidity problem, as it will allow the use of VAT funds from the VAT account smoothly almost throughout the month; introducing the possibility of making aggregate transfers under the split payment mechanism, introducing the possibility of adjusting advances before receipt of invoices, allowing for reciprocal deductions and compensation. A penalty shall also be imposed on the purchaser in PIT and CIT taxes in the form of a loss of the right to credit expenditure to the cost of obtaining revenue in the event of payment other than the split payment mechanism. However, this penalty will be limited to cases where the invoice has been correctly marked and the buyer will nevertheless pay in a different form. The draft also provides for the addition of a new criminal act in the Criminal Code sanctioning the failure of taxpayers to pay by means of a split payment mechanism, imposing a fine of 720 daily rates and, in the case of a minor measure, a fine as for a tax offence. Another change in the project is the exemption from the tax charge of applications for the release of funds from the VAT account. It is assumed that the proposed law amending the Law on value added tax and certain other laws will enter into force on 1 September this year, except for the provisions on income taxes which will enter into force later on 1 January 2020. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thanks to the proposed regulation, we expect the following effects, firstly, to seal the system and, as a result, to reduce the VAT gap, secondly, to protect the state budget against the risk of VAT not being discharged by the supplier and, thirdly, to improve the business conditions by increasing the certainty of economic turnover, to reduce the unauthorised advantage that tax fraud operators have had so far over honest VAT taxpayers. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed regulations will have an impact on the increase in the revenue of the state budget and a minimal reduction in the revenue of local government units. The changes will have a positive financial impact on the revenue of the State budget from VAT. In the first year of the regulation, these effects will amount to about PLN 240 million and in the following years to PLN 960 million. The proposed changes will have a negative financial impact on the revenue of local government units due to the tax charge, which will amount to around 300,000. PLN per year. In view of the above, I kindly ask the High House to refer this proposal to further parliamentary work. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u107	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Noblet, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the Government's draft law amending the law on value added tax and certain other laws, print No 3602. The purpose of the amendment to the VAT Act is to replace the current special settlement of VAT, i.e. the reverse charge, with a compulsory split payment mechanism. The draft law also introduces changes to the rules on tax liability. The main amendments contained in this draft law concern the Act of 11 March 2004 on the tax on goods and services and the Act of 29 August 1997. The compulsory form of the split payment mechanism is to be applied to the supply of goods and services which are currently subject to the reverse charge procedure and the existing scope of tax liability. In addition, the draft law proposes to include a compulsory split payment mechanism for those transactions which are the subject of components and accessories for motor vehicles, coal and coal products, electrical machinery and equipment, their parts and accessories and other goods and services listed in Annex 15 thereto. The adoption of the amendments proposed in this project will result in the elimination of the principle of the reverse charge applied in Poland so far. The split payment mechanism will apply to goods and services documented by invoices whose gross value exceeds 15 000. PLN or equivalent. This amount has been correlated with the amount above which the payment by bank transfer is subject to payment. For transactions below 15 000 zł The purchaser may also use a split payment mechanism on a voluntary basis. A comprehensive analysis of the effectiveness of this solution was an inspiration to replace the reverse charge with a split payment mechanism. The split payment mechanism has been in operation in Poland since 2018. It is an innovative and unique solution on an international scale. Innovation is based on this mechanism with the banking system, which means that the funds collected in the VAT account remain the property of the taxable person and can benefit from these funds. Only the objectives for which these funds may be earmarked are limited. This mechanism prevents VAT fraud by so-called. disappearing taxpayers and at the same time provides protection for the buyer of goods or services, guaranteeing him the tax security of transactions. It provides legal protection against the possible use of it by an unfair counterparty. The basis for the proposed amendments is Decision 2019/310 of the Council of the European Union of 18 February this year authorising Poland to introduce a specific measure derogating from Article. 226 Directive 2006/112/EC on the common system of value added tax. With regard to tax liability, the tax services have identified the use of a safeguard mechanism, i.e. a guarantee deposit, which is why the bill proposes to terminate the guarantee deposit and to amend the rules on the application of tax liability. According to the applicants, the introduction of a split payment mechanism will have a positive impact on business conditions by increasing trading certainty [[♪ The bell ♪]] the economic and competitive position of honest entrepreneurs. Therefore, the Law and Justice Club will support this project in the further legislative procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u109	Thank you. Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u110	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present an opinion on the draft law amending the act on value added tax and certain other laws, print No 3602. The draft provides for the introduction of provisions in the Goods and Services Tax Act requiring the application of a split payment mechanism in certain sectors of the economy susceptible to fraud after exceeding the quota threshold in the gross invoice value. The mandatory split payment mechanism will generally cover the supply of goods and services currently covered by the reverse charge and joint and several liability listed in Annexes 11, 13 and 14 to the Act, and in addition the supply of parts and accessories for motor vehicles, coal and coal products, electrical machinery and equipment and their parts and accessories, as well as electrical equipment and their parts and accessories. Goods and services covered by the compulsory split payment mechanism are listed in the new Annex 15. In simplification, the aim of the project is primarily to replace the reverse charge mechanism in national transactions with a compulsory split payment mechanism. The project provides for the quota threshold for the compulsory application of the split payment mechanism. This obligation will be incurred in the case of payment for invoices with a gross value exceeding 15 000. zł. The draft also proposes amendments to the Tax Criminal Code to introduce tax liability for the taxpayer who made payments without the mandatory split payment mechanism. The taxable person who issued the invoice without stating the split payment will bear the penalty tax liability for issuing the invoice in a faulty manner. What comments can be made about this project? It contains a provision repealing the obligation to submit summary information on national trade - Article. Point 1 (5) of the project in question. Interestingly, the provision providing for the abolition of the obligation to submit summary information is already contained in the Act of 4 July 2019 amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and certain other laws which await the signature of the President. Then why put up with this regulation twice? There are doubts about how to set a threshold for the mandatory split payment mechanism. The proposed provisions shall include: When payment is made for purchased goods or services documented by an invoice in which the total amount of the claim is the amount referred to in Article. 19 point 2 of the Business Law Act, taxpayers are obliged to apply a split payment mechanism. Art. 19 point 2 of the Business Law provides that: the making or acceptance of payments relating to the economic activity carried out shall be effected through the trader's payment account whenever the one-off value of the transaction exceeds 15 000, regardless of the number of payments resulting from it. zł. So we have to ask whether this is more than 15,000. PLN or by an amount equal to 15 thousand. zł, because in practice this is not the case, and after all there are penalties, there are sanctions. That should be perfectly clear. Ladies and gentlemen, we will support this project. A number of things have been reported by the Chairman of the Nobles. He said, among other things, The role of a bank camera. I think the banker is the beneficiary of this bill, but you will tell Minister Cichoń about it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u111	Thank you, sir. Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u112	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 in relation to the government's draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and some other laws. Ladies and gentlemen! As regards the departure from the so-called. reverse load, I would like to say that if you actually, in short, have identified you - whether through the KAS or through MF - a problem and you know that this mechanism does not work, then you must leave it. That doesn't raise much doubt. With regard to the use of split payment or the extension of its use, this raises the There's some doubt about it from the point of view of business. I'm talking about honest businessmen, because those who act dishonestly, everything doesn't like it, and any action to seal the VAT gap will not be good for them. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I've read your print, it's print 3602, and I'd like to draw your attention to two passages that are inconsistent in my view, and maybe even lack of logic. Let me quote the statement of reasons, p. 23. You write this: Implementation of the mandatory split payment mechanism will have a positive impact on business conditions. You continue to write: However, it should be pointed out that the implementation of the proposed regulation will also mean costs for micro-entrepreneurs and for small and medium-sized enterprises. You continue to write: The introduction of a split payment mechanism in compulsory form in some companies may result in a surge in liquidity. The regulated companies have so far issued invoices on a net basis. As a result of the regulation, the amount to be paid will be increased by 23%. I am not able to understand how positive it can be for business to be affected by the fact that, on one day, entrepreneurs will have to find an additional 23% in their cashiers to make payments according to what is written in the bill in the explanatory memorandum. Just to make things interesting, Minister, I'll quote from the OSR. Here's what you're saying: So it's proposed... This concerns another issue - the liquidation of the guarantee deposit. There's an agreement about that, too. This raises no doubt. You write this: It is therefore proposed to remove the guarantee deposit and to amend the rules for applying tax liability. From the point of view of the tax authorities, the departure from the guarantee deposit institution, and therefore also from the obligation to keep a register of entities that have lodged such a deposit, is a positive solution. It was a burden for tax authorities to keep a register. Yeah, what do I say now? You don't know what to say. It turns out it's about introducing new burdens. I'm not even talking about burdens anymore, I'd say regulatory, because that's what entrepreneurs are used to. This is the introduction of new burdens to make it difficult for them to do business. Suddenly they have to find 23% on VAT today because they have so far accounted for on a net basis. You're pointing that out. You're saying this is a positive solution. On the other hand, the costs of keeping a register by institutions, a state institution... You think it's wrong, in the sense that taking these costs off the government is the right thing to do. Minister! I have seen a lot in this House, I am a Member of the first term, maybe an inexperienced one, but such inconsistencies... Excuse me, there's no logic here. Unless the Minister, I don't know, can justify it, he'll present it. It's just hard for me to find words to comment on. On the other hand, moving more to the general public on solutions aimed at reducing the VAT gap, yes, we support these solutions. On the other hand, it may be worth considering the details. So let's send this project back to the committee, work on it on the committee. We know there's already a committee meeting scheduled today. There will be a debate on the two projects combined. Perhaps it is worth considering which solutions are actually positive and which are only described as positive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u113	Thank you very much, sir. And I invite Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u114	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland I have the honour to present an opinion on the draft law on amending the act on tax on goods and services and on certain other laws, print No 3602. The draft law proposes replacing the current reverse charge mechanism with a mandatory, compulsory split payment mechanism. The split payment mechanism will cover all goods and services currently covered by the reverse charge mechanism, including inter alia. just scrap, steel, waste, electronics, fuel and will be extended to include transactions involving parts and accessories of motor vehicles, coal and coal products, electrical machinery and equipment and their parts and accessories. The split payment mechanism will cover goods or services documented by invoices whose gross value exceeds 15 000. PLN or equivalent. An amount of 15,000. The zloty is not random. It follows from the Law of Entrepreneurs - it is continuity - and the obligation to make payments above this amount without cash. These payments shall be made by bank transfer. This quota limit can be changed automatically, mutatis mutandis, in accordance with the Act of 6 March 2018. Below the amount of 15 thousand. zł The application of the split payment mechanism can be carried out on a voluntary basis, just as the split payment principle has been in operation so far, i.e. since 1 July 2018. The voluntary application of the split payment tool can also be applied in respect of other goods and services not necessarily covered by this project, this mandatory mechanism. The reverse VAT was not used for all goods and was extended by some elements only. The bill also provides for the liquidation of the guarantee deposit and amends the rules on the application of tax liability. When assessing the bill, it should be noted that the split payment mechanism will in our view certainly counter fraud and tax fraud more effectively than the reverse charge of VAT. The system will prevent fraud already at the stage of the transaction itself, i.e. in the initial stage, and will ensure better transparency of VAT settlements. It should also be stressed that this mechanism imposes huge obligations on the banking sector and, above all, will be a huge burden on businesses, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises, whose freezing of substantial financial resources will impede the liquidity of the accounts and reduce their activities. A dangerous element of the project is also the proposed date of entry into force of the essential regulations, as the Act provides that they will enter into force from 1 September 2019. The project thus breaks the good principle of tax regulation, which is used in good practice in the past from 1 January and 1 July. The assumed deadline, far too short, will give rise to some difficulties in adapting the company's online accounting system, which it includes. My club supports this bill. I think that there will be a substantive discussion on it and doubts will be clarified during the work of the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u115	Thank you, Member. Let's get to the questions. If any of you wanna sign up again, you're welcome. Question time - 1 minute. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u116	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the following question: Will the split payment mechanism be available for any transaction that the buyer considers to be risky? Since there is still a threat of joint and several liability, this seems necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Silchoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u118	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The title does not really reflect the change in content, because in fact the title of this law should be: the Act amending the Act on Taxation on Goods and Services and the support of the banking sector. We are the only country, and that is the innovation in which the funds are in the bank account and not in the account of the Minister of Finance. You freeze entrepreneurs' money in bank accounts and you say that you are aware that this threatens the financial liquidity of companies. You're saying they can get credit. They'll definitely do it. They'll borrow their frozen money. And we had record profits from the banks last year, and another record year is coming up, because the support of the PiS government, as far as the banking sector is concerned, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's over-normative. In no other country, the banking sector has the same support as in Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u119	Thank you very much. Mrs Margaret Navel.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u120	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In my view, money collected on a separate VAT account will not be freely available. There is also doubt about the pace and number of changes that require enormous involvement of specialists and changes in accounting systems. The limit of 15 thousand is also unfavorable. zł, because it will make it harder to run a business. Companies will have to examine each time whether the invoice is subject to a split payment mechanism or not. In addition, the bill requires changes in terms of relief of sanctions, because they are grossly excessive and will hit honest taxpayers rather than criminals. In practice, many businesses may be inadvertently mistaken when issuing invoices and should be able to correct without such far-reaching sanctions. That's why I wanted to ask if the government [[♪ The bell ♪]] provide for appropriate corrections in this respect. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u121	Thank you very much. Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u122	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Once again, you have introduced a solution that is quite difficult for entrepreneurs. So I would like to ask you about the analysis that you have carried out on the introduction of split payment, i.e. split payment, how this affects the business activity of my predecessors, the liquidity of economic operators, and the calculation of the credit capacity, when we are even talking about the need to borrow. And another question in connection with this analysis and the introduction of a limit of 15 thousand. zł on non-cash trading. How did the introduction of split payment, i.e. split payment, affect the reduction of tax offences in this regard? I'm interested in the number of cases under investigation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u123	Thank you. Mr Paweł Grabowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u124	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The question that comes from my mouth every once in a while on this platform, but I want to be that voice of conscience. In the Online System of Legal Acts, in which laws are published, we have of course a law on the tax on goods and services. It has the date of the last amendment, i.e. date 14 June 2019 - this is the latest version of the VAT Act. I do not know how many of these amendments were already this year, because I did not have time to check it out, but today we are dealing with another amendment, and in the meantime the VAT Act is also updated with the print project no.3255. Doesn't the Minister think there's just too much of this amendment? Isn't there a way to merge it? I understand that this applies to different spheres, because this is the matrix, and this is the departure from the reverse commitment, and this is the split payment extension. Many of these spheres have been discussed. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's regulated, but isn't it possible to merge it if it's a single bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u125	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u126	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Today we introduce an obligation for entrepreneurs to apply split payments for payments above 15 000. zł. On this occasion, I wanted to ask whether the Ministry made such calculations, how many banks who freeze these funds have earned on settlements on these accounts since the introduction of the principle of split payment into Polish law. The truth is that you write in the explanatory memorandum that this law will radically worsen the liquidity of small and medium-sized enterprises that will have to support their turnover loans in order to maintain even today's level of turnover, because some of the funds will be blocked and interest collected on blocked money accounts will be collected by banks without really sharing with entrepreneurs. Don't you think, Minister, that at this point in time, we should introduce an obligation to take measures? [[♪ The bell ♪]] From the interest rate of this frozen money, they went to entrepreneurs so that they could at least have money to pay interest on loans? Otherwise banks I mean, really. [[♪ The bell ♪]] double-earned: and interest on loans, and interest on frozen funds.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u127	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Andrzej Noblechta. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u128	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have listened to your statements and I must agree with Mr Grabowski, who said that there are indeed sequences in the justification of the project that may raise doubts. I was intrigued by the issue raised by Mr Grabowski, namely the correlation between this project that we are now discussing and the project that is waiting for the President to sign. The point is, are there really sequences? This is worth discussing when we discuss two projects together. I would also like to ask the Minister, in fact, why there are so many changes in VAT. This is the tax that gives the largest revenue to the state budget, over the past year - 175 billion. I understand that by monitoring certain adverse events, [[♪ The bell ♪]] As regards the payment of VAT, the Ministry is continuously diagnosing and correcting these rules in order to make them optimal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u129	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Tadeusz Kościński.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u130	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for these questions and comments. I will try to answer all in writing, but I could initially answer Mr Pyzik's question that there is already a way of settling split payment, i.e. split payment, for all transactions and it has been voluntary for more than a year. To Mrs Navels. There is a possibility to issue or correct the invoice and when it is settled in the split payment system later, this sanction will not apply. I will answer Mrs Skowronska's question in writing. Mr Grabowski. Yeah, we're gonna watch as much as we can to merge it and so on. You have to accept that not all the laws we could... We have a problem with how to implement, whether at the very beginning we start individually, or wait for a few years to implement it all on one... So it's still bad, and it's still not good. As for Mrs Hennig-Kloski's question, the same amount of money is in motion when it comes to payments. We do not increase and reduce how much money is in traffic between one bank and the other or one client and the other client, but we break the net and gross amount and the difference so that one amount goes into one account and the other amount goes into another account. So there's no more or less money for the banks. Banks share interest, they already do. Accounts are interest-bearing, free market works and customers they can open their accounts at banks where they get the best conditions. I will also answer Mr Nobleman's question now. Yes, there are as much amendments to the various laws that will be discussed today at the committee meeting, and we will now merge or cut out what is unnecessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u131	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u132	I would like to draw attention to the article. The 12th project, which sets the date of entry into force of the Act of 1 September 2019. I would like to ask whether the Ministry has tried to analyse the possibilities available to the banks so that they can properly and correctly prepare themselves in time for the implementation of the proposed solutions and to adapt their banking processes to the requirements of the proposed law. With particular regard to new payments.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u133	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and certain other laws contained in print 3602, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Marshal of the Sejm proposes that the Sejm, based on the article. 39 (1) (a) 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, set a time limit for the submission of the report for consideration at the current sitting of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on personal income tax (Print No 3580). I would like to ask the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping of Mr Grzegorz Witkowski to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u134	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It is my great honor to present to you a draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act. I immediately warn you that this is about income tax in reporting to seafarers, whose proposal concerns very small but very important substantively. The aim of this project is to implement the position of the European Commission presented in the course of the procedure on notification of the aid measure to ship owners adopted in the Maritime Labour Act of August 2015, which amended the relevant provisions of the 1991 Act on Individual Income Tax. This aid measure consisted in exempting from income tax the income of seafarers obtained from working on ships of Polish nationality together for a period exceeding 183 days in the tax year in international shipping on ships used for the carriage of cargo or passengers. Ladies and gentlemen! This aid measure has been challenged by the European Commission and has not entered into force in the absence of a positive decision. In the opinion of the European Commission, this provision should be extended to maritime vessels belonging to all Member States of the European Union and the European Economic Area in order to prevent discrimination against those States. This solution is also applied in other Member States. Consequently, our draft law implies a change of article. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 23c of the Personal Income Tax Act, which extends its scope to ships belonging to the European Union and the EEA. This will allow sailors working on ships not only under the Polish flag but also under the flags of the European Union and the EEA to obtain exemption from income tax. The proposed amendment will allow for a positive decision on the compatibility of State aid with the internal market by the European Commission, which has so far blocked us and thus this change, and the inclusion of Poland in the majority of Member States applying the Community guidelines on State aid to maritime transport, which recommend the application of aid measures in the field of labour costs and ship owners' taxes. This bill was prepared by the Tripartite Team acting at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation. Sailing and Sea Fishing and has full support from the public. Last week in our ministry there was a meeting of a trilateral team, all participants hoped that this amendment would be possible during this term of office. At the request of the social side, the project shall also indicate periods equivalent to periods at sea during which a seafarer may not be present on board by his own fault, for example. the duration of the trip to and from the ship, or the time spent on compulsory training required to maintain or improve professional qualifications required by international law. This solution was initially accepted by the European Commission as being in line with the guidelines. Ladies and gentlemen! The overarching objective of the proposed law is to encourage shipowners to flag their ships off the flag, which guarantees seafarers tax exemptions, i.e. the cheap flag of countries such as Bahamas, Liberia, Panama, under the Polish flag, and to improve the competitiveness of Polish seafarers on the international maritime labour market, which, as you know, is flooded by seafarers from third countries. This follows the Act of 24 August 2006 on tonnage tax as a step towards Poland's implementation of the European Commission's recommendations. This is the first of three, i.e. The second of the three steps that the Government of Law and Justice has set itself the goal of completing, closing the legislative, tax instruments so that it can be returned to the Polish flag with a clear conscience and full pockets. The first step was taken in 2006 during the first rule of law and justice. Sleep. President Lech Kaczyński then signed the Tonnage Tax Act. She was introducing this tax for the ship owners. The second step is today, which is the Income Tax Act. The third step, ladies and gentlemen, is a law on the social security of seafarers at the President's Office. And then this whole three-pack will work, we hope, according to our calculations, but also according to the assessments of employers, shipowners and the social, trade union side, in favour of this overriding purpose, the posting and return of ships under the Polish flag. Thank you very much and I would like to ask for this amendment to be adopted. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u135	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u136	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I have the honour to present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act, print No 3580. The project was prepared, as the Minister has already mentioned, by the Tripartite Team on Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping, acting at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation. Sailing and Sea Fishing, in which I had the honour of participating. The project also has full support of the social side, meets the expectations of both the employee and the team's employers, represented by the Polish Shipowners' Union, which have been reported for years. The aim of the project is to amend the Act of 26 July 1991 on income tax on natural persons consisting in exempting from income tax the income of seafarers obtained from working on ships in international shipping, and consequently to encourage shipowners to fly their ships off the flag, which guarantee tax exemptions for seafarers under the Polish flag, as well as improving the competitiveness of Polish seafarers on the international maritime labour market. This amendment is fully in line with European law, with the aim of implementing the 2004 Community Guidelines on State Aid to Maritime Transport in Poland, in which the European Commission recommends the application of aid measures in the field of labour costs and taxes for ship owners in international shipping. The proposed law will consequently allow Poland to join the majority of the Member States of the European Union applying the guidelines. The draft shall also indicate periods equivalent to periods at sea during which a seafarer may not be present on board by his own fault, e.g. the duration of the trip to and from the ship, or the time spent on compulsory training required to maintain or improve professional qualifications and, as mentioned, required by international law. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, as well as as as chair of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, I ask the High House to adopt or adopt a draft by the High House, but I would also like to ask that the above-mentioned text be addressed. a project to the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, so that we can also process it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u137	Thank you. Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u138	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a position on the Act amending the Personal Income Tax Act. The essence of this change is that we add tax exemption for seafarers working on Polish ships flying the Polish flag to the regulations of the Act. We We support this project. I've only got two points of attention. This solution was adopted by the PO-PSL government in 2015. This was in August, 5 August 2015, and it is necessarily normal because it is in substance consistent with ours, which we support. On the other hand, the second point is of this kind - note - that almost 4 years have elapsed since 5 August 2015 and it is difficult to be satisfied that these works have lasted so long. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: If you accepted, it would come into force...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u139	Thank you. Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz Poselski Club15. [[Four years lying down.]] [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: You should have accepted.]] Ladies, I propose that ladies go cockroaches and scream there, while here please remain calm and allow Mr Grabowski to present the position of the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u140	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 in relation to the draft law amending the Act on personal income tax, which, in its essence, contains such a standard that seafarers working on ships of Polish nationality - assuming that they will work on them more than 183 days per year - will be exempt from personal income tax. This solution is very good, because it goes against certain standards that operate on this market, if you can say so. If there are shipowners outside the European Union who apply such regulations, i.e. countries outside the European Union where shipowners are established or registered, such arrangements must be competitive. That's one thing. Secondly, these provisions are the implementation of the European Commission's recommendations, so there is no doubt in this regard either. Here I draw attention to the weight, the essence of the so-called. the notification procedure, because it was during this procedure that the European Commission concluded that something was worth changing and improving in Polish legislation. I would like to point out another point: the increase in the competitiveness of Polish flag, Polish industry or this maritime transport sphere in fact is of the utmost importance, because the main incentive is the issue of tax exemption or how much net, on the hand, can earn a sailor. Therefore, if sailors have the choice of both Polish ships and foreign ships, hopefully they will choose Polish ships, so that Polish companies providing maritime transport services can develop, create new jobs, and thus - there will be more tax revenues to the Polish budget. Thus, with these minor solutions, it would seem that, even if due to the volume of the persons concerned or their beneficiaries, it may be possible that, although these persons will be exempt from the obligation to pay income tax, the potential loss of the state budget will be much less than the profit in the form of other taxes which these shipowners or shipping companies will pay. So, Minister, this is a very good solution, we are in favour of accepting it. On the other hand, as regards the request by the Commissioner to refer him to the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, we do not see any contraindications here, although we will probably have to vote on this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u141	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u142	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The Polish People's Party Club - the Polish Coalition is in favour of continuing the legislative process on this government submission concerning the amendment of the Income Tax Act. There is only such reflection, doubt - but I am convinced that the Minister, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and we, as the Sejm, are also in control of these amendments, what will be in which - as for all these actions that workers will have to implement in the field. Because the multitude of legal acts has never been conducive to a clear interpretation, a quick solution to problems, but I remain convinced that through the use of modern information systems, knowledge, training will certainly be appropriate in individual cases, without undue delay and damage to the interested. On the other hand, we consider it right to include a group of seafarers working on ships under the flag of the European Union in a group exempt from this tax. I think it will be possible to carry out during a certain period of time a sequence, which is contained in the final phrases of justification, this encouragement of seafarers to take up work on units under the Polish flag, that shippers will be willing to register also under the Polish flag, because the Minister himself will admit that if we review the tonnage of the flag, our country is a little bit in the latter part of the Peleton, i.e. I'll never mention countries like Switzerland or Mongolia again. I hope that these actions will also stimulate these projects, that these effects will be better, because we also have to take into account that we have the right ports where the weight overloaded is growing every year. Here we have good indicators. So that I wish the Minister that all this will come true, especially in these tax offices, so that they will not be lost. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u143	Thank you, sir. Let's get to the questions. If anybody else wants to sign up, you're welcome. Question time - 1 minute. Mr Michael Szczerba. There isn't. Mr Piotr Pyzik. Are you an MP? Absent. Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u144	183 working days in a tax year on ships flying the Polish flag. Therefore, I would like to ask: Why has it taken so long? Since 2005, as my colleague spoke on behalf of the club, a project has been being prepared. How much has the tonnage of ships under the Polish flag increased over the last four years? How many sailors work on Polish ships today, not under cheap flags? This is important. What was done over the four years when we knew that such a solution could be notified, especially beneficial? [[Voice from the room: 8 years.]] I'd like you to see that my colleague is disturbing me, and he's drawn attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u145	If you wouldn't mind a friend...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u146	Thank you very much. [[Game in the O.R.]] The other friend is in the way.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u147	Continue, Madam, because you are still here. [[♪ The bell ♪]] 0 seconds.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u148	I would ask you to answer these questions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u149	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Grabowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u150	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister. You can't know everything. I don't know anything about the flag of a seaship. I have a question: Is this possible, I think, for ships outside the European Union there are simply different standards, lower safety standards? So, first of all, will this solution also have a positive impact on the safety of seafarers? Secondly, what effect does the State foresee as regards the abolition of this personal income tax on seafarers with certain restrictions on the increase in the employment of seafarers on Polish ships? How will this affect the maritime transport industry, the Polish maritime transport industry? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u151	Thank you, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I kindly ask you to respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping of Mr Grzegorz Witkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u152	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I will refer to the Member's question. He is not here, but this question corresponds to the question of the Member. In August 2015, a law was adopted by the previous Civic Platform and PSL government. We have been having a dialogue with the European Commission on notification for 4 years all the time, because we had to notify this law. And that's where the guidelines came from, which we're now implementing into this bill. The argument that we've been lying there for four years isn't quite true. As far as the employment of seafarers under the Polish flag is concerned, there are currently several hundred of them, but not more than half a thousand. First of all, they are ship workers, seafarers of the coastal fleet, fishing fleets. The Polish flag is actually present only in specialized or commercial units which swim. If we make this three-pack to the end, there will be a chance that merchant fleet sailors, merchant navy will first of all have much easier, much stronger economic stimulus, because only such incentives can decide that they will return, that they will work on ships under the Polish flag. For this to be under the Polish flag, the ship owner must register. The sailor may be an additional argument to the ship owner that these on-board costs will be lower. For now, these on-board costs are higher. Mr Kotowski. Thank you so much for supporting the bill and for your warm words. A lot of amendments. I wouldn't worry, because it's really the first amendment in this area. I know that tax laws are often amended, but as far as this scope is concerned, this is the first such important law, which directly refers to the pockets of seafarers, since 2015. Mr Grabowski asked for safety. Definitely under the Polish flag, these safety standards are more favourable for seafarers. They should take this argument into account when possible hiring on our ships, on ships under our flag. [[And how many ships do we have under the Polish flag?]] A few dozen. [[In writing, please.]] Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u153	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u154	The project assumes that the exemption is intended to cover ships used for transporting cargo or passengers in international shipping rather than in international transport. Therefore, I would like to ask: Is working on individuals such as: platforms, cable or specialised vessels, e.g. research vessels, will be able to provide the basis for Polish seafarers to benefit from the PIT exemption based on the project? Source of the question: https://www.economics.maritime. en/Administration,Marine Law/Taxes:-if-f act-release-marine-z-pit-project-rare-from-day-15-May-2019-year. html
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u155	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This project is described by the government as one of the most important maritime projects recently adopted. I would like to draw attention to some of the inconsistencies that have been included in this project. The first issue concerns the definition of international shipping. The definition contained in the project lacks one rather common situation, i.e. the one where the ship swims between the platform and one port. The provision refers to ports, i.e. plural. In order to avoid interpretational doubts, the above should be clarified. the definition to the extent indicated. Will the Ministry accept this request? The second point concerns the scope of the PIT exemption in question. According to the project, the exemption is intended to apply to ships used for the carriage of cargo or passengers in international shipping rather than in international transport, which makes it possible to work on such vessels as, among other things,: platforms, seismic ships, cable vessels, specialized ships, e.g. research, will not entitle Polish seafarers to benefit from the PIT exemption based on the above mentioned. rules. Is it possible at this stage to amend these provisions in a way that will give them a reasonable hint and allow them to apply to all the above mentioned provisions. Interested groups?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u156	Minister! Is the introduction of a tax exemption in the case of work carried out jointly for a period exceeding 183 days per tax year sufficient to ensure our system of competitiveness vis-à-vis non-EU systems?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u157	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the Act on personal income tax, contained in print No 3580, to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. At the same time, on the basis of Article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Marshals of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the committee's report by 29 August 2019. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 min. 35 hrs. 13 min 40]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: The Extraordinary Commission report: - on a government bill amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act and certain other laws, - on senate draft laws amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act (prints No. 3251, 3134, 3193 and 3562). I ask Mr Mark Ast to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u158	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Extraordinary Commission on Changes in Codifications, I have the honour to present a report on the government draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act and some other laws, print No 3251, on the Senate draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, print No 3134, and on the Senate bill amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, print No 3193. The report is contained in print No 3562. The Extraordinary Commission on Changes in Codifications considered these projects at its meeting on 15 March 2019 and referred them to the Permanent Sub-Committee for the revision of criminal law. The subcommittee has been very thorough in considering the projects at three meetings, a broad discussion has been held. Many legislative, editorial, as well as substantive amendments were introduced during the subcommittee's deliberations, followed by the Extraordinary Commission on 2 July 2019 having examined the subcommittee's report and adopted a draft law which today came under the High House's agenda. I think that, after the amendments have been tabled, mainly legislative, but also substantive, the project pursues the main objectives. First of all, it was a general improvement of criminal proceedings, and also a reduction in procedural obstruction, but this involves improving criminal proceedings, introducing a statement of reasons, moving away from unnecessary procedural formalism. These are a number of changes which should have a very positive impact on improving the work of courts in criminal proceedings to the satisfaction of the parties to the proceedings. Above all, there is a strengthening of the victims in the dispute. In a word: the project goes in the right direction. On behalf of the committee, I recommend the adoption of the bill, the adoption of this law by the Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u159	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u160	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, a position on the report of the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications of the Government draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act and certain other laws, as well as on the Senate draft laws amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act. It was a good thing that the Extraordinary Commission at its meeting on 15 March 2019 considered that these three projects should be examined together, as they all serve the same purpose, i.e. improving the conduct and improvement of the rules, primarily the criminal procedure. As I said, presenting this March the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the government project, of course we agree with the objective which, as we read in the explanatory memorandum, was guiding the Council of Ministers in preparing this project. This is to improve criminal proceedings, to eliminate the perceived shortcomings and legislative errors that occur in the procedural law and to adapt procedural regulations to the challenges arising from technical progress. In particular, it is about abandoning unnecessary procedural formalism, making it easier for participants in proceedings related to participation in it, preventing the obstruction of the parties and protecting the social interest more widely in criminal proceedings. In Poland, ladies and gentlemen, there is a cross-party agreement that judicial proceedings should be speeded up. This also applies, to a particular extent, to criminal proceedings. Such simplification has long been advocated by Law and Justice. Similarly, we welcome the senate initiatives, one of which is the implementation of the request from the citizens' petition, and the other is the proposal to execute the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. Thanks to this, first of all, we put in the Code of Criminal Procedure a solution, according to which, if the end of the period for the execution of the action falls on a legal day declared free of work or on Saturday, the action may be carried out on the next day, which is not a day free of work or a Saturday. Its adoption will lead to uniform arrangements for the calculation of time limits for the execution of procedural acts in criminal, civil, administrative and tax proceedings. Second, there is a redrafting of § 56 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which will allow defendants who have been deprived of the status of party in proceedings to challenge the decision of the court. On this occasion it is appropriate to thank the Senate and the senators for their commitment, their contribution to improving Polish law, listening to the voices of Polish citizens petitioning the Senate and their commitment to quickly execute the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal. In conclusion, the public is looking forward to speeding up the work of the courts, and the project we are working on meets these expectations. By acting on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I declare that the club supports further work on the bill. At the same time, we believe that the rules still need to be refined in a number of places, which is why I am proposing two amendments on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. One of these aims is to enable the Supreme Court to refer the case to the Supreme Court for the sake of the good of the judiciary not only at the initiative of the court but also at the request of the prosecutor. The second amendment aims at adapting and harmonising the nomenclature for the Chief Prosecutor's Office as a procedural body in criminal proceedings. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u161	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Arkadiusz Myrcha from the Civic Platform - the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u162	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When I present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - the Civic Coalition on the report on the combined draft law on amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure, I would like to start by giving a critical voice to the fact that these projects are being dealt with jointly. The government project is judged very critically, and it is proceded in conjunction with senate projects which have been accepted by the whole House, which will, of course, be reflected in the evaluation of senate projects, including in the vote, to the detriment of them. I'm going back to the government project, as I said, very controversial and collecting numerous criticisms. This cannot be surprising because the Ministry of Justice, with even good intentions, has introduced a number of very dangerous solutions to this project, including the amendments that have just been tabled by the Member. As the presentation is limited to 5 minutes, I will only present these most vivid negative examples. Art. 315a of the Code of Criminal Procedure provides for the possibility of withdrawing from the hearing of the victim as a witness. The provision proposed by the Ministry is incompatible with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 laying down minimum standards for the rights, support and protection of victims of crime. This proposal merely illustrates the objective of shortening the preparatory procedure. It's going to happen, of course. at the expense of its accuracy in terms of the facts. This will mean shifting the burden of evidence to the court, which in turn will extend the process at the stage of judicial proceedings. A legitimate criticism is also generated by the proposal to amend the article. 55 § 1 k.p.k. and Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 330 § 2. They regulate the so-called issue. a subsidiary indictment, i.e. initiation of proceedings in the event of double refusal by the prosecutor to report a suspected crime. The Ministry proposes to return to a solution that has already been in operation and which has simply not worked out, therefore it has been changed. The Ministry proposes re-introduction of the role of prosecutor over prosecutor refusing to initiate. The current review is purely judicial, which in fact increases the independence of prosecutors in decision-making. By introducing the D.A., there's room for abuse and pressure. Seeing the prosecution's work over the last three years, how many political decisions there are, it's easy to imagine a situation in which even under obvious circumstances there might be proceedings against someone; not such things have happened in the prosecution's office over the last three years. However, the most controversial issue seems to be the draft amendment of the article. 117 Code of Criminal Procedure and Art. 378a. They are clearly incompatible with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 March 2016 on the strengthening of certain aspects of the presumption of innocence and the right to be present at trial in criminal proceedings. Art. 117 § 3a c.p.k. the proposed wording provides that the absence of a party who has been duly informed of the procedural action, regardless of its cause, shall not preclude the conduct of that action if its defender or representative has presented himself. This does not, of course, apply to the action in which the party's participation is mandatory. The proposed amendment is in the first instance contrary to Article. Article 42 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 constitutions. Nor does it meet the requirements of the fundamental principle of a fair process set out in the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The removal of the right to participate in the trial of the suspect, or later of the accused, who will justify his absence, in the sole fulfilment of the conditions of the defence's presence, constitutes a serious breach of the right of defence. In this case, the Constitutional Tribunal also ruled by a judgment of 28 April 2009, which the Ministry of Justice, contrary to what it claims in the explanatory memorandum of the bill, does not respect either. The proposed amendment is also flawed in practical terms, because it will not speed up proceedings due to the fact that such defendant's requests will be addressed, fully justified requests for re-trials, because they have been taken in his absence, which will naturally extend rather than shorten judicial proceedings. The proposal to introduce an article is even further to restrict the right of defence and undermine the idea of a fair trial. 378a Code of Criminal Procedure. This provision allows for the possibility of carrying out evidence proceedings at a hearing at which the defendant or defender has not been informed of its time limit, even if that person duly justifies his failure to appear. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The introduction of this provision will clearly expose Poland to cases in the European Court of Human Rights, cases which will be lost in advance. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! These were only isolated examples confirming the scale of the flaws of the project, which is why the Civic Platform Club - the Civic Coalition cannot support it as it stands. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u163	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Jachnik, Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u164	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wonder whether this Code of Criminal Procedure is a code of production of judgments, whether it is a process that seeks to clarify the material truth or a protest that is to find and convict the victim as soon as possible. I am astonished to hear how Members of the Lawyers present their position as a success as an acceleration of the criminal process. Well, here's what I'm gonna say. We've applied for a ten-minute limit, so I'm gonna have to cut myself short of necessity, but I'm gonna say yes. Withdrawal of the prosecution request until the court wire is closed. Does this extend the process or shorten the process, Minister? Evidence-based precision in criminal proceedings is unacceptable as a cost of speeding up proceedings. Well, in Poland since 1990 - hence there is even an emergency complaint - we have many unfair judgments. There's been a third case recently in which a guy's been in jail for 11 years. And unfortunately, it's the result of a criminal trial like a good procedure, and now we want to change it to a worse one. These are unacceptable matters. The question of a subsidised indictment. Many times, Minister, in this Chamber, I have spoken of this. It's about whether or not it's gonna be the court controlling whether it's gonna be the D.A.'s office controlling it. In 2007, I remind you, Prime Minister Gosievski and Minister Ziobra were updating this code. In the opinion that this would shorten the procedure, it was changed so that the complaint did not go to court. Now we are 2019 and it turns out to shorten its return to the old system. It's not gonna cut it short. Well, I am a living example of the fact that the prosecution, using the arrangement, the possibility of refusal or redemption, can send from one prosecutor's office to another file for eight years. And I'll tell you, Minister, yes. I've said that before, and I'm surprised you didn't take advantage of it. In quarterbook No.4 of the National Judicial Council, an article is published by me and by Mr Sanocki, the Reform of Justice with the eyes of NGOs. Too bad you didn't take advantage of it. It's a shame, because as long as there's a Code of Criminal Procedure, there's got to be two rejections or two redemptions. consecutively following each other, for so long or the prosecution's office, whether the court will play the files. And that's the problem. We have promoted this - I believe it will shorten the procedure, and I urge you - that after the first termination or refusal of initiation, the case should be closed if the citizen wishes to file a subsidiary indictment, because the rest is the production of the same documents, and he keeps the file as long as he wants. Supplementation of the justification of the judgment, Minister. Well, for God's sake, there is a judgment at first instance, the other party writes an appeal, and it turns out that the court or the prosecution will complement the justification of the judgment and take it, and already the appeal is written. Where are we? Conducting the hearing in the absence of the accused in the absence of the defendant - I stress: in the absence of a notification of service. In other words, the thing is, I don't get any notice that the case is going on, my lawyer doesn't get a notice. And the D.A.'s office is trained. I know, because they practiced it on me, they sent me a notice the day it was, with such a date of the postmark, from Częstochowa to Bielsk, so I had to get it a week later and could not participate in the activities. So it's going to look the same way. This will be the way to conduct criminal proceedings. I would have understood that if the defendant hadn't volunteered himself, he'd have been notified, and he wouldn't have volunteered. If there were to be a change in the rules of notification, of direct delivery, I would understand. Then if he didn't turn himself in, that would be his case. In this direction, I would go, but not in this direction, to conduct criminal proceedings without it, e.g. interviewing a witness, e.g. The defendant or his attorney wants to ask questions. Well, Minister, what an acceleration. The trial we're talking about? Under the heading of the implementation of the European Parliament's directive on legal aid, you are simply introducing provisions that compromise the criminal process in Poland at all. I don't know if you guys understand. Well, I recommend it to you really - Minister, I leave it to you, I give you, read it to you - because these are really the things people wrote based on a survey of 1,500 people. Anyway, at the first meeting of the victims in the column room, you were, if I remember correctly. Then use what has been done, because it can speed up the process. This is fiction. This is taking the justice system. [[♪ The bell ♪]] By the D.A.'s office. We will not support this project under any circumstances.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u165	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u166	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland to present our position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act and some other laws and Senate drafts amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, contained in prints No. 3251, 3134, 3193 and 3562. In fact, the previous speakers indicated all the main reservations, which also the club of the Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland shares. Although the matter, Minister, is quite far from medical, but there is such a quote here, saying that the diagnosis is correct, but the treatment is wrong. Undoubtedly what is right - here we will all agree - the issue of speeding up and improving proceedings in courts is a fundamental problem - it is good that after 4 years the state finally pays attention - only that these improvements can be introduced in different ways. The solutions contained in the projects we are looking at, unfortunately, must, as we have just said, be considered rather questionable and controversial in most cases. I will also agree here with the argument which came just a moment ago that unnecessarily all these projects were grouped together and are subject to a process at the same time. That's still confusing the matter. Therefore, we do not see as a club the possibility of supporting these projects in this form. We hope that while you are still working on them, you will show some reflection as projectors and that these most controversial provisions will change. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u167	Thank you very much. Let's move on to asking questions. If any of you want to sign up, you're welcome. Question time - one and a half minutes. Mr Szczerba has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u168	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! We are discussing the powers of prosecutors, but it is also an opportunity to ask questions to the Deputy Minister of Justice concerning the independence of prosecutors and the treatment of prosecutors by the national prosecutor Bogdan Święczkowski. The High Chamber is aware of the case of Mr Mariusz Krasonia of the Regional Prosecutor's Office in Krakow, who was seconded from 8 July to the District Public Prosecutor's Office for Wroclaw Krzyki-West. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Prosecutor Krasoń was an active prosecutor at the Regional Prosecutor's Office Assembly in Krakow. It signalled real needs related to the remuneration of prosecutors, lack of adequate action to improve staffing, improve the different limitations and independence of prosecutors. What was the consequence of this type of activity for its environment? First of all, it's a posting. Is it normal, Minister, that from day to day the prosecutor is transferred almost 300 km from his place of residence to an individual situated two levels below in the hierarchical structure of the prosecution? Isn't that harassment, or isn't it sanctioning, also considering the personal situation of D.A. Krasonia? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Shouldn't this kind of situation be branded by all of us? Thank you very much. [[Question.]] [[Voice from the room: What is the question?]] [[A voice from the hall: Are you not ashamed?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u169	Thank you. Mrs Margaret Navel.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u170	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill we're investigating is a misunderstanding. This project brings chaos and confusion to criminal courts. It cannot be that the rights of suspects are questioned, and unfortunately it is in accordance with this bill. In addition, dangerous powers are granted to prosecutors. The flaws of this project are huge and it is impossible to mention everything, to present it in 1 minute time, so I ask for a moment of reflection to those who are working on this project, so that they will simply come to their senses about what they are proceeding on, because it is normally a shame. Mr Marshal, High Izbo, I am very ashamed of the applicants that this is the law in this House. How embarrassing are you, Minister? This is a disgrace. Don't you see that? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u171	Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u172	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Now that we're talking about amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Penal Code, I'm asking you what happened to the judges of peace, what happened to the institution of the judges of peace. After all, the introduction of such an institution - which is probably not even controversial, is universal agreement on this - would improve the functioning of justice and justice of peace in the smallest, smallest cases so that judges, those who are after the application, after exams, are relieved of the burden so that they can judge more efficiently and in greater comfort in matters of higher importance, of greater rank. That's why I'm asking you this question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u173	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Jachnik.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u174	Minister, I have the following question. I have four external opinions in front of me, professors, on the matter of K.P.K. I'd like to know how much these opinions are paid for. That's the first question. Second question: Are you aware that this will be another project that will be challenged either to the Constitutional Court or to the European Court, and will be blocked again? And the third question is, could you not ask Barbara Chrobak for some mediation with the D.A.'s office to finally come up with a good project? Because as vice-president of the prosecutors' union bureau, she should be able to help with that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u175	Thank you very much. Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u176	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, a consistent, identical criticism of the government draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act - such a bubble the Sejm has not seen in a long time, although you present such projects coming out of your department. Actions in the absence of the defendant, the suspect or his attorney, a change of jurisdiction at the request of the prosecutor - that has not yet been done. Really, you're trying to make your own country in the country. Prescription and deadlines for submission of evidence. Definitely both Mr Myrcha and Mr Jachnik pointed to formal errors in this government project. In a situation where we do not have such comments on the Senate project, you are putting your project, which you are trying so quickly to pass in the Sejm, to sues against Poland to tribunals, but also to the European Court of Human Rights, because you are violating all those qualities which, under the Code of Criminal Procedure, were attributed to both the accused and the suspected. Isn't it really embarrassing to all of you for such a project, Minister? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u177	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at Sebastian Kaleta's Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u178	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are leaning down on a very important project, which millions of Poles are waiting for. Poles are waiting for Polish courts to be able to deal effectively with matters which are addressed to them, but Polish citizens do not want the obstruction to win against justice in Polish courts. In fact, this project aims to ensure that the courts deal with what they are called to do: to establish facts and to bring about justice. Okay. Two months ago, we all watched with surprise, and even with astonishment, how the Amber Gold judgment began to be read. It's been two months, and the court is in the process of reading the 37th volume of 60 volumes that it needs to read, because that's the procedure we have now under the Code of Criminal Procedure. So, instead of working on more cases, the judge reads the sentence. He'll probably read it by September, that's what you get when you look at the state - he reads the 37th volume of 60. Mr Myrcha raised the question that the rights of the victims would allegedly be violated, which prosecutors would not have to interrogate in any case in the preparatory proceedings. The victim has all the procedural rights preserved, only that in cases such as Amber Gold prosecutor, seeing a huge economic scandal - there are 19 thousand victims. people - he will not have to find each victim individually in order to be able to bring to justice the creators of such criminal undertakings. Everyone will be able to participate in the proceedings, but the prosecutor will not have to interrogate each and every one of them, so that he will be able to refer the indictment to the court more quickly. The same applies to court proceedings themselves. In the case of Amber Gold, the court had to call each one one at a time, interrogate each one at a time. If it weren't for that, we'd probably have heard the verdict sooner. If not for the fact that these provisions are not yet being applied, the judgment would probably not have been read for several months, but the court would have briefly put forward the reasons for its decision in a few hours, which it would have done if those provisions had been adopted. You're talking about the alleged violation of suspects' rights. I listened very carefully because many of you often focus on the suspects and rarely on the victims. [[What are you saying?]] [[Voice from the room: I was just talking about the victims.]] We lean over the victims, the point is to get them to hear the verdict faster, and you want them to wait years. [[Not that it's fair.]] And that's the difference between us. It's the victims who wait for the sentences. No suspect's procedural rights are violated. Today, the rules in force are very often used for procedural obstruction. It may be that a witness comes from abroad, e.g. in the case of succession related to the reprivatization of Warsaw, the person who left Poland in the 1950s or after the war, comes to testify against a possible suspect in such a case, while the accused is not present, the attorney is not present, so no action can be carried out. This provision serves precisely to prevent such obstructions in Polish courts from occurring. What is important is that this provision contains a series of guarantees for suspects, defendants. Another topic that has been raised is the question of shame for the way in which the law is made in this case. The project was submitted in January, it has been discussed for a very long time, so each interested party had the opportunity to express their views, to submit a counter-proposal. It seems to me that the legislative process in this case cannot be called against the possibility of directing appropriate comments to the project and that the project was also subject to some adjustments. Mr Jachnik pointed out that, when it comes to withdrawing the application for prosecution at a certain stage, it may be wrong to extend this deadline. The motion to withdraw ends the case, so the case is closed. I don't see the problem with a victim's right to consistently deserve it. [[This is a concern for the victims.]] Everyone has the right to decide their own matters, and this change is incredibly conducive to the victim being able to end the case if he expects it. Some questions were not directly related to the submission, but I will try briefly to address them. As regards the article mentioned here. 117 k.p.k., this is above all a proxy, there are guarantees of defence preserved, so there is no reason for certain activities to be carried out if there is this guarantee in the form designated by the person concerned himself, the representative. These few examples of your comments show that the objective we have set ourselves is absolutely right. The goal we have set is that the conclusion of the procedure, or the determination of material truth, will lead to a quick, as soon as possible, judgment. As a result, judges will spend less time on cases that are prolonged and will be able to do other things, so that those who are victimized will be able to look forward to justice more quickly. Mr Szczerba asked about prosecutorial matters. This, of course, is not the subject of the submission, but I think that as a Member from Warsaw he is able to compare the effectiveness of the prosecution before and after the changes. At that time, Mr Szczerba was not so active as to support the prosecution's activity in the evidently criminal activities that took place in the district from which he was elected, but today there is concern. It is a good thing that it was finally expressed. On the other hand, when it comes to these threats, I do not share them. [[That's an unsubstantiated argument.]] Mrs. Member! The substantive argument is very simple. Until 2017, there were no accusations of reprivatisation in Warsaw, and today the prosecution has shown how enormous the scale of corruption that prevailed under the nose of your vice-president is. [[Voice from the room: What about the envelope?]] So the reformed D.A.'s office definitely turned up. And congratulations to the prosecutors. [[What about the SKOKs?]] [[Voice from the room: And about Mr Kaczyński's envelope where is the decision?]] And the question raised by Mr Grabowski concerning the judges of peace. This is not a subject of submission either, but, of course, Minister Ziobro has a positive view of these concepts, but the various constructions of this concept sometimes require consideration as to whether a revision of the Constitution is required. Here the Ministry of Justice does not withdraw from these preliminary positive assessments regarding this project. Mr Jachnik also asked about the cooperation of Mrs Jachnik with the prosecutor's office. As far as I know, the Member has participated, for example. in talks on increases for judicial staff and prosecutors, so I hope that this cooperation will be undertaken. On the other hand, in the subject of the submission, we are convinced that the changes proposed by the Ministry of Justice will lead to the fact that, in many important matters, especially in major economic situations, the courts will be able to deliver judgments more quickly, the victims will see justice more quickly, and we will not observe the curiosity of the situation, such as reading the judgment for several months or reading the judgments in empty rooms. I understand that some may be interested in obstruction of justice work, but we will consistently improve it despite the voices of opposition that we have heard today. With regard to the amendments tabled by the Parliamentary Club to the High House, I would like to say that we support them as much as possible, we ask the House to accept them. To conclude, I thank Members for their work on this project and at the same time ask the High House to adopt the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u179	Thank you, Minister. In the procedure of correcting Mr Arkadiusz Myrch.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u180	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! You misunderstood us. Firstly, no one criticised the provision concerning the need to read the full content of the judgment. None of the speakers said that, so please don't tell us that. [[Applause]] Second thing. You only look at the problem from the prosecutor's point of view, while the judge is in the courtroom, and the other party, suspected in pretrial proceedings and accused. Until someone is convicted, he is an innocent person and has the right to defend himself in a trial. If you want to blindly try to speed up procedures at the expense of the defendant's ability to defend ourselves, we will have cases like Mr. Thomas Command in the future. And one last thing. If you want to remove the rules that can cause obstruction by analogy, I would propose to delete the rule on the possibility of dismissing a judge, only for this reason. [[♪ The bell ♪]] that in his personal case, Zbigniew Ziobro applied for the exclusion of nearly 300 judges in the District Court in Warsaw. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u181	Thank you. Please, Minister Sebastian Kalet.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u182	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Of course, the bill submitted does not violate the procedural guarantees of any person who is suspected and then accused. On key issues, if we go into these provisions in detail, Mr President, there is a clear reservation that this provision in question concerns inter alia. the question of not taking into account certain conclusions of evidence. In this case, it is not possible for this procedure to be applied in a situation in which the facts of all the perpetrators' qualities or issues related to the redecisive are concerned. So, in short, when it comes to anything directly related to the perpetrator, it affects the classification of the act, its culpability and its guilt, these provisions do not apply. So I would be grateful if, however, we stick strictly to the wording of the rule, because it is not that procedures are designed to make it difficult for suspects to defend themselves. They are to hinder the obstruction of proceedings by the fact that certain actions cannot be carried out by the court in due course. And the second point about the possibility of requesting the exclusion of judges. However, I believe that this is an acceptable procedure, for example. I wouldn't want some judges who scorn on television about breaking the Constitution in Poland... [[But so are you.]] ...when they thought I was on any case. [[But so are you.]] I don't think anybody, Member. [[If Judge Dudzicz or Judge Mither decides on your case, it's gonna be okay, it's gonna be great.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u183	Thank you very much. I invite the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Mark Ast.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u184	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! No questions were asked by the rapporteur, but there was a reservation on the way in which the legislation is made and the reference to the legislative process, so I would nevertheless like to stress here that, in the case of this proposal, this discussion was indeed complete both in the committee and in the subcommittee. I would therefore very much like to thank the opposition representatives for their work in committee, for their comments, sometimes critical. First of all, I would also like to thank the Ministry of Justice very warmly for their cooperation, also for their willingness to improve this project. There were many legislative remarks from the Legislative Bureau and here our Parliamentary Office Thanks, too. The social side was also involved, comments were made and, where possible, they were taken into account. In a word, I think we've managed, contrary to what you're saying, to come up with a good bill. I hope the High House will approve this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u185	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u186	The proposal proposes to introduce a single jurisdiction dispute resolution mechanism covering all types of jurisdiction and courts at all levels. According to the draft article. 38 § 1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the dispute concerning jurisdiction between courts is ultimately to be settled by a higher court competent in the light of the seat of the court which first opened the dispute. In the context of this change, I would like to ask about a situation where, for example, no court wishes to rule on the case in question, believing that it is wrong. There is a dispute at the moment, because the court to which another court handed over the case on grounds of jurisdiction does not agree with the judgment of the transferring court and does not accept the case. Will this mechanism help us to avoid situations like this?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u187	In the Minister's view, is it possible, within a reasonable period of time, to move completely to the electronic circulation of documents during the proceedings? Such a solution, using appropriate technical measures, could greatly reduce the duration of proceedings, while maintaining full access by the parties to evidence, protocols, etc. Are there obstacles to the application of e.g. modern speech recognition systems that can successfully facilitate and speed up recordings in case they are needed?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u188	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, an amendment was notified to the proposed amendment, pursuant to Article. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I am directing this draft law to the Extraordinary Commission for amendments to the codifications in order to submit a report. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Commission's draft law amending the Law on Law on Lawyers and the Law on Legal Counsels (Prints No. 3027 and 3568). I ask Mr Mark Ast to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u189	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I have the honour to present a report to the committee on the Commission's draft law amending the Law on Law of Lawyers and the Law on Legal Advisers from Print No. 3027. The committee's report is contained in print No 3568. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights carried out its first reading and considered the draft at its meetings on 13 February and 3 July 2019. The project came from the Committee on Petitions, is a committee project and meets the expectations of, of course, solicitors and counselors who, for random reasons, could not take the exam on time. Until now, it has been impossible for them to join again, if they fail to pass the exam in due time because of, for example, inability to work within 9 days and hospitalization at that time. In the course of the discussion, proposals were made primarily from the social side, representatives of the barrister's and counsellor's self-government, so that the conditions for setting an additional deadline would be more general, so that this reason would be indicated only as a legitimate reason, and those indicated in the Commission's draft as specific cases. However, the Ministry took the view that the proposal contained in the proposal was sufficient, and in this direction the solution finally adopted in the report went. The amendments tabled were indeed more editorial and legislative in nature. As I said, the committee finally worked out a project in line with the expectation and submission of petitions to the committee. In this situation, on behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I would of course ask the High House to approve the Commission proposal. By the way: of course, the opposition has also tabled amendments asking for them to be treated as minority proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u190	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Daniel Milewski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u191	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Facilitating citizens' access to legal assistance has been one of the fundamental demands of Law and Justice since the beginning of our formation. Actions such as increasing the availability of free legal assistance to those in need or lowering rates, which result in the fact that the aid provided for payment may be cheaper, are the best evidence that we take seriously the commitments made in this area. The issue of training lawyers and legal advisers is also part of this process. Therefore, as a Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, we have welcomed a petition to preserve the status of applicant for a long time in the case of people who are in a particular personal situation. The result of the legislative work on this proposal is that we are now discussing in the discussion the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Commission's draft law amending the Law on Lawyers and the Law on Lawyers. This petition from the committee is intended to enable lawyers and lawyers who, after the application has been completed, cannot take the nearest exam for reasons considered socially justified, to retain the applicant's rights for an additional year. Today, the professional council of lawyers or counsels must delete one year after each applicant's application has been completed, regardless of the reason why he did not take the exam in the near future. The problem arises when due to complications e.g. during pregnancy or maternity or long-term and serious illness, the applicant may not take the exam as soon as the application is completed. This is the opposite of the draft law. The social and legal consequences of the proposed law are very important. The Act is an important element of legal solutions aimed also at protecting motherhood, and also improves the life situation of people who, due to long-term illness, are unable to enter immediately after completion of the application for an attorney's or counsel's examination. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I ask the High House to support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u192	Thank you, sir. Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u193	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft by the Committee on Petitions is a project that has been approved by all the political groups in the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. It responds to expectations in the community of solicitor and solicitor applicants in terms of the possibility of extending the applicant's status by one year and joining the professional examination within a deferred period due to the occurrence of life situations preventing this examination from taking place in the original period. Although the project did not raise much controversy, it was the subject of an in-depth work involving representatives of both chambers, for which, of course, on behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I would like to thank you very much, but one issue nevertheless raised little doubt. The postulate of the subcommittee that worked on this project was that this directory of cases enabling the application to extend the status of the applicant should be established by an open directory. Both chambers, i.e. lawyers and lawyers, have made such a request, and it would appear that this postulate after adoption of it in accordance with the subcommittee meeting will be introduced into the draft law. Unfortunately, this did not happen, which we regret. Therefore, during the committee meeting, we tabled an appropriate amendment in this regard to make this catalogue an open catalogue giving the deans of chambers the tools to be able to assess each applicant's situation more freely and not limit it with a rigid corset of rules and three case-by-case cases. Unfortunately, at the committee meeting, this amendment was not accepted, and we have therefore tabled it as a minority request and we are maintaining it. We believe that this draft law certainly deserves full support, but it should be further extended to include the opening of this catalogue of reasons for extending the status of applicant. On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, we request that this project, which, as I said, deserves full support. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u194	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Jachnik, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u195	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I present our position on printing no. 3027, i.e. the draft law amending the Law on Lawyers and the Law on Legal Counsel. Well, it seems to me that there is no objection here that in special cases, for example. pregnancy or some chronic illness, this period is prolonged because the exams for legal counsel or lawyer are once a year and at a time when someone is long-term ill or a woman is pregnant, he cannot take the exam, and after this year he stays on ice. I was interested in another matter. Well, I've been from the beginning... I also referred to this project on behalf of the Committee on Petitions, and it was examined at the request of the Thomas Jefferson Institute. In so, it would seem, a simple and obvious matter, the Supreme Council of Attorneys and Lawyers make exactly two different opinions, as it would seem, in an obvious case. Lawyers say no, it shouldn't be, and lawyers say yes. Lawyers go even further, they bring up why only a woman, because this project is limited only to a woman who is pregnant, and for example. a person is pregnant or already had a baby, etc., it's a child or a child who takes care of marriage, so I'm surprised that this isn't something that a platform that cares so much about equality doesn't pick up. So it shows only one thing: how far lawyers from various corporations have left the cause of people. I was at the beginning and I have to say this: in the Committee on Petitions at the beginning and the Bar Council, and the Council of Legal Counsels was against this law. It took a lot of convincing, and that is also a compromise, because there were other proposals, but because they are not submitted, I will not mention them. Minister, in connection with this situation, I have one question for you at this point: do you foresee, and if so, when, a combination of the profession of legal counsel and lawyer? Because if, in such simple matters, there are two different positions in such obvious matters, unfortunately, you have to take these two masters by the ears and join them together - they may start to apply one law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u196	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Jan Mazowiecki, Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u197	High Seym! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland I have the honour to present my position on the draft law amending the Law on Lawyers and the Law on Legal Counsels. When leaning on this bill, you have to first answer the question: What was the designer's intention? This is the main reason for the particular life or health situation, which should not result in the automatic deletion of the solicitor's application and the solicitor's applicant from the list of applicants. In the current legal state, if the applicant does not take the exam as soon as the application is completed, the year after the application has been completed must be deleted from the list of applicants by the relevant local authority. Thus, he loses his right to replace a lawyer or counsel. As was rightly pointed out, the loss of this right may affect the professional situation of such an applicant. For example, after the loss of the right to replace the usefulness of such an applicant as an employee of the firm, it significantly decreases. The original wording of the draft law forgot to amend the article. Article 77 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Law on Lawyer and Art. Article 35 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Laws on Legal Counsels. Due to the comments made by the National Council of Legal Counsels, appropriate amendments were made. It is a pity that the current parliamentary majority, as well as the President-in-Office of Justice, so rarely listen to the voice of the Radical and Lawyers' Governments, which was particularly evident at the so-called. reform of the justice system. According to Art. Article 77 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Law on Law on Lawyer and Art. Article 35 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Law on legal counsels Lawyer and solicitor respectively can replace lawyer and legal counsel for a period of one year from the date of completion of the application indicated in the application certificate. The applicant's right to replace a lawyer and a lawyer respectively has been treated by the legislator independently of the applicant's status. Therefore, in order to ensure that the applicant does not lose this right and that his/her professional situation does not deteriorate, the provisions mentioned above need to be amended. As a result of the procedated amendment, the district attorney's council and the district council of the Chamber of Legal Counsels may, by a resolution at the request of the applicant submitted before the end of the year following the end of the application and on the basis of the documents presented, extend the period by 1 year in the event of certain circumstances preventing the entry into the bar examination as soon as possible after the end of the bar application. These circumstances include birth by the applicant of the child in the last year of the solicitor's application or during the period from the end of the child's examination to the date of completion of the bar examination or when the date of birth has been fixed at a date not later than 3 months from the date of completion of the bar examination, the applicant's occurrence of complications related to the course of pregnancy lasting at least 30 days during the last 6 months of the bar application or during the period from the end of the period until the end of the bar examination and the illness of the applicant causing incapacity to work for at least 90 days or requiring hospitalisation for at least 21 days during the last 6 months of the bar application or during the period from the end of the bar examination to the date of the end of the bar examination. As the Supreme Bar Council rightly points out, the birth of a child is a very important event for the mother's woman, but not only for the father's man. You can ask the question: What if, for example, The applicant's baby's mother will die in childbirth, and he's the only breadwinner in the family? What about a person who is a chronically ill child? A catalogue containing cases that allow for an extension of the period for entering the professional examination should be open and not closed, because life is always a step ahead of the law, never the other way around. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. Marshal, one minute, one second. Nevertheless, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland is in favour of this bill. Let him serve solicitors and counselors in a difficult situation of life. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u198	Thank you very much. There are no questions. [[Me too.]] There's one question. Excuse me, sir. Mr Grabowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u199	Excuse me, Marshal, I thought someone had signed up for the question. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question. We are talking about a barrister and counsellor who provides legal assistance to citizens. On the one hand, higher legal awareness makes it harder for citizens to cheat, it is harder to put them on the proverbial face, but not all citizens have the chance, the opportunity to build their legal awareness. This is why lawyers and lawyers come with the help of lawyers, who are to represent citizens in their affairs, defend their interests. My question is how the Ministry of Justice views the liberalisation of legal advertising rules. I ask you to answer this question in writing, because the Minister, I think, is not prepared at this moment, because this question is from a slightly different scope. I think this is about having a wise, calm discussion about the liberalisation of legislation. I'm not saying free American. However, the aim is to make legal services, professional legal services for citizens better and more accessible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u200	Thank you, sir. I invite the representative of the applicants of Mr Sławomir Jan Piechota.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u201	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! This bill is an example of the effectiveness of the Petition system. The bill's proposal for such a change was influenced by a group of young people associated with the Jeffersonian. The discussion of the project lasted for a long time, almost 3 years, as almost 3 years ago the petition of the Marshal of the Sejm was influenced by the petition. During these three years there has been a very patient and concrete discussion. The initial rather rigid positions of the parties have been mitigated, and a wise and good compromise has been found, especially for young parents and especially for young mothers. Let me remind you that so far there has been a specific guillotine in these regulations. You should have taken the exam within a year of completing the application. If the applicant did not take such an examination, he was automatically deleted from the list of applicants with all the resulting consequences. At the moment, we don't impose anything on local governments. On the other hand, we propose that, in such special situations as those mentioned in the Act, the local government may consider that the examination may take place within the next year. We are therefore introducing the possibility for the local government to recognise exceptional situations. He is best placed to see how much care the applicant has made so far, to participate in compulsory activities, to what extent he was actually going to pass the exam. So this is a good and patiently worked-out compromise. I would also like to thank everyone for their cooperation, because the initial position of the Ministry of Justice and the local government, especially legal advisers, was rather sceptical, but the discussion and further arguments argued and were heard. That's how the bill was designed. All I can say is that during this end of the term, more than 600 petitions were received by the Marshal of the Sejm. Of these over 600 petitions, more than 60 draft laws have been created to respond to the very specific needs of specific people. I think it is proof that this system of petitioning, not only in our parliament, but also in all the other bodies to which petitions are addressed, distribute as much as possible, so that people know that there is such a procedure, and can use it. So let's stick to the principle: Don't lay down your weapons, petition. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u202	Thank you very much, sir. In the procedure of correcting Mr Jerzy Jachnik.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u203	I'm sorry, but it's the Sejm's policy that I have to pull it. Well, I had to ask for the floor after Mr Piechota spoke. I would like to say - and at the same time make a request and ask all the committee chairmen - that it is possible to work properly in committee despite various political views, as an example of which is the petition committee. So I have a question for the president whether it would be possible to work normally on the justice committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u204	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Sebastian Kaleta, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u205	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The Ministry of Justice and the Government express a positive opinion on the project submitted. It solves a problem that may not be numerically affecting a large group of people, but each of them has its life plans, ambitions and dreams. If possible, the High House can change this reality for these people. This proposal meets certain expectations, fills a gap and deserves recognition. On the other hand, with regard to the minority proposal - as Mr Jachnik pointed out, only two main professional authorities were unable to deliver a single opinion on this solution, i.e. there is a contradiction. If a minority request were accepted, the concept of a general clause would be interpreted by 43 district chambers of counsel and counsel. There would be a situation where chaos could arise in terms of what is considered an important cause and what is not. For this reason, it has been possible to create circumstances that give the opportunity to extend the period, give the opportunity to represent customers, to maintain cooperation with the firm, which is very important from the perspective of the professional development of the people affected. The solution that has been developed is much better, it does not pose a risk of conflicting interpretations, which can then go on for years, and people with this status will actually live in uncertainty about their professional situation for many years. Therefore, as a government, we recommend that the minority request should not be accepted by the High House. Therefore, in support of this bill, we ask the High House to accept it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u206	Thank you, Minister. I invite Mr Mark Ast, the rapporteur of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u207	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In addition to this doubt and in response to the proposal, I would add that the discussion at the committee meeting on the extension of the catalogue and the opening of the catalogue actually took place. This was advocated primarily by the council and counsel authorities, but here, according to the Ministry's explanations, it was decided, first of all, that the Ministry had given a positive opinion on the project which had been received from the petition committee with a closed catalogue. At the same time, in full agreement with what the Minister said, it must be added that the opening of the catalogue will create a large margin of discretion on the part of local governments, i.e. in the same case different decisions can be made: in one local government positive decisions, in the other - negative decisions. So the closed directory categorically requires that the applicant's application for an extension be taken into account in the case indicated in the draft cases. Thank you very much to President Sławomir Piechota for handing over... the work of the subcommittee on this project. Thank you very much to the government side and of course to all committee members for working on this successful project, which will serve all applicants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u208	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u209	Is the wording of the proposed wording as an option for a decision by the Bar Council or the Chamber of Legal Counsel, and not as an obligation to adopt it in a situation of compliance with certain conditions, sufficient?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u210	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the National Defence Commission on the Government bill amending the Act on Veterans of Action outside the State and some other laws (Prints 3521 and 3601). I ask Mr Wojciech Buczak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u211	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on National Defence in print No 3601 on the government draft law amending the Act on Veterans of Action outside the State and some other laws, print No 3521. The Parliament held its 83rd meeting on 3 July. pursuant to Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred the above draft law to the Committee on National Defence for consideration. The Commission, after considering this draft law at its meeting on 4 July this year. requests that the High Sejm adopt the attached draft law. The draft law deals with the formulation of provisions enabling the system of assistance to be implemented more effectively to participants outside the national borders. It extends the scope of the matter and ensures greater consistency between the existing rules governing the powers of veterans and veterans affected. It is worth noting that the proposed amendment in some sense makes up for the backlog you have on veterans. It takes into account a number of demands raised by the veteran community in 2016 and eliminates doubts arising during the process of granting veteran or veteran status to the injured. The bill proposes, among others, increase the threshold of the allowance for the injured veteran, appreciating the commitment of the service to the risk of health and life during activities outside the country, granting an allowance of 5% dimension base for injured veteran who was found to be between 1% and 9% damage to health, thereby extending the entitlement to the allowance to all veterans affected. Until now, only people with 10% or higher health damage have been entitled to this supplement. Responding to the demands of the veterans' community and taking into account the possibilities to finance them, in order to ensure that the material situation of the veterans was improved, the principle that the higher the health loss, the greater the increase in the amount of the allowance for the injured veteran. In individual ranges, the amount of the supplement will be from 5% of the size base - precisely with a health risk of between 1% and 9%. - up to 130% of the size base if this loss is above 90%. In addition, a number of other benefits and allowances are proposed. Introduced, among others. The limitation of the Veteran's residence fee for the injured veteran has been extended to all veterans affected by reduced travel by public collective transport. The Act also introduces free use of sports halls, gyms or swimming pools in the resources of local self-government units. It is also expected that, along with the veteran injured in the tournaments, his next adult family member will be able to participate free of charge. The cost of such a stay will, of course, be borne by the state budget. Importantly, the bill was not controversial. During the discussion of this project, no more serious comments were made. I think this is very positive about the work of the current government and parliament. On behalf of the Committee on National Defence, I ask the High House to pass a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u212	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Michał Jach, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u213	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The care - and responsibility - of the states over soldiers shows the right approach and the correct understanding of the state's security problem. But caring, caring for veterans, soldiers who take part in various missions throughout the globe and risk their lives and health to ensure world peace is a special responsibility, the responsibility of every country. It is very important that you respond quickly and in an appropriate way to the needs of this environment. For us, for the club Law and Justice, it is very important that the government undertook this task and in preparation for the amendment of Print Act No. 3521 introduced solutions, which are the answer to demands, to the expectations of the veterans' environment. Because veterans with their example, their service, their participation in the most difficult tasks in the most endangered places on earth show not only patriotism, but also responsibility and sacrifice. And it is natural for the state to seek out soldiers, especially those who have been harmed on missions, to provide all the possibilities so that they can function normally, so that, God forbid, they do not feel forgotten. Mr. Marshal! This amendment is a response to virtually all the expectations of this environment, but on behalf of the club Law and Justice I will also make a request for seven amendments to the bill under review. The first amendment concerns the regulation of Veterans' leave. The second amendment extends additional care to veterans who, being professionally outside their accommodation or on trips for any other purpose, for research, for rehabilitation, will be able to use the premises belonging to the national defence department. It is also important to see the sixth amendment, which includes officers of the Marshal's Guard in the category of veterans. The other amendments clarify or clarify certain provisions. These solutions will allow veterans to feel, to make sure that the state that the Ministry of National Defense and the entire society appreciate their dedication and service outside the country. I am convinced that even in the future, even if life shows that care for veterans can still be improved, the government will certainly and immediately proceed with the amendment. Because it will probably still be possible, given the development of technology, the development of rehabilitation opportunities or the possibility of creating other systems to restore veterans to [[♪ The bell ♪]] functioning in society. The Law and Justice Club fully supports the bill under review.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u214	Thank you very much. Mrs Bożena Kamińska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u215	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present an opinion on the Act amending the Act on Veterans of Activities outside the State and on certain other laws, prints No 3521 and 3601, and amendments concerning this project. Minister! High Izbo! This law is very important and has been expected for a very long time by the veterans, especially veterans injured on missions outside our country. This bill waited nearly 4.5 years. So much has been waited to deal with this amendment and lean on the needs of all the veterans' environments. This law also provides veterans with a super-standard level of healthcare, including funding. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - The Civic Coalition agrees that this law is needed to regulate, regulate, meet the needs of veterans. However, referring to what is here, from this speaker at first reading said the Minister of National Defence, Mr Mariusz Błaszczak, that veterans are national good, we would like all veterans, especially veterans harmed, to be treated equally as national good. This sacrifice often of life, and above all health on missions outside the country is worth ensuring that the Polish state takes care of, in particular health-promoting, veterans. All veterans injured, as is apparent from the justification of the bill amendment... It shows that as of June 23, 2017, Minister, all veterans injured, I am talking about veterans injured, I want to emphasize this strongly, we have in our country 791/724 people in the department of national defence and 67 people in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. In this law, the state in particular distinguishes and gives additional privileges, i.e. health support, the provision of free medical services, also the possibility to benefit from professional training, education, only to victims of veterans who have a minimum of 30% health damage. That's only 120 of those 791. We really do not find any justification why the Polish state cannot afford to treat all veterans affected in the same way, which are less than 800 in our country, please. It is also stated in the explanatory memorandum that these changes do not entail any financial, budgetary costs, because it is to be financed from the budgets of individual ministries, so all the more so we find no justification why we should divide the veterans affected into those who have a minimum of 30% damage, and the others, and treat them differently. Because what's the difference between this veteran that has a loss of 28%, 25%, 23%? And the one who's 30%? Minister, we know that these veterans often have massive psychological traumas and need this support. Once again, on behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, I propose to extend the rights, to extend a group of veterans injured outside the country to people with a minimum of 10% health damage and to extend the list of veterans outside the country to civil PKW employees assigned to work on missions outside the country. The Civic Platform Club - The Civic Coalition makes 10 amendments to the bill, print 3521 and print 3601, and asks for them to be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u216	Thank you. And I invite Mr Radosław Lubczyk, Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u217	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We have come to bow our heads on the bill concerning people of particular importance in the history of our country, our homeland, who have contributed to increasing its security and strengthening its position on the international stage as an ally of the highest trust, i.e. Veterans and veterans injured. The total number of veterans and veterans affected by all formations is over 18 thousand. The fate of these people is what we want to improve through the implementation of various demands, which were reported in 2016 and 2017 by the veterans' community. We therefore want to eliminate any doubts related to the process of granting the veteran or veteran status to the injured. No more problems in this area. This is just one of the many solutions proposed. Art. The 5th proposed law will help us to get rid of these doubts. According to it, the veteran status will be granted by the body which last directed the person concerned to participate in activities outside the country if he has participated several times in various activities outside our country. In the event of any amendment to that decision, it is proposed that it be issued by the public administration which issued it, even if the change results from a change in service and from a personal injury. In order to ensure full compatibility of the rules, it is suggested that an application for the status of a veteran or injured veteran must be accompanied by a statement from the applicant that he is serving as a soldier, an officer, an ABW officer, an AW officer, or a statement of the worker's employment relationship as referred to in Article. 12 Act on Veterans of Action outside the State. Separation of provisions on ABW and AW officers is proposed to facilitate the application of the rules and to authorise the head of AW to grant the veteran or veteran status to the injured person. This requires, in fact, that all the provisions in which the phrase "ABW" is changed, therefore, in Article. 4 point 18a will be added the phrase "ECO'. The understanding of the phrase "Veteran's House" will also be clarified. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 4 will be added point 20, in which we will find its definition. The project proposes the following understanding of the Veteran House: The concept of Veteran House includes a medicinal facility performing medical activities in the form of fixed and 24-hour health benefits, other than hospital benefits, operating within the framework of a medicinal entity within the meaning of the Act of 15 April 2011 on medicinal activities for which the entity is the Minister of National Defence, the Minister responsible for Home Affairs, the Head of Intelligence Service and the Head of the Internal Security Agency. The aim of the project is also to amend the definition of a peace or stability mission, i.e. Article 2 Point 4 (3) by its extension and a similar amendment to Article. 7 of the Act - extension of the list of documents submitted together with the application for veteran status to the applicant for a declaration of service as a soldier, officer, ABW officer or AW officer respectively, and of the degree of service held or of the worker's employment relationship as referred to in Article. 12 the Act on Veterans of Action outside the State, and a statement of the veteran or veteran status of the injured person granted by one of the bodies in Article. 5 of this bill. Another group of changes aims to facilitate the provision of psychological assistance and health care to veterans and their families. Expressions have been adapted to the current nomenclature. It is advisable to limit the amount of fees for stays at the veteran's home to an amount equivalent to 50% monthly income of a veteran calculated according to social assistance regulations. We want veteran homes to be the place for the most injured veterans, with priority for those who deserved our country the most, or for those decorated with an award or a military cross. The authority leading the veteran's home would issue an appropriate certificate of priority to obtain a place in such a centre, and the application would be accompanied by an appropriate document to establish the specific merits or honour the aforementioned awards. Another facilitation in everyday life will be the proposed extension of the Article. 30, which will enable all veterans affected to obtain relief for journeys by public transport. We also want to introduce the possibility of staying the nearest adult person on the readaptational-conditional tournaments. Such presence - based on existing [[♪ The bell ♪]] experience - has a huge impact on the effectiveness of the treatment process and should therefore be seen as a very important element in supporting the whole process of improving mental health, adapting the victim to the re-functioning in society and restoring damaged relationships and relationships.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u218	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u219	Parliamentary Club PSL - Coalition Poland will vote in favour of this law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u220	Thank you, sir. Let's get to the questions. If anyone else wants to enroll, I would like to invite you. Question time - 1 minute. Mr Marcin Kierwiński has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u221	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Civic Platform - Coalition Club has tabled an amendment to supplement this law. It's a very important group of people who served on missions who were in charge of servicing equipment and are not included in the Veterans Act. These are people who carried out tasks commissioned to them by authorities supervised by the Ministry of National Defence, people who were stationed with Polish soldiers in military bases. This is approx. 200-250 people who are excluded from the Veterans Act. It seems very unfair that people who often three - they've been on all kinds of missions four times, they can't apply for veteran status. We have tabled an appropriate amendment. This is a good time to change this law in this respect. Minister! I think we all agree that this bill is insanely important to all those who have put their lives at risk. [[♪ The bell ♪]] For the country. It is worthwhile to take care of these people, too, during this revision. I would really recommend that you, as the Ministry of National Defence, approach this precisely as part of such an extension thought.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u222	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u223	It's worth helping people like that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u224	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Jarosław Goncier.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u225	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Art. The 11th draft law constitutes and at the same time amends the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare, which assumes that the scope of additional health needs is determined taking into account the opinion of a medical consultant. I would like to ask you about the frequency of these consultations. Will they be random or repetitive? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u226	Thank you. Mr Czesław Mroczek. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u227	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I told you that the Platform government created a whole system of care and support for soldiers, veterans injured in the service. The Veterans Act adopted in 2011 is the culmination of these actions. We prepared amendments to this law in 2015 and we wanted to fix it. Unfortunately, these changes have been waiting nearly four years for us to take care of them today. Question: "Why?" But there's one more question. Veterans support system isn't just about veterans. It is also good cooperation between MON and the Veterans' community, which represent various associations, foundations, the Union of Polish Army Soldiers. Some of these organisations met with harassment by the Ministry of National Defence from 2016 onwards. You guys broke off a good relationship. I want to ask you today, [[♪ The bell ♪]] how MON cooperates with the Foundation no one stays with the veterans. Why was this cooperation discontinued after 2015? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u228	Thank you. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence, Mr Wojciech Skurkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u229	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for these amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, we will refer to the content of the amendments during the meeting of the Committee on National Defence, after a thorough examination of them, but I would like to draw attention to a few points. The first and perhaps most important issue. Ladies and gentlemen, this law is the result of cooperation, such a kind of consensus, in a good sense, and agreement with the veterans' community. These are numerous meetings, these are dozens of hours of meetings, meetings, discussions, and these are the areas that veterans have been paying attention to in their speeches. As with this stronger support for those injured who have a health injury of more than 30%, this is the glare of these talks when these veterans signaled the issue of stronger support. This has been repeated on several occasions with regard to paid or unpaid medical services. Here we also introduce free medications for those who have health problems above 30%. But please bear in mind that in connection with the wounds sustained, due to the specific ailments which are the result, the result of the wounds or events sustained, for all, regardless of whether they have a health injury of 1%, 2%, 5%, 10% or 25% In connection with these injuries, this care is free of charge, as well as any security and medications are free of charge. It's all on a refinancing basis. Upon presentation of the account, we transfer or transfer funds to the indicated account. Ladies and gentlemen! I can't agree with the words that there are any harassments against one, the other or the fifth association, because that is absolutely not true. The association you are talking about, Mr President, is cooperating - and this cooperation is working well - with the centre of the foreign mission veteran and there are no slightest problems in this regard. As regards issues relating to cooperation generally understood with non-governmental organisations, including associations that bring together veterans, we are organising grant competitions. There's a dozen-member committee at the grant competitions. It is this committee that takes decisions on the basis of the substance of how and for what purpose this support will be provided. So this charge regarding, I don't know, the harassment you're talking about, I absolutely cannot accept, and I absolutely disagree with it. I know what association you are talking about, and I will repeat again: this association works very closely with the veteran centre and this cooperation is assessed very well, it is evaluated positively. [[Soldiers' union...]] As for, ladies and gentlemen, the issue that Mrs Kamińska and Mr Kierwiński spoke about here, we see this problem, but please bear in mind that as the Ministry of National Defence, we sign appropriate agreements with various entities, with those dependent on the Minister of National Defence and those who are, in general, private entities. And it's all under civil law agreements. These people, as mentioned here, were neither employees of the national defence department, were neither soldiers in the service, so today the Ministry of National Defence is not able to formally support such people, because they are now employees of private companies or companies that operate within the Polish Armed Forces Group, e.g. The Rosomak company. So that's not an option here. I'll say it again. The presence of these persons involved in the servicing of equipment, with repairs of equipment within the PKW was due to civil law agreements between the Ministry of National Defence and the entity who subsequently designated them. for corrective actions regarding equipment which is equipped with the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. Let me repeat: We will refer to the amendments at the committee meeting. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u230	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Bożena Kamińska, as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u231	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm gonna be here again very much, but it's been really asking you to lean on the veterans who've been hurt in particular, because it's a small group. And I would like to say that of course they are covered by additional benefits, but why can only veterans with at least 30% health damage benefit from free healthcare and pharmaceutical services? While according to this directory they can use these permissions e.g. Veterans, anti-communist opposition activists, military substitute soldiers, cannot be harmed by veterans on missions outside the country. Really, Minister, let's not be soulless. Let's help everyone. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u232	Thank you. Minister Wojciech Skurkiewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u233	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! Once again, I apologize: If these injuries that were sustained on missions are directly related to actions, to what happened during these events, accidents, etc., then these people - whether they have 1%, 5% , or 25% - are equally protected by the Ministry of National Defence in this area, including pharmaceutical, orthopaedic, etc., etc. That is, if it is directly related to this incident. [[Then what's the record for?]] That's how it's written and we've already talked about it. As far as people with more than 30% health damage are concerned, they will have e.g. access to free medicines to the full extent. [[Everyone should.]] But you will admit that this is the thing that they deserve absolutely. Thank you very much. [[All due respect, Minister.]] Yeah, I get it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u234	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u235	Minister! I have the following question: To what extent, apart from the forms of assistance for the veterans affected, are the possibilities for their further service or work in their formations also in other positions?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u236	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on National Defence in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy on the draft act presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the implementation of social services by the Social Services Centre (prints No. 3040 and 3590). I ask Mrs Joanna Borowiak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u237	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, I present a report on the draft act submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland on the implementation of social services by the Social Services Centre, print No. 3040. The committee's report is contained in print No 3590. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy held its first reading at its meeting on 4 July and considered the draft. The submission concerns the possibility for local authorities to provide social services in line with the needs of local communities, and it should be noted that setting up a social services centre is an option and not an obligation for municipalities. The main objective of the project is the development and integration of the social services system at local level, a faster and more flexible adaptation of municipalities to emerging new needs of residents, including older people and people with disabilities. It's a modern formula for meeting social needs. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The members of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy unanimously gave a positive opinion submission. The Commission calls on the High Sejm to adopt a draft act presented by the President on the implementation of social services by the Social Services Centre. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u238	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Bernadette Krynick will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Come on in, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u239	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the club Law and Justice on the presidential draft law on social services provided by the social services centre, print No. 3040. The aim of the legal solutions is to develop and integrate the social services system at local level. Social phenomena in recent years, the ageing of the population, the weakening of intergenerational ties in the family have led to a steady increase in demand for social services by public authorities. The legal framework to facilitate the integration and coordination of actions by local authorities, the introduction of new services, the improvement of their quality and quality of life of society and the better use of resources. The development of the social services system is considered to be an indication of the operation of the so-called "social services system." social investment policy. The creation of integrated local service systems fosters cross-sectoral cooperation and the exploitation of the potential of third sector organisations fosters the integration of territorial communities. The activities of the centres will facilitate access to social services for a wider population. Municipal authorities will be able to respond well and more comprehensively to the changing needs of local communities. In the systemic aspect, centres will constitute an institutional bridge between, on the one hand, social support organised according to the principle of selectivity and addressed to the most vulnerable people and families and, on the other hand, social support of a general nature with services offered to all concerned residents. Using the formula of the social service centre, support of a general and selective nature is mutually positioned in such a way that the support addressed to the most deprived becomes complementary to the universal programmes. The establishment of a social service centre will create optimal organisational and formal conditions for the development of social services as an important type of public service. At the same time, it will allow for the continuation of selective programmes aimed at vulnerable people and families under existing conditions using social services and their experience in social work. The concept of centres is consistent with national social policy. The integration of social services and the development of social area infrastructure, including in rural and outermost areas, is in line with the objectives of the Responsible Development Strategy. It is also consistent in substance with the 500+ programme, because the development of social services has a clear pro-family profile and will be built by local authorities to secure the needs of the family. The mission of the centres is actually to increase the availability of social services. The services will be addressed to all interested residents, not just the people and families most in need. The offer of centres will also provide a supply response to the growing demand for social services thanks to the 500+ programme. It should be added that such centres arise in our country bottom-up. In Warsaw, Lublin, Gdynia. They respond to the needs of local governments, have tangible effects, have a positive impact on the development of cooperation between local government and the third sector. The assumptions of this bill were widely presented, among others. by representatives of local government, experts, representatives of civil sector organisations, and the project itself was consulted with academics involved in social policy, members of the Social Assistance Council, representatives of local government, social workers and representatives of non-governmental organisations. Comments to the project were also made via e-mail. The project presented is undoubtedly a real answer to the challenges facing Poland, which Polish municipalities face in the field of social services. It introduces solutions to facilitate the organisation and efficient provision of coordinated social services for a growing group of people in need of such support from year to year. Taking all this into account, the Law and Justice Club welcomes the draft law presented and on the basis of the article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland on behalf of the club Law and Justice I propose amendments to this project and ask for further proceedings over the draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u240	Thank you very much, Member. The position of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club will be presented by Mrs Ewa Drozd. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u241	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! To begin with, before I move on to presenting the position of my Civic Platform-Citizen Coalition Club, I would like to object in this Chamber to breaking the rules and violating the good customs of this House. Well, today's law, which is important to meet today's challenges of social assistance, or rather of social policy, should be dealt with with with with particular care. [[But it is.]] We should all want the document drawn up to be welcomed by the environment, but for this to be the case, we need a broad discussion, a hearing of the voice and proposals of those who will implement it. Unfortunately, it wasn't. You have had time since December 2018 to plan this, prepare and invite the representatives you have been talking about who are interested in this subject for the committee meeting, because they will be the ones who will carry out these important tasks for the local community. So? You called them all of a sudden, 12 hours before, surprising this decision... [[In accordance with the procedure, Madame, in accordance with the procedure.]] ...messenger, even us, members of the committee. [[Applause]] And there are still a lot of doubts and lack of answers to important questions. Perhaps we could learn at this meeting what financial support is needed for the local governments that want to develop it, to deepen without doubt the expected changes, and what finance is envisaged by the government, because without funding, without even planning EU funds after 2020 for the development of these services and investments by the state and local authorities in this area, and the mandatory and not optional implementation of the provisions of this law, perhaps when introducing transitional provisions for local authorities, it can be assumed that the law will be dead. Because we know that today, without the law, this form is implemented by wealthier local governments. Another important question that has not been answered is the question of the participation of the counties which already carry out a large part of the social assistance tasks. Their role in this bill is minimized, and it should certainly be equivalent. Minister, I understand, although this did not sound during the entire process of proceding this law, that its implementation would be linked to the increase in salaries of employees of the social assistance system and other services. [[Applause]] If not, how do you want to convince this precious, expected 30 years after the transformation of the system, a thorough reconstruction of the system's social assistance solutions? High Izbo! However, given the importance and good direction of the solutions proposed in this law, we will vote in favour, but in order to resolve our doubts about the effectiveness of these provisions, I am amending that the government should report to the Sejm after a period of 3 years on the implementation of this law. Your Marshal, your amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u242	Thank you, Member. On behalf of the Kukiz Posel Club15, Ms Agnieszka Szczaj will present her position. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u243	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz club15 on the proposed presidential act on social services provided by the social services centre from print No. 3040. As I pointed out before, for me, for my club after some deeper analysis This is a very good bill, a project that is really expected. Few of this is a project to which practically some actions have led, already implemented in some municipalities, municipalities which are precursors, in local governments which are precursors of the expected changes. After 30 years of transformation, when the structure of social problems changed dramatically, the whole socio-economic environment, when we learned many innovative and innovative methods of working and solving social problems, among others. because we are in the European Union, among others. because we implemented good pilot projects in which we tested new methods, implemented them from other countries, and in many of these projects they simply worked out, so far there has been no government proposal for systemic reconstruction or changes in the form of social services or social assistance, labour offices, ILOS, NGOs. These things happen, remotely, downstairs, and this bill meets these expectations and needs. Of course, this is a task that is not mandatory, which may become part of the municipal system, but there is no obligation to do so. This is a law that responds to such a need: since it is happening in local governments, a legal framework is needed so that it is not necessary to do, I apologize for the word, guerrillas in the case of different solutions, only that it is possible to support specific legal provisions. I find a lot of inaccuracies and things in this bill that I have doubts about, how they will work in practice, but I think there is no other way to find out - you just have to start doing it or let the local governments do it, and treat it as a piloting act. I hope, as I said earlier, that this law will be monitored very strongly and will also be assessed on the basis of experience, that is, what will happen in the municipalities. I would like to say that I am missing one thing here, Minister, but I hope that this will also be subject to evaluation. Well, the whole social policy and the way in which social problems are solved at the moment should be directed primarily towards a holistic approach to the family. So not a specific social problem, not a sectorally considered problem of unemployment, disability in the family or any addiction, violence, because we should look at families holistically, diagnose, together with this family plan a way out of these problems and choose different methods. These various methods, I understand, will be selected by contracting services from a social service centre with the participation of a social worker, a person who will be the guardian of the family, and will be selected simply from what is already happening on the market, i.e. in non-governmental organisations that have carried out these projects, and in other institutions. But I will return to thinking about what I miss. Greater adherence to labour market policy, to tasks carried out by labour offices, to the Labour Market Institutions Act, because the structure of unemployment has changed. First of all, we see that it has fallen dramatically. In fact, there is no unemployment that would require as much involvement of public institutions as labour offices, which are not effective, as I have already mentioned many times today. Perhaps social service centres will be more closely involved in the tasks carried out by labour offices financed by the Labour Fund, especially those which are addressed to a group which has the most difficult situation in the labour market, which is the most distant from this market, i.e. the long-term unemployed, people with disabilities, because everyone who works or worked in these institutions knows well that in the case of such people it is not enough to mediate work, but modern methods must be chosen, very individualised, so that they can be restored to the labour market. I think that forms of assistance such as the employment coach supported or other approach in NGOs and social assistance units are well implemented. It is worth thinking about whether it would be useful to increase efficiency among this group, which accounts for 70% of the clients of the labour offices, and whether this should not be combined with this law, and in fact whether it would be appropriate to move the tasks of working to the Ministry of Economy and combine them with those of employers and the labour market, because that is the expectation. Of course, my club will support this project, which I personally am very happy about and thank you for. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u244	Thank you very much, Member. The position of the Parliamentary Club Polish People's Party - Coalition Mr Krystian Jarubas wrote in writing. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan also put her position in writing on behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarni Circle. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to add yourself to the list of questions? I don't see any calls, so I'm closing the list. Mr Szczerba, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, will be asked as the first question. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] I don't see a Member, so another person. Mrs Maria Nowak, Law and Justice. There isn't any either. Ms Agnieszka Hanaczyk, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. I would like to invite you, Member. I'm determining the time to ask a question - 1 minute. Is that enough? That's enough, ma'am. [[One and a half.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u245	Maybe that's enough. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I want to ask you a question. I have read the project several times and I want to ask what the real intention of the legislator is. Is this about the CUS operating next door or instead of social services? Of course, I'm talking about a certain period of time. I'd like to ask you specifically about the article. Article 23 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6, where it is written that a 24-hour stay unit cannot function in the organizational structure of the centre. Minister, I know the social services centre where the accommodation centre operates, and there has already been efforts to establish a social services centre. What does that mean? What kind of structure would the hostel work in? That's one thing. The second point concerns Article. 23. On the one hand, you say, and it is very good, that the local community, the glazeers, the self-governments themselves will recognize what is best for them, but in the article. 23 in turn it was indicated what the organizational structure should look like. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Director, organizational team, etc. Have you thought, after all, to ease this administrative regime at the CUS?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u246	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform. [[And Eve Drozd?]] Oh, I'm sorry. Mrs Ewa Drozd. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u247	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have talked a lot about this bill, and I really have to say that these are very interesting solutions that should go to the citizens. I'm just afraid, Minister, if it's optional, it won't quite work. I do not know whether you are so concerned that this can lead to an unequal exercise by citizens of their social and civil rights. One municipality will implement this law and the other municipality will not. Some citizens will be able to use these forms and others will not. Wouldn't it be better to motivate local governments, extend this term and do it in a mandatory way? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u248	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u249	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The creation by municipalities of social services centres as new institutions to provide various forms of assistance to people and families raises a number of concerns. According to some local authorities, the new law is not necessary at all. The municipalities can already create such centres under the Social Assistance Act and the Municipal Government Act, and this is what happens. Moreover, financial issues are of great importance for the development of social services. Therefore, among others. Local authorities do not agree to the merger of services within several municipalities. It is difficult to expect that the organisational change itself and the establishment of a new institution will help to improve the current situation. I would like to ask whether the implementation of this law makes any sense and whether it is a good direction for changes in social policy. There is a need for change, but this change is thoughtless. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What financial resources will be allocated to local government units to implement this law? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u250	Thank you, Member. I invite Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u251	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to follow my colleagues, Mrs Ewa Drozd, who, on behalf of the club, has spoken for Mrs Agnieszka Hanajczyk, as Mrs Navel, to ask the same questions. Minister! If the President sees the need to set up a social service centre in the field of social assistance, it would be worth talking, at least with the government, about what measures will follow, how the government will be able to carry out this task, not instead of a social assistance centre, but alongside it, and what new benefits will be made to those in need. That's one thing. Secondly: Is this a solution that we introduce in every local government? After all, the local government without additional resources has the right to create various programs, implement [[♪ The bell ♪]] They eat even in closed periods to help the local community. Thus, despite excellent solutions, this does not respond to the most important problems and needs in the local community. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u252	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u253	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question: Do these CUSs have a chance to replace the previous ILOS system or some of the competences of inefficient labour offices? The question is: If we are to create an additional system of social services, just additional officials, is this the direction? Maybe it would be better to simplify, harmonise and, for example, I want these social services centers, according to the president's idea, to be the seed of a new system. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u254	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u255	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Print number 3040. In order to ensure real universal access to service infrastructure at a high level, all financial resources to finance social services centres should be combined. One such resource is European funding. At the same time, I would like to ask you about the use of EU funds for social services centres. Will this law apply any mechanism which, once the funds are exhausted, will not condemn such a municipal centre to liquidation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u256	Thank you very much. And the last question will be asked by Mr Andrzej Gawron, Law and Justice. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u257	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I thank the President for this initiative, because every such action in the social services dimension is received positively, because quite a lot of people report to the parliamentary office. I think this field is still for development. I have a question: Have these experiences of local governments, which already operate in a similar way, been taken into account in the drafting of the law, the draft law? It is also about this obligation or voluntaryity. Here we could really think about regulations that would motivate local governments to create a social service centre in their own territory. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u258	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Paweł Mucha, Deputy Head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, will speak on behalf of the representative of the applicants. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u259	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for the statements made in support of the Presidential bill on social services by social services centres. This is certainly a very important, very necessary bill. And it is good that this process over it is so consistent with the statements and direction of action for the integration of social services and the establishment of this new organisational unit. With regard to Mrs Drozd's speech, I would like to stress that there is absolutely no consultation on this issue. It's quite the opposite. We have the situation that this draft law submitted by the President was consulted within the National Development Council, was consulted within the Group for Affairs. The review of Local Government Law and absolutely responds to the needs of local government officials that have been reported here. All representative organizations of local self-government units, starting from the Rural Union through the Polish Towns Union, the Polish Towns Union, the Polish Metropolitan Union, the Union of Voivodships, to the Polish Districts Union, expressed their views in this respect and expressed their views positively. So you can't say there was no consultation. Moreover, as regards the consultation meetings on the assumptions for the draft act on social services centres - this is also the information prepared at the request of the Member - these were 24 meetings held between 19 February 2018 and 21 August 2018. As far as consultation meetings on the original draft law are concerned, this is another five meetings that took place in different places and with different actors. This is a very extensive list. Later, after the presentation of the bill submitted to the Sejm, during meetings, seminars and conferences at 17 such meetings in various locations in Poland: Szczecin, Poznań, Wrocław, Gliwice, Olsztyn, Sandomierz, Warsaw, Zielona Góra, Rzeszów, Lublin, Łomża, Poznań, Kraków, Lublin, the bill presented by Professor Marek Rymsza together with the employees of the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland was discussed. Presentations of the draft law were also held during the cycle of regional conferences, the prospects for rural residents. There were also many such meetings. In total, as far as all meetings were concerned, these meetings were over 60. We discussed the principles of the bill at first, took into account specific comments at the drafting stage of this bill, then the presentation of the original bill took place, and finally after the submission of this discussion in the Sejm it continued and will continue. The argument of lack of consultation as regards the social side is completely untenable. I was accompanied by the director of the Office of Law and Government, as well as advisors, Professor Marek Rymsha, meeting with the Board of the Polish Federation of Social Workers and Social Assistance. We are aware that for the purposes of implementing this law, it is necessary to involve those who are working under the social assistance system today, in social assistance centres, but also in other entities, on a daily basis. Here, on our part, is a full declaration of cooperation as to what you have asked, an evaluation of the practical application of this law, if it has the support of the High House, to keep up to date any comments relating to the operation of CUSs, those arising from the conversion of OPS, or those who will be appointed as completely new entities, alongside the functioning of OPS. There is an assumption, which is absolutely included in this law, that there will be no liquidation, because we are aware that if the CUS takes over the tasks of OPS, then OPS is incorporated into the structure of the social service centre. If this is the kind of situation that we're setting up a CUS next to OPS, then of course OPS is still functioning, you know the legal solutions. Here we have an indication that in order to create CUS, there must be new services, at least two categories of social services, which are carried out in a given case, so that we can talk about the conversion of OPS into CUS. If it is so that in a given case we are dealing with the functioning of a similar entity, then we are giving this legal possibility. Not only was it consulted with the local government, it is an initiative co-created by the local government. To be perfectly honest, on the basis of the practice of parliamentary work, I am really unable to identify many such laws, in which more than 60 meetings took place, at which everyone concerned could comment, make comments, requests, and already absolutely as far as cooperation with the local government party is concerned, here is the support of all organizations. There have also been debates organised in the context of regional debates of social policy centres or in various other formats. With regard to the Polish Federation of Social Workers and Social Assistance, whether it is educational and informational activities or the scope of the preparation of materials related to the application of these provisions later, such a declaration from our party directly at the meeting that took place yesterday fell. As far as cooperation with the county is concerned, the law provides for this. I'm sure you have that knowledge in your article. 3 (1) (a) 2 and 3 of the Act expressly state that the Centre can carry out social services which are the tasks of its own county and tasks in the field of government administration commissioned to the county after prior agreement between the municipality which established the centre and the county. In the case of a city on the rights of the county, the implementation by the social services centre does not require this agreement. It is natural, we know that then we have these competences of the municipality assigned also to the city on the rights of the county. There is a voluntary assumption in this law and it comes from the demand of the local government, so I will not agree whether I will allow myself to argue with the voices that we should be forced, mandatory. I do not reason in these categories, I reason in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, in accordance with the Local Government Act, in general according to the basic principle, which is called subsidiarity in European law, and in Polish law the principle of subsidiarity. We are aware that these actions, which are undertaken by local authorities in this area, require a legal framework. This legal framework is the act on social services being carried out by a social service centre, but the assumption is that this is the decision of a given local authority. Of course, we want to build such a positive, one can say, a rivalry between local governments in this area, that someone better these tasks, more willingly or more out with an offer, with a proposal, realizes on their territory, which is a good example, good practice, a good model for the next local authorities that are involved. This is the assumption, while imposing a mandatory task without a guarantee of funds would be absurd and would not absolutely serve the implementation of this project. Questions have been raised regarding support for this task. Firstly, we say, there are local governments, we give an example of Gdynia, an example of thousands or other examples that have already taken this kind of action from the bottom up and even asked to create a legal framework that regulates this sphere. The answer to this is the bill. However, as I say, this reflection took place, on the one hand, from local government practice, on the other hand, from an in-depth scientific reflection. Professor Marek Rymsza, a social policy specialist, who accompanied me, suggested this kind of action as well. This is also a scientific reflection going beyond the sphere of practice, so I think that this is a justification which you know and which I will no longer quote in full is convincing as to this step. This is, moreover, the answer to the mechanisms or actions that are being taken today across Europe. We can say that we recycle the best Western European standards, taking into account local conditions. There was a question about the financial perspective. Of course, we have conducted and conducted such discussions with the Ministry of Investment and Development and with the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. We have declarations by Minister Jerzy Kwieciński on the issue of pilotage after the entry into force of the Act, which would take place from next year. On the other hand, we have a new EU financial perspective. We have examined that, within the framework of this new future perspective, with regard to EU funds, it is also possible to use these mechanisms in support of CUSs. Finally, we are aware that the guidelines, which will be formulated at the level of the Ministry and which will also cover measures that are shared at regional level, can clearly indicate the possibility that we are going to provide here, are about EU support when the entity is already in legal circulation, i.e. when the CUS will be set up. A specific question has been asked by Mrs Agnieszka Progaj concerning cooperation at the level of district labour offices. Of course, as I said, the district labour office, part of the administrative unit at the district level - it is possible to cooperate on the basis of agreement with the county, but there is also voluntaryity here. We want these mechanisms not to be imposed. It is not that we know better what is best in the case of a given local government, but here the possibility of such cooperation and cooperation also between individuals at different levels of the structure of the local government functions absolutely. I am convinced that these solutions, which are included in the bill, are accurate, thoughtful, discussed, consulted with the local government and will serve the development of this sphere. We are aware that this is another, one could say, stage of reform in the wider social sphere. Here we are talking about social services, which are intended to be universal, which is not about the purely social element connected with the fact that someone is turning to a social assistance centre because of the difficult material situation and the procedure is used, there is interview and support in the form of benefits, but there may also be a very broadly understood situation - the catalogue is included in the act - when someone needs support, access to social services, which has to do with some problems that arise in the functioning, family environment, disability, age or health status, etc., etc. Thank you very much for the vote of support contained in the Members' statements. Thank you for your questions, too. I am calming down the consultation on this project. Of course, I am still asking the High House to support the draft act submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland on the implementation of social services by the Centre for Social Services. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u260	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs Ewa Drozd, as corrected, I understand? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u261	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! If you've heard exactly what I've been saying about this consultation... I was referring to the last meeting of the committee, because I think the Minister knows very well that while the bill is being proceded, the voice of the social side that will carry out this project is important at every stage. We didn't hear that voice at this committee meeting. I could ask the lady who's chairing the committee... Who on the social side was invited to this committee meeting? I've read the papers on all these consultations, there's a lot of comments. I wanted to hear the answers from the side that made the comments that were made and which were rejected, Minister. The Municipal Government Act clearly defines the tasks of the county and the commune and I here have no doubt, but if the counties turn to us, they say they have been omitted, [[♪ The bell ♪]] If no representative of the county takes part in the competition for the Director of the Centre and only the mayor, the mayor or the President participates, it is difficult to talk about equal treatment of these local authorities, Minister. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u262	Thank you very much, Member. The rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Joanna Borowiak, asks for a closing vote. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u263	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I would like to thank the Members working in the Committee on Social Policy and the Family very much for having a broad discussion on the project. During our work in committee, we showed that, although we differ in our views, we differed in our approach to social assistance solutions, we were able to unanimously give a positive opinion on the proposal, which is the President's legislative initiative. With regard to the comments made by the Members of the opposition who have fallen from the Parliamentary Speaker, I would like to assure you that the project has been and is being conducted in accordance with the legislative art. During the committee meeting, all those who were present, both parliamentarians and the social side, and those represented by different environments, were able to comment, comment, as well as their observations on the bill. [[When?]] I would also like to thank you for today's exchange of views on this important and innovative project. In view of the fact that amendments have been tabled for submission, let me express my hope of their smooth process during the work of the committee which is still waiting for us so that we can adopt a law serving the social assistance system, which also gives hope to today's declarations of Members. I also thank the Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u264	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u265	The main objective of the draft act on the implementation of social services by the social services centre, which is the legislative initiative of the President of the Republic of Poland, is to develop and integrate the system of social services at local level. Social phenomena in recent years, in particular the ageing of the population and the weakening of intergenerational ties within the family, have resulted in a steady, dynamic increase in demand for social services organised by public authorities. Social expectations for the introduction of new types of services are also growing. The solutions contained in the draft law meet these expectations, creating a legal framework to facilitate the integration and coordination of local authorities, using a new organisational unit - a social service centre, various social services that meet the needs of the local community. The PSL Club will support this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u266	Would it be appropriate to take into account the proposal to revise the project so that the creation of a new social service centre operator is linked to the obligation to complete the transformation after a certain period of time (e.g. 3 years) or reverse the transformation if the effect is unsatisfactory? The point is that there should not be a situation in which, alongside existing social assistance centres, a new entity will be created, and that will be the case. The aim is to integrate the full spectrum of social services into a single system. The question is also how the current PCPR tasks are to be integrated.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u267	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the draft act presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the implementation of social services by the Social Services Centre following work on this project in committee. This project sets out rules for the creation of new organisational units, so-called. social service centres designed to facilitate coordination of activities in the field of social services provided by the municipality or municipality concerned. It is important that the establishment of a centre can take place by itself or in agreement with other municipalities. It is also important that it is optional for the local government to take advantage of the possibility behind these regulations. The project is very extensive because it affects the complex issue of social services. However, this is, in my opinion, the first step needed to rebuild the current system. I support the ideas behind these solutions, according to which social services should be more accessible to citizens and better adapted to their needs, which should serve a more accurate diagnosis. In my view, this requires that, as the applicants point out, such institutions already function successfully in certain municipalities. They don't just have legal conditions. However, I am convinced that the detailed and at the same time flexible legal framework of this law will allow those who are already in operation, but also the newly created individuals to be fully responsible for local needs. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy has been very concerned about the effectiveness of the proposed solutions. I understand that this uncertainty can cause a large scope of the project. While they are satisfied with the provision of wide consultation of these regulations, both among experts and public consultations, I share one of the doubts raised during the committee's meeting as to the lack of the provisions presented to ensure the functioning of the social service centres, the lack of a system for assessing what is well-designed and what should be improved. I trust that this issue will still be considered in the course of further work. The Free and Solidarni Circle will vote in favour of further proceding this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u268	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to present a report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Ladies and gentlemen! The Commission for Energy and the Treasury submitted a report on the Government's draft law amending the Law on oil stocks, petroleum products and natural gas and the rules for dealing with situations of threat to the fuel security of the state and disturbances on the oil market and the Energy Law, print No 3646. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Marshal of the Sejm, decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that the Sejm should listen to five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in the discussion on this item. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Senate bill amending the Act on compulsory insurance, Insurance Fund and the Polish Office of Communication Insurers (prints no. 1608 and 3574). I ask Mr Jan Szewczak to present a report to the committee. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u269	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! Print No 1608, this is mainly the case, is the fulfilment of our obligation under the Senate resolution on the submission to the Sejm of a draft law on the amendment of the Act on compulsory insurance, Insurance Guarantee Fund and the Polish Office of Communication Insurers. Originally, this project was addressed by the Finance Commission to the subcommittee. We have worked on it in the subcommittee and already at the first stage of the work we have recognised that at least one of the stakeholders has a broad scope. This is not only about the victims, hard-experienced by fate, who were not sufficient for these guarantee sums, because they were exhausted, but also about those who were to pay these funds, i.e. the Insurance Guarantee Fund, also about the Polish Insurance Chamber. Insurance companies pointed out that these records were so vague, so wide that they could even cause some instability on the market and affect the complete deregulation of the whole system. So, working in the subcommittee, we faced a major challenge, but to make significant changes in the content of the project, taking into account people who were severely experienced in life as a result of car accidents, who were simply not enough to treat them first and foremost for normal functioning. Thanks to the great help of the employees of the Legal Office, we have prepared a draft law on amending the Act on Compulsory Insurance, Insurance Fund and the Polish Office of Communication Insurers. It is a very concise, short project, but this is because we cared about time. This work has lasted too long because of the dilemma of how to construct this bill. This law actually consists of two articles, but it is an essential fulfillment of those obligations which lie with us in this regard. I would like to say that later work in both the subcommittee and the committee did not raise much controversy even from opposition representatives. We felt that it might be possible to expand this law again, to rethink it, but it would significantly slow down the achievement of the end result, and we are aware of the end of the term of the Sejm. I must admit that as a result of the work of the subcommittee and the committee, everyone, i.e. both the witnessing party, the Insurance Guarantee Fund, as well as the representatives of the victims, we reached a full consensus. In fact, it can be said that this project is urgently needed and we hope that it will enter into force relatively quickly, because art. 2 provides for the entry into force of the Act 30 days after its publication. I would appeal to the representatives of the Sejm, clubs and circles so that we do not make any amendments, which would allow us to proceed swiftly on this project and enter into force of this law, which is so much expected by the affected environment, even before the end of the term of office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u270	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, Mr Jan Szewczak will present his position. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u271	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Since I am actually in two roles here, I do not want to repeat myself and extend - we are very late today - so I am maintaining all the statements made and the final appeal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u272	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform - The Civic Coalition will present the position to Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u273	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Speaking on behalf of the Civic Platform-Citizen Coalition Club, I would like to start by reminding you. Firstly, today's call for rapid proceding is at least inappropriate, because the project has been in place since 2017, when it was prepared by the Senate, and only in July did we really end up leaning on this project, and its shape, which we received in Parliament, is the result of the report of 2 July this year. It's about the case. The Supreme Court took account of the Ombudsman's cassation complaint and annulled the judgment of the Białystok Appeal Court, which deprived the disabled Mr Tomasz Piasecki of Białystok of his pension due to the fact that the guarantee funds had been exhausted. Agree that before 2003 the insurance guarantee amount was significantly lower and in many cases was exhausted, leaving the victims without any support. Thus, in 2016 the Ombudsman took the initiative to address this issue. At present, despite the systematic increase in the sum, the problem of the victims, in particular in communication cases, has not been resolved in the Ombudsman's view as a result of the exhaustion of the guarantee sum. In the Ombudsman's view, the aim should be to introduce complementary liability of the Insurance Guarantee Fund for damage to the person in situations where the guaranteed amount prevents the victim from fully satisfying his claims and to ensure that this is not an accidental solution, and this is what we have in the report, but a systemic solution. In the current form of the report of the Committee on Public Finance, we have only an emergency solution concerning a group of about 90 victims. Mr Szewczak has requested such a solution. It will be entitled to a claim for payment only of the pension to the Insurance Guarantee Fund. The claim for payment shall be payable for periods prior to the date of entry into force of the Act. We are talking about a border date before 1 January 2006. In our view, despite such a submission and consensus, i.e. the adoption by the committee, this does not solve the whole problem which has been presented because it does not solve the problem of previous claims of victims before the date of entry into force of the law, and thus the period before the date of entry into force of the Act as regards the earlier period of exhaustion of guarantee sums. That's one thing. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is a completely different solution than that put forward by the Senate, which concluded a consensus. All the senators voted in favour of the previous submission. We're narrowing down this senate project. As a club, we wouldn't want an emergency solution. We want to return to the solution that the High Senate has put forward, and I am making an appropriate amendment so that we can talk about it again. And the second point: Can this not happen in the future if the guarantee amounts are increased after 2003? But, of course, it can happen and the insurance system should ensure that there is no such thing as, as President Szewczak said, destabilization, deregulation of the system. The scheme itself should be prepared, at least to ensure that the payments made to the Insurance Guarantee Fund are at the outset sufficiently higher in order to be able in the future, in the event of similar difficult projects or phenomena, similar situations concerning pensions, to compensate in the event of the exhaustion of the guarantee sum, to secure the victims. This is meant to be a solution for insured persons, and institutions should simply adapt to this. Once again we make an amendment to the content such as the Senate submission, where there was consensus, so that we simply do not go back to it again or to [[♪ The bell ♪]] This project did not last as long as previously in extremely difficult situations. Marshal, I'd like to make some adjustments.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u274	Thank you very much. Thank you, Member. Mr Paweł Grabowski will speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u275	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 in relation to the draft law on the amendment of the Act on compulsory insurance, Insurance Fund and the Polish Office of Communication Insurers. Ladies and gentlemen! The project is so uncontroversial that it concerns taking into account the liability of the Insurance Guarantee Fund for those damages which cannot be covered by the insurer's fund any longer because the amount of insurance provided for by long-term contracts has either been exhausted or is close to exhaustion. In this respect, This is a non-controversial solution, but the fact is that it is controversial to narrow the scope of the provisions of this law, to narrow down the proposal or to submit a Senate proposal. I hope that, in this respect, since the amendment has already been tabled, we will be able to meet, talk quickly at the committee meeting and perhaps return to this original version of the original submission. However, bearing in mind also the fact that we are in a bit of a hurry today, I will not stall. The Kukiz Club will recommend to its Members the support of this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u276	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Genowefa Tokarska will speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u277	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland I will present my position practically against two projects, because in general the timetable we have an old title: on the amendment of the Act on compulsory insurance, Insurance Guarantee Fund and the Polish Office of Communication Insurers. This is the original printing number 1608. The subject of the draft law was the amendment of the law as in the title of 22 May 2003. The aim of the project was to remedy the situation of the exhaustion of the guarantee amounts of mandatory OC insurance, i.e. civil liability, motor vehicle owners for damage caused by the use of these vehicles and farmers for holding an agricultural holding. This was the case for people who had accidents in the 1990s. The project, the original one, the Senate, introduced a new article that imposed an obligation on the Insurance Guarantee Fund to satisfy claims for personal injury. The Act provided that the injured party's claim for damages to the person by the Fund would cover the period from the date of exhaustion of the guarantee sum, but not earlier than the date of entry into force of the Act, and that the Act would enter into force 30 days after the date of publication. The Senate bill received a positive opinion from the government, from the Supreme Bar Council, the President of the Attorney General. This opinion was positive on the part of the Supreme Court, but with such strong attention that the law cannot act backwards and that this action has no constitutional justification. This Senate project was addressed to the Permanent Sub-Committee on Financial Institutions. He returned after almost 2 years under the amended title as a new project called the Act on the Specific Powers of the Victims in the event of exhaustion of the guarantee sum established under the provisions in force before 1 January 2004, print No 3574. I am a little surprised by the proposal to rush, because this draft subcommittee, later on in committee, this new project has no real opinion either from the government or from the institutions obliged. There has been a strong narrowing of this original senate project. This is a completely different project. I have serious doubts that this is not too far-reaching simplification of the legislative path. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u278	Thank you very much. Members joined the questions. Would anyone else like to join the list? I can't see. So I'm closing the list. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. As the first Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u279	I have two questions for the government. Firstly, I would like to ask the Minister what was the opinion of the government in the Senate, because I do not believe that 100% of the Senators of Law and Justice and 100% other senators supported this project, at least the Senators of Law and Justice. So it must have been, I suppose, a positive opinion on the project he submitted to the Senate. Secondly, Minister, I would like to hear your opinion or the opinion of the Ministry, the Government, because in the case of this project there was a positive opinion of the President, why you today have a different opinion on the amendments tabled against the Senate, to the President. Thirdly, I would like the Minister to quote opinions or share his views on the draft of the last proposal so radically amending the Senate project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u280	Thank you very much. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u281	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have a brief question about the draft law on amending the Act on compulsory insurance, Insurance Guarantee Fund and the Polish Office of Communication Insurances. Ladies and gentlemen! What happened that after two years you're pulling the state out of the freezer, this freezer is probably a fridge, a draft bill? You bring him in after two years at the end of his term. Something's wrong. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u282	Thank you very much, sir. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u283	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are used in this House to the fact that you are pushing the laws you care about at an express pace. However, we have been waiting two years for this project. It is amazing that, just before the election, this project is being processed. First of all, it is worth noting that it does not take into account the assessment of the impact of payments by the Insurance Guarantee Fund. There are no precise calculations of how the proposed solutions will affect the financial situation of insurance undertakings and thus the insured themselves. What about those who lose their right to benefits under the insurance contract after the amendment has entered into force? Further legislative work should be carried out to protect them. It's a fact that deserves attention. [[♪ The bell ♪]] that the date of entry into force of the proposed law is far too short. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u284	Thank you very much, Member. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance, Minister Piotr Nowak, asked questions on behalf of the government. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u285	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The government's position on the project has been presented. It's positive. [[What about the Senate?]] On the other hand, as far as certain details are concerned, let me give you a piece of my opinion. In the opinion of the Council of Ministers, the adaptation to the new task of the Insurance Guarantee Fund to fulfil claims suffered in the event of exhaustion of the guarantee sum requires issues relating to the information obligations of insurance undertakings and the imposition of information obligations on the fund, the procedures for the submission of claims to the fund, which is currently carried out through any insurance undertaking carrying out an insurance activity, the clarification of the source of coverage of expenditure in the income of the fund, the consideration of the introduction of a transitional provision determining the relationship of the new entitlement of the injured party to the right to apply to the court to establish the legal relationship resulting from the insurance contract to the insurance undertaking pursuant to Article. 357 Civil Code and extension of the vacathio legis period in order to ensure an appropriate period of preparation of the fund for handling a new group of claims. In the opinion of the government, all these comments were consumed during the work of the committee, as Mr Szewczak said. We think that from our point of view, the government's opinion is also positive all the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u286	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Corrigendum.]] In corrigendum mode, right? I would like to invite you, Member. The corrigendum, I understand, as to what the Minister said.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u287	Dear Minister, You didn't understand my questions. First of all, a completely different presentation was in the Senate and the opinion on the Senate project was positive. So I am interested in a positive opinion. What happened between working on the Senate project and the government's opinion and working in the Sejm and the government's revised opinion? What were the changes when the State restricts and restricts the possibility of applying a solution related to the exhaustion of the guarantee amounts in the insurance fund?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u288	Thank you very much, Member. The rapporteur of the committee, Mr Jan Szewczak, also asks for the floor. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u289	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! Of course, it's always the easiest way to make it out of someone else's. You could have solved this problem, too. This case is not a new issue, these problems have arisen since the beginning of the 1990s. We were aware that we were making significant restrictions on the legislative provisions proposed by the Senate, but these were dangerous in our assessment, because they opened in an extremely risky way to say... The point is that we didn't count the exact costs there. [[So where was the government?]] Not much, of course we are aware that this is not a big group of people, but these 100 people are waiting for this. I did not accidentally ask and call for these amendments not to be tabled, because the Civic Platform amendment is that we are to return to the Senate project... After all, the result of the Senate project was the response of the environments, which were mainly intended to finance it: we will increase insurance premiums. Then it wouldn't be for those 100 people. This would apply to the entire Polish environment, Poles who have to be insured. Something's got to be done about it. It is not that here we are subject to some particular pressure from these large financial entities in the market. That's not true. We want to deal with these 100 people as soon as possible, while these amendments delay the process of rapid entry into force of this law. There are representatives of the affected communities in this room, and they are rightly exerting this pressure, and they are right to say that it has taken so long. On the other hand, we had to do it in a wise, balanced way, so as not to lead to a completely colossal expenditure, which at the moment cannot afford the Polish state. That is why we have indeed limited the scope of this project, but it is very important for the victims. They were asking very much for this to proceed as soon as possible on a legislative basis. Of course, we will have to work on this, and it will certainly be delayed by this proposal. I repeat, there was full agreement between the two groups: and those who were to finance it, and the victims, as far as this proposed solution is concerned. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u290	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u291	The mandatory liability insurance system imposed on motor vehicle owners is a potentially high burden for insurance companies, which reflects the constantly increasing prices of policies offered. What mechanisms are to prevent the proposed amendment from taking advantage of the proposed amendment to increase policy prices above the level caused by the real increase in costs for pensions paid?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u292	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the Government's draft law amending the Law on ports and marinas and certain other laws (prints 3582 and 3636). I ask Mr Sylwester Khrushch to submit a report to the committee. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u293	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, I have the honour to present a report to the committee on the Government's draft law amending the Law on ports and marinas and certain other laws. The first reading and examination of the draft law took place at the meeting of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on 16 July 2019. As part of the first reading, the Legislative Office of the Sejm adopted amendments of an editorial and legislative nature and a parliamentary amendment concerning the Law of 12 April 2018 on the Registration of Yachts and other vessels up to 24 m long. The aim of the project is to align the legal acts governing the organisation and operation of ports with the provisions of Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 February 2017 establishing a framework for the provision of port services and common rules on the financial transparency of ports. This Regulation entered into force on 24 March 2019 and covers the scope of its application of TEN-T ports, i.e. ports in Szczecin, Świnoujście, Police, Gdańsk and of course Gdynia. According to the project, the managing body of the port will be responsible for the organisation of port services. The proposed law shall also specify the authority competent to deal with complaints from seaport users arising from the application of the Regulation by the managing body of the sea port or port service provider to which it will be the Director of the Maritime Authority. In addition, the managing body of the port will be entitled to lay down minimum conditions for the provision of port services and to limit the number of port service providers, if any. The possibility of exercising a majority is also introduced, excluding transhipment and handling of passengers, port services by the managing body of the port. The draft law also extends the competence of the maritime administration, the Minister responsible for maritime affairs, in the area of control over the marketing of real estate located at seaports. Notwithstanding this, amendments are made to the Law on Ports and Seaports in order to improve the operation of seaports. The amendments strengthen, in particular, the competence of port management to coordinate the use of port infrastructure, as well as the management of small municipal seaports for which the managing body will be able to become directly a municipality without the need to appoint a separate port management body. The Act also introduces a number of minor amendments to other legal acts, including: in the Real Estate Management Act, the Land Planning and Development Act, so-called. road specialization and law on maritime areas of the Republic of Poland and maritime administration. Particular attention should be paid to the amendments to the Public Roads Act allowing for the inclusion of roads to TEN-T ports in the category of national roads and ensuring that these roads are financed from budgetary resources, which is the responsibility of the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways. At the first reading of the project, an amendment was tabled concerning the Law of 12 April 2018 on the Registration of Yachts and other vessels up to 24 m long. The main objective of the amendment is to waive the obligation to place units covered by the Control Marking Act on the hull. In addition, it is proposed to exclude from the registration of yachts and vessels used for amateur fishing, the length of which does not exceed 7,5 m or whose power of mechanical propulsion does not exceed 15 kW. A transitional period will also be extended for sailing yachts operated in inland waters which have not yet been subject to registration and for all yachts not yet subject to technical inspection. It is envisaged to postpone the entry into force of the provisions of the Act by 7 months. This period will allow the registration authorities to properly prepare for handling applications for registration. These changes will reduce the cost of boat registration and thus contribute to the development of sailing and activities operating in smaller ports and marinas. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As rapporteur on behalf of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, I recommend the adoption of this draft law amending the Law on ports and marinas and certain other laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u294	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented by Mrs Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u295	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I have the honour to present a position towards the Government's draft law amending the Law on Ports and Seaports and some other laws, print No 3582. The main objective of the project submitted by the government is to align the legislation governing the organisation and operation of ports with the provisions of the European Parliament Regulation of 15 February 2017 establishing a framework for the provision of port services and common rules on the financial transparency of ports which entered into force on 24 March 2019. The port regulation is applied explicitly, but it is necessary to adapt the existing national rules to the framework set out in its rules. The provisions of the port regulation apply to ports located in the TEN-T network, i.e. in the case of Poland to ports: Gdańsk, Gdynia, Szczecin, Świnoujście and Police. In order to bring the provisions of the Ports and Seaports Act into line with the provisions of the Regulation, amendments are introduced, inter alia. to enable the port manager to introduce minimum conditions for the provision of port services and to reduce the number of port service providers, if any. In addition, the revised rules allow port services to be carried out independently by the managing body of the port, but subject to the application of the restrictions laid down in the port regulation and excluding transhipment and handling of passengers. The provisions of the Act also define the Director of the Maritime Authority as the authority competent to deal with complaints arising from incorrect application of the provisions of the Regulation. The maximum limits for port charges will also be lifted. Notwithstanding the adaptation of the provisions of the Act to EU legislation, the proposed Act strengthens the competence of the Minister responsible for maritime affairs in the field of real estate trading located in the port area in order to maintain port functions on these properties. It clarifies the management of municipal seaports without a separate management body. The draft law also amends a number of laws aimed at improving the operation of seaports. Among the most important are the amendment of the Public Road Act introducing the possibility for GDDKiA to finance access routes to the TEN-T core network ports by including them in the category of national roads providing access to seaports. Changes are also made to the Real Estate Management Act, which includes port investments in public-purpose investments, amendments to the Land Planning and Land Planning Act which make it compulsory to agree with the Port Management Board on local land-use plans and decisions on construction conditions, amendments to the Law on specific rules for preparing the implementation of public roads investments by consulting the Port Management Board of the application for a decision to authorise road investments and amendments to the Law on Maritime Areas of the Republic of Poland and the Maritime Administration extending periods of permits for the construction of artificial islands, constructions and equipment. This issue is of fundamental importance for the development of Polish wind energy. A parliamentary amendment was also tabled, and I submitted it personally, concerning the Act of 12 April 2018 on registration of yachts and other vessels up to 24 m long. It aims primarily to abandon the introduction of a check mark for yachts and other vessels up to 24 m long. The amendments covered by the amendment include signals from shipowners and owners of yachts and meet social expectations. They will not adversely affect the safety of vessels. They were welcomed by the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping. Importantly, the proposed amendment will contribute by facilitating sailing to the development of small ports and seaports, thus contributing to the assumption of a draft law presented by the government. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I ask the High House to accept this proposal in the wording proposed by the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation and to take account of the Parliamentary amendment tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u296	Thank you very much, Member. On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, Mr Tadeusz Azievicz will present his position. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u297	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the draft law amending the Law on ports and marinas and on certain other laws. High Seym! I appreciate the importance of this project because it concerns the extremely important operators of ports and seaports for our economy. I remind you that Polish seaports in 2018 overloaded over 100 million tons of cargo, achieving the best result in history. Record handling is among others. the effect of high economic prosperity and earlier investments in port infrastructure implemented on the basis of thoughtful strategies, well suited to the needs of the market. It is also worth noting the massive - 200% in 2 years - increase in coal imports while significantly decreasing domestic extraction. If I am to seek the influence of the PiS governments on the economic success of our ports, we will probably find it in this area. It is clear that the effects of investment in port infrastructure appear after a certain period of time. When we look from this perspective, we are concerned that the dynamics of investment in the Gdynia port in the last 3 years have fallen significantly, and its management clearly does not cope with the construction of an extremely important port for the future. And money is not a problem here, because the previous management has left large resources on the port accounts for the rapid implementation of large projects. Definitely more serious reasons for concern are the errors in the structure of the government which significantly reduce the quality of management of the infrastructure key for our economy. Let me remind you that as a result so-called. two separate resorts are now managed by good changes in seaports and fundamentals for their development on land roads. This is happening at a time when the world is moving towards intermodal transport, integrating its various branches. That's what I've been explaining for three years, including. in the context of the construction of the red road, absolutely necessary for the development of the Gdynia port of the route connecting the port with the Tricity ring road. I would like to remind you that this initiative came at the end of the last term and was to continue in the new term - such assurances were made immediately after the elections by the then Deputy Minister Kazimierz Smolinski. As is the case in politics, the Deputy Minister has been restructured quite quickly, while the successors have been far removed from this project by blaming President Gdynia, although it is well known that this challenge exceeds the possibilities of the Gdynia government and it is absolutely necessary to involve funds from the state budget. The government material prepared for the Maritime Affairs Committee in March this year was clearly negative, which triggered a number of protests by both self-government and opposition politicians, particularly loud during the last campaign to the European Parliament. And here we have a draft law a few months before the elections, generally adapting the Ports and Seaports Act to the EU regulation, which contains an extremely important provision allowing it to be included in the category of national roads and the involvement of the state budget. This is a very necessary record and I cannot understand why our ports had to wait almost four years for it to be submitted, although the Law on ports and marinas was amended at the beginning of this term. I would like to remind you that the influence of local authorities on port management was weakened at the time and that the requirements necessary to sit on the supervisory boards of port-based companies were reduced. The face of this change was Marcin Horała. The question asked is justified, because it concerns the actual intentions of the authors of the submission. After all, nothing important in this law will happen to the parliamentary elections except for the adoption of the bill, although the shovels are probably already being prepared for ceremonial stabbing into the ground, the spirit of the rusty keel is still among us. Despite bad experiences, I want to believe that this is not just an element of the electoral performance and there is the will to really strengthen Polish ports. Of course, we will support this change and if today's opposition takes responsibility for Poland after the elections, we will build a red road in Gdynia as soon as possible. High Izbo! Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition will vote in favour of the report by the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the draft law [[♪ The bell ♪]] amending the Law on ports and marinas and certain other laws. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u298	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Andrzej Kobylarz will speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. There isn't. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland will address Mr Kazimierz Kotowski. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u299	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today we are debating a government bill amending the Ports and Seaports Act in print 3582 and 3636. The rapporteur, as well as my honourable speakers, put forward the practical main points contained in this government proposal. And it is good that the project adapts Polish law to the EU regulation of 2017. It is good that we will do what is really possible, I am convinced that Polish ports, which last years can count as very successful, will help to prepare or continue the development of infrastructure, which, prepared in previous years, has enabled last year, this year, and I think that in future such good results. We are pleased that for this reason the Treasury has achieved significant influences calculated in billions of PLN, because in the justification we can read that it is 40.6 billion PLN compared to 17 million from 2015. I'm not hiding that we're very happy about this. We are convinced that these provisions, these regulations will help us to maintain the pace of construction of infrastructure that will safeguard the possibility of development in this area. I am referring here to port infrastructure and around-port infrastructure, i.e. transport infrastructure as road and rail infrastructure. I think we are going in the right direction, if all these assumptions are implemented. It is only a pity, perhaps looking at the future, that in the amendment that has already been carried out in this term, we have slightly reduced the role of local governments, because it must be seen that self-government is the natural partner of government administration in solving problems and tasks. And for now, whether we like it or not, the land is owned by the local government. Therefore, I think that these issues should be analysed and not overlooked by the hosts, city presidents or city councils, districts or voivodships in planning and considering certain tasks. It is certainly good that there will be an opportunity within the TNT network to finance or take over certain tasks by the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways in order to communicate the external road port in Gdynia. This is a very important issue and a very important task. I just have some doubt here. I think the Minister will want to sort this out, lighten it up for me. We're reading about the possibility of taking over. I think there's a dot here that it's not such a possibility that it doesn't involve taking over some of the property on which these roads are located. I believe that the other provisions are acceptable and we will be involved in further work with a view to finalising this act at this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u300	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, on behalf of the Freedom and Solidarni Posel Wheel. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u301	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position towards the Government's draft law amending the Law on Ports and Seaports and some other laws. This project aims to implement the provisions of Regulation 2017/352 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 February 2017 establishing a framework for the provision of port services and common rules on the financial transparency of ports into Polish legislation. It is very important of the proposed amendments to allow the possibility of financing port access infrastructure from other sources than before. Currently, maritime access infrastructure is built and maintained by the directors of maritime offices from the State budget and made available to all users free of charge. Where the appropriations foreseen for this purpose in the budget are insufficient, entities in whose interest it is to set up and maintain such infrastructure, e.g. Port authorities or local authorities will be able to finance such investments in accordance with the proposed regulations. I am convinced that this is a change in line with the expectations of the environment concerned. Although, as I have noted, opinions on this project are positive, some of its records may raise doubts. I am pleased that the majority has been discussed and disbanded during the work on the consultation project. This demonstrates the high level of this work, the ability to cooperate and listen to the voices of people who deal directly with this matter on a daily basis. One of the doubts raised concerned the deletion of maximum, today strictly defined levels of individual port charges. However, as the applicants point out, port charging tariffs currently contain lower charges than the maximum charges indicated in the Ports Act, as too high charges would result in a decrease in the competitiveness of Polish ports. I have no doubt that this bill will strengthen the position of Polish ports on the international stage. I am pleased that its importance is also perceived by Members of the total opposition. The Free and Solidarni Circle supports this amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u302	Thank you very much, Member. One person came to the questions. I'm closing the list. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. And please, I invite you, Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u303	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much. I have one question that I have turned into a question: What were the conditions behind giving additional technical research to LNG bunkering points to Technical Transport Control rather than the Technical Supervision Authority? Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u304	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Will the Minister be willing to refer? The government represents the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping, Minister Anna Moscow. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u305	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer the question, it was the result of a public consultation. It also seems naturally well located because it is just like all other services performed in the port. That's the one main motivation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u306	Thank you very much. Would the rapporteur like to see... Thank you. I therefore close the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u307	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club Kukiz'15, I have the honour to present a position regarding the Act amending the Law on Ports and Seaports and some other laws, print No. 3582. The draft concerns the adaptation of national provisions to Regulation (EU) 2017/352 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 February 2017 establishing a framework for the provision of port services and common rules on the financial transparency of ports. In view of the need to bring national legislation into line with the abovementioned provisions. a regulation is necessary to intervene at the level of the Act, which will concern ports in Gdynia, Gdańsk, Szczecin - Świnoujście and Police. The proposed regulation shall specify the authority competent to deal with complaints from port users by the managing body of the port or port service provider to which the Director of the Maritime Office will be. In addition, in order to bring national provisions into line with Regulation (EU) 2017/352 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 February 2017, the draft provides for amendments to the following laws: 1) the maritime areas of the Republic of Poland and the maritime administration - the changes resulting from the amendment of the Law on ports and marinas, in particular as regards the competence of the directors of maritime offices; 2) planning and spatial planning; 3) on public roads; 4) with specific rules for the preparation and implementation of public road investments; 5. on real estate management; 6. port reception facilities and cargo residues from ships; 7. electromobility and alternative fuels; 8. the registration of yachts and other vessels; 9) about public documents. The introduction of EU regulation will result in: - ensuring that complaints are dealt with by the Maritime Authority in Gdynia and the Maritime Authority in Szczecin. Changes in small port management shit; - the need to adapt the marina organisation to the rules laid down in the proposed law, in particular in the area of maritime real estate management; - to refrain from setting a maximum limit on port charges at the level of the Act, which will result in the possibility of setting them at a higher level than at present; - extending the scope of legal activities requiring the Minister's approval in the field of real estate management in ports, resulting in an increase in the burden of the tasks of the Minister of Office; - the possibility to lodge a complaint with the competent Director of the Maritime Authority concerning the infringement of Regulation No 2017/352. In our view, the introduction of this bill will improve the functioning of Polish ports and marinas, including services provided in this field, which will strengthen their position in the international market, especially in the Baltic Sea basin. Therefore, the Kukiz Parliamentary Club15 supports this regulation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u308	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report from the Commission for Energy and Treasury on the Government bill on the system of compensation for energy-intensive sectors and sub-sectors (prints 3572 and 3595). I would very much like to ask Mr Maciej Małecki to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u309	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission for Energy and Treasury recommends this bill and encourages the High House to adopt the bill. The objective is one: to keep energy prices in check, to ensure good conditions of competition for Polish companies, especially energy-intensive companies. This law closes the system of maintaining electricity prices in Poland. I would like to remind you that at previous meetings of the Sejm we worked to protect other consumers of electricity prices in Poland from a drastic increase in electricity prices. On the other hand, this law covers energy-intensive companies in such a way that they can compete effectively on the market and that electricity costs are not too heavy for them. One amendment was tabled during the committee's work. The Commission recommends that the High House adopt this draft law positively. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u310	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Ewa Malik will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u311	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present an opinion on the report of the Committee on Economics and Development on the Government bill on the system of compensation for energy-intensive sectors and sub-sectors, parliamentary prints No. 3572 and 3595. I would like to remind you that the draft law introduces rules that will compensate about 300 companies in the energy-intensive sector. These compensations constitute public aid, but due to the EU's climate and energy policy, which strikes, as we know, the profitability of companies, and may result in a decrease in their competitiveness, their allocation is highly justified. The compensation for CO2 shall be direct cash payments which may be paid in the year in which the additional costs associated with the transfer of emission allowances to electricity prices or the following year have been incurred. It is also possible to grant compensation for increasing CO2 emission allowances with retroactive effect, covering a given period before the entry into force of the laws implementing them, and ex ante, i.e. even before costs are incurred, i.e. based on forecast values. Under the conditions of operation of Polish companies, the impact of the price of allowances on the price of electricity, as we know, is extremely serious, therefore the solutions contained in this Act are very deliberate and contribute significantly to solving the problem of falling competitiveness and profitability of companies related to the energy-intensive industry. Ladies and gentlemen! During the first reading in the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, the project was discussed in detail. During the process of the bill, proposals were made to supplement the text of the draft from print No 3572, and therefore Parliamentary Club Law and Justice makes a set of six amendments of substance and editorial nature. There you go. [[Applause]] The changes adopted by the government are as deliberate as possible, favour the interests of Polish energy-intensive economic operators and meet their expectations in terms of improving profitability and competitiveness. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the provisions of the proposed law, along with amendments, and recommends that they be adopted in the Polish Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u312	Thank you very much, Member. On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak will present his position. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u313	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Civic Platform-Citizen Coalition club vis-à-vis Draft Print Act 3572 on the system of compensation for energy-intensive sectors and sub-sectors. Energy-intensive companies provide 404 thousand. jobs, while in cooperative companies - 686 thousand. These companies account for 11% gross domestic product and consume 20% electricity. This sensitive industry is the responsibility of the government, which should prepare an aid bill at the beginning of the term of office as a continuation of the activities of the PO government. The government's energy policy created by the Ministry of Energy directs us to a conflict course with efficiency, competitiveness, cheap energy. Such a policy is a threat to the future and cost-effectiveness of the energy-intensive industry, but also to the economy as a whole. In the meantime, energy-intensive companies need help because energy prices are too high. The ArcelorMittal plant in Krakow is halting the work of the blast furnace because, as the President states, it has lost its competitiveness due to rising prices of CO2 emission allowances and electricity. In support of the print project No 3572, the President of the Council of Ministers issues a devastating autodiagnosis of the energy market in Poland, stating that our economy is doomed to increasingly expensive energy, which is more expensive than energy in Germany than in 2018 by 20%, by 23% more expensive than in the Czech Republic, 18% more expensive than electricity in Slovakia, more expensive by 5% than in Romania. This is the effect of nearly 4 years of the rule of law and justice in the field of energy. The symbol of this diagnosis is the construction of a coal power plant in Ostrołęka, which will be the most modern energy museum producing the most expensive electricity in the European Union. It is stated in the explanatory memorandum that in Polish conditions the impact of emission rights prices on the price of electricity is extremely high. The Polish market is isolated from neighbouring markets and therefore there is no competitive pressure on energy prices. The high impact of rights prices on wholesale prices is the result of the electricity generation structure in Poland. This structure is based on coal primacy and only 13.7% energy comes from RES. This means a steady increase in electricity costs due to the need to pay for too much CO2 and greenhouse gas emissions. In this way, the government critically evaluates its actions for the competitiveness of Polish energy, as it will have to buy more and more expensive powers, while e.g. in Germany, due to the increasing share of renewable energy, prices will decrease. Electricity in Poland will be more expensive and energy in RES countries will be cheaper. Conclusion: in the near future, the key task will be to help energy-intensive companies by introducing a law to compensate for the rise in the price of allowances, but in addition - and this is no longer mentioned in the explanatory memorandum of the Act - it is necessary to change the energy strategy in such a way that we produce cheap energy, as the Civic Coalition in the six Schetins says, and gradually move away from coal in the energy industry and significantly increase the share of RES in the energy mix. The draft law was drawn up at the last moment of the ETS Directive in its form until 2020 and was created due to a drastic increase in the price of allowances: from EUR 5 to EUR 26. The provisions of the Act provide for indirect cost compensation to be granted in such a way that final customers bear up to 44% of the costs allowances prices, although electricity will still be lower in Germany in this case. The financial resources for the payment of compensation for the calendar year concerned shall amount to not more than 25% revenues from the sale of emission allowances by auction. The Act establishes the Mid-Emission Cost Compensation Fund. With the rise in emission allowances prices, the compensation value will increase in 2020 and 2021, a total of PLN 890 million is foreseen. But the question is, how long can you base? on public aid in this formula and whether the European Union will accept this solution after 2020. There is also a question about other price-setting components in energy, which are often subject to political action. [[♪ The bell ♪]] However, the Civic Platform Club - the Civic Coalition will support the project because of the risk that energy-intensive companies will lose their viability. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u314	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski will speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u315	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Kukiz Club15 supports the work on this project. We will actively participate in them, because we are talking about a very important law. It is a pity that only such a form of support it concerns, not a solution to the systemic problem. Because when we talk about the Polish industry, about workplaces, about energy security, we cannot have a political discussion, but it should be a substantive discussion without any doubt. Unfortunately, today we have proof on the occasion of this law that the lack of a coherent position in this House of political forces on energy matters, energy security causes us to act on an ad hoc basis rather than on a systemic basis, acting on a random basis, on the basis of the effect of holy peace. The fact that the prices of CO2 emissions will go up, we know and we know, and we also know that they will get higher. There's no surprise here. Everyone knew that, all the governments were aware of that. What happened in this room that lacked determination and willingness to work together, a white-red team, not only to pay off, but to solve this problem? The question is whether energy intensity is an important part of industry. Today, we can technologically reduce this energy intensity. That's something you can work on. This is what should be worked on when it comes to innovation. The money for innovation for EU funds is very large. The question is how much these EU funds for innovation are going in this direction, how much we are looking for solutions, and how much money we are putting in. The fact that we're gonna have to pay extra, we already know. We also know that more money will be needed. And the question is how much longer. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what we have in many areas: in the ZUS, in the health care department. The question is, if we don't meet the wall at some point. This wall will be very painful. not only for political forces, but for the whole Polish country. Hence my hot appeal to all political forces. When it comes to energy security, Kukiz15 says: let us speak with one voice, let us act together. Let us not fascinate, but let us make something that is worthy of the Polish state, the interests of companies and the energy industry, which will be stable for the Polish economy, which will give us true security and comfort for our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u316	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u317	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Speaking on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland, I would like to start by saying that we will support this project because it is difficult for the energy-intensive industry, which consumes the most energy, to be punished, to lose its competitiveness towards other countries, other companies, other sectors. That is why we need to support this. As I read in the explanatory memorandum, the fault of the European Union is that we have such high electricity prices. Energy prices in the internal market are already among the highest in Europe. This is due to the policy of the European Union and rising emission price allowances. The predecessor has already said that emissions prices are rising, they are going to rise, they are going to rise even more. It's inevitable. We can't presume that prices are rising. Nothing has been done in this area for four years. If it hadn't been for the fall elections, everyone would have felt it. At the moment it is very beautifully buffered: we will help entrepreneurs, we have given individual compensation, we raise local governments. Recently, President Rzeszów has spoken widely about 71 percent increase in electricity prices next year. The question is where is the end, where is the limit. Do we have an idea right now about what happened after the election? It doesn't seem like an idea. Will the energy-intensive industry, because it is only a temporary solution to the problem, not have any more problems? Because energy prices, you can't hide them, they're gonna grow. I remember an extraordinary meeting of the Sejm because it was extraordinary. A miracle was supposed to happen. Energy prices will not increase - that was the password. [[Voice from the room: It was, it was.]] Prime Minister Morawiecki spoke: there will be no increase in electricity prices. Are they finally here or aren't they? They are, even for industry. We help, we have to, but the rise in energy prices is. Let's tell each other the truth. It's not about criticizing right now. Do we have a further vision of how to solve this problem? Because on the basis of rebellion in the European Union, we say: you will not tell us to stop smoking with coal, to produce electricity from coal. We say we're gonna burn this coal for another 200 years, it's gonna be okay, we're gonna be okay. On the basis of rebellion and demonstration of certain things, we will not have an effect, because these energy price problems will increase. That's something to understand. Those who do not understand will be defeated in the nearest or nearest time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u318	Thank you very much, sir. The question was asked by five parliamentarians. I'm closing the list. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. Please, Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, is the first to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u319	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The fact that prices are rising, we can all see. From this tribune, we've been saying it like a mantra for at least a few months, for six months. Special meetings of the Sejm were convened on this subject. It was supposed to be quick, urgent. We were supposed to stop this growth, but it turns out we need a special bill. Today we have another bill. Minister! I wanted to ask you about an important mining industry that consumes a lot of energy. Such Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, the largest producer of coke in the European Union, which can be said to be a base for steel production, consumes 1,5 TWh per year, which represents the cost of over PLN 400 million. There is also KGHM Polska Miedź, the largest consumer of electricity in Poland, where we are talking about 2 TWh and costs of almost 700 million PLN. Will these companies be able to benefit from this law? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will any of these companies be able to benefit from the current law and this support system that we are talking about today? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u320	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u321	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! From the justification for this project emerges, let me use this word, a surreal picture of the energy policy framework in the European Union. On the one hand, the introduction of an emission allowance scheme shows a lack of predictability which is difficult for entrepreneurs to accept, which indicates indirectly, inter alia. that it is subject to speculative action. On the other hand, compensation is used in the most developed, energy-intensive economy in the European Union, the German economy. Therefore - and this is my question - is such a situation simply an image of energy neocolonialism, other actions are planned than the attempt to use the same tools in Poland? Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u322	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Platform... Oh, no, I'm sorry. Mr Marek Owa, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u323	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to remind you that on 29 June 2015, the government adopted a resolution adopting a programme for Śląsk and Małopolska in Western Silesia 2.0, in which it committed itself to improving the competitive conditions for the energy-intensive industry. Then, in accordance with the directive - what you said before me is completely wrong, because in the European Union there are rules under which energy-intensive companies can be exempted from a number of costs included in electricity costs - the government has committed itself to creating such conditions to improve the functioning of these companies. One element of this programme was the relief of the discharge of resources for renewable energy sources, the other was the exemption from excise duty. Why haven't you done anything for four years, even though you are bound by the continuity of power? Why have you led to the fact that the price of energy in Poland is more than 20% higher than in Germany? Why did you lead to this? [[♪ The bell ♪]] that many energy-intensive companies have stood on the brink of continuing to function only by abandoning the rule of law and justice? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u324	Thank you, sir. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u325	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I repeat Mr Owl's question: Why is it so late? I would like to remind you that almost four years ago, at one of the first meetings of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, we discussed the situation in the steel industry and this was one of the main demands of the industry. It is simply necessary to introduce amenities related to energy-intensive production. You really didn't do anything. We are in such a situation right now that through these omissions the raw material part will be closed in the ArcelorMittal Hut in Cracow, 1.5 thousands. people will lose their jobs and we will practically 100% addicted to imports of steel from other countries. It's just an unheard of thing, considering we've got this kind of steel base. Minister! Here's the question. Given that you have prepared this bill because of the election year, you are not planning at the moment, but are there any further energy increases expected in the near future, or have you prepared this bill just in case the energy-intensive industry doesn't protest too much? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u326	Thank you very much, sir. And the last question will be asked by Mrs Ewa Malik, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u327	Mrs. Marshal! I have a question for the Minister. Energy-intensive companies without government state aid cannot bear the full cost of increasing the cost of the so-called. black energy and will be in an extremely difficult situation. I would therefore like to ask: What number of energy-intensive companies in Poland today is at risk of losing their profitability due to these factors and are all these companies covered by the Act? That's the question. And now I'd like to correct. Today, I was giving an opinion to the Parliamentary Club on Law and Justice regarding parliamentary printing, which came out of work, of course, of the Committee on Energy and the Treasury, not as I said, the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development. The mistake was because I'm a member of both of these committees. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u328	Thank you very much, Member. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The Government represents Minister Marcin Ociepa, State Secretary at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology. You're welcome, Minister, to refer to the questions you have asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u329	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much, Members, for all your questions. Of course, throughout the European Union, we are facing a very specific challenge. The whole energy-intensive industry... Although the opposition state is trying to blame all the plagues of Egypt on our government, the industry is much more precisely, than political divisions, professionally diagnoses the problem. Indeed, this is in some sense the focus of the decision on emissions-related charges, but it also has to do with what we are currently seeing in the world, what some - perhaps to heighten - call a trade war and what we feel directly in Europe. We feel increased imports of various types of raw materials, including those we are talking about, into the European Union. This makes our players' competitiveness weak, and we must, of course, face it. Ladies and gentlemen! High Seym! It is not true that we are only making these efforts now. Last year, the Economic Committee of the Council of Ministers adopted a package of various types of solutions, including statutory solutions, for smaller industrial centres. I would like to say that 3/4 of this package has already been implemented. It is not true that this is only the first instrument, that we are only beginning now. Let me remind you that until now, first of all, we have reduced the excise duty for the industry we are talking about, we have introduced a reduction in the cogeneration fee, we have reduced 95% of the so-called. a transitional fee, and we are currently in a difficult technical dialogue, political dialogue with the European Commission on the relief of the power charge. Let us not abandon this dialogue. We are happy, we believe that the European Commission will allow it. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, if we have agreed to join the European Union, we also have the same rules as other countries. Here is the question of Members or miners, mining, e.g. The refineries will be able to benefit from this. Dear Member, they will not be able to be, because the aid is directed not so much to industry, because it is not thinking industries as to specific installations, and these are in turn mentioned in the guidelines of the European Commission. So to answer simply: the law is dedicated to all those who can be dedicated on the basis of the guidelines of the European Commission. We have embraced all those we could embrace in order to remain in line with the European Commission's guidelines. The challenge is, of course, long-term, we'll agree here, we'll have to multiply these kinds of tools - I've already mentioned that. And for the future, there are two ways to go: firstly, this is compensation, and secondly, this is the change of energy mix in Poland. This is something we're facing, and this challenge we're going to want to do. We strongly encourage all political forces to support the government to support it, because, as far as everything we are doing, about what I have mentioned, about these five actors, the five concrete legislative actions I have mentioned here, these are actions that have been prepared, consulted with industry, energy-intensive industries, and we will continue to implement them in line with those commitments that we have made to Polish entrepreneurs, towards the whole sector. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u330	Thank you very much, Minister. The rapporteur of the committee, Mr Maciej Małecki, also asked for the floor. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u331	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a very important act and I therefore very strongly call for us to approach this project over political divisions. 300 energy-intensive companies, but in these companies there are many thousands of our compatriots who have a job there, as well as a lot of jobs around them, which are created by the fact that these companies are working. That's between 5 and 7 jobs around such companies. Therefore, the law, through which we meet the needs of the energy-intensive industry in Poland, fails - once again I will stress - to ensure good conditions for competition and effective competition with other companies in these sectors. This is, just like the previous law, the protection of wallets of Polish families, those workers who have employment there, and those who operate around these energy-intensive enterprises. I therefore call once again, on behalf of the Commission for Energy and the Treasury, for an approach to this beyond divisions and for a vote in favour of this draft law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u332	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u333	Art. 11 provides that the President of the Energy Regulatory Office shall, by 30 September of the calendar year concerned, issue a decision granting or refusing compensation for the previous calendar year. In view of the fact that this project is justified to help energy-intensive entrepreneurs whose profitability and competitiveness are seriously threatened by the rise in electricity prices caused by the EU's climate and energy policy, I would like to ask whether the indication of 30 September as the final date for the decision will not be a relatively late date.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u334	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Commission for Energy and the Treasury in order to present a report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. High Izbo! After consulting the Convention of Seniors, Marshals of the Sejm decided to delete from the agenda the current meeting of paragraph 12: Report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Penal Code, Prints No. 386, 3386-A and 3613. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law on accessibility for people with special needs (prints 3579 and 3644). I would like to ask Mr Jerzy Polak to present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u335	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the great honour to submit a report to the Committee on Infrastructure on the Government's draft Act on Accessibility to Persons with Special Needs, Prints 3579 and 3644. I would like to focus in this report on recalling some of the key elements governing accessibility for people with special needs, because this project is a completely new project, it is a system project, it is a comprehensive project, for the first time a project defining and needs, and solutions for the design and implementation of many projects serving them. I would like to point out that the solutions provided for in the bill are primarily intended to improve the living conditions of citizens with particular needs, who are exposed to marginalisation, discrimination, among others. due to disability or reduced level of fitness due to age or disease. The project sets out measures to ensure architectural accessibility, digital accessibility and information and communication accessibility for people with special needs throughout the public sphere and where public funds are being used. This project is an important step towards building a new image of public entities. The law is what I would also like to stress - and to pay my respects here to the Ministry of Investment and Development - a key element of the Government's Accessibility Programme+, which the Council of Ministers adopted in July 2018, and the solutions provided for in the draft implement the provisions set out in the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities which oblige such persons on an equal footing with other citizens to have independent access to public services. The public sector will be obliged, in accordance with a project subject to the procedure in Parliament, to ensure at least minimum availability in this respect, and the public body will ensure such availability by applying universal design of new solutions or reasonable improvements to the removal of existing barriers. Minimum requirements in this respect will cover architectural, digital and information and communication accessibility. In an individual case, a public entity, if it is unable, in particular for technical or legal reasons, to provide such availability, will have to provide alternative access, in particular by providing a person with specific needs for support of another person, e.g. I'm an assistant. And here I would like to cite an example that illustrates the work on this project. This project was probably consulted with more than 67 social organisations to which the government addressed it. There were more than 700 comments from stakeholders to whom the project was addressed in the course of its work. For example, one of the representatives of the cooperating associations, subject to the procession, participated in this together with a dog guide named Perper. So that is exactly what we have seen as Members who have so far been involved in the process of this document. The Minister for Regional Development will coordinate the work on accessibility and the Minister responsible for regional development will be set up and the Accessibility Council will function as a very important consultative body. According to the project, the Accessibility Fund will be set up. This fund will be a source of funding for accessibility measures for residents. It will be set up on the basis of the Act and will aim at providing financial support for the adaptation of public buildings and multi-family housing to the needs of people with special needs. The proposal also provides, which I would like to highlight very much, sanctions for lack of accessibility, and I would like to point out that this is a very expectation by the environment of people with disabilities, because the inefficiencies of existing solutions and regulations are largely due today to the lack of consequences of non-compliance. The Act is to enter into force 14 days after the date of its publication in the Official Journal of the Laws, but meeting the expectations of the public sector and taking into account the need to provide an adequate time to adapt to the changes, we have agreed that some of the regulations will apply in other time limits. This concerns, in particular, the need to appoint an accessibility coordinator, which will enter into force from September 2020. - or the entry into force of laws allowing complaints about lack of availability - here we have a vacathio legis of 24 months - or the possibility of certification of private entities - for this we have 18 months after the entry into force of the Act. In conclusion, I would like to present here, your marshal, High Izbo, a few important conclusions, I think, as a result of work and government, and the Sejm, which is proceeding on this very important not to say: historical for the environment of people with particular needs of the project. In Poland 12% Poles, i.e. 5 million citizens, are people to some extent with some kind of disability. Today we are one of the fastest ageing societies on the old continent. By 2020, the number of senior citizens will already reach 10 million, or 1/4 of the population. The Act on Accessibility for people with special needs is the first horizontal systemic approach to combating discrimination, to the need to open up to the needs of older people and people with disabilities. This law is an expression of a solidarity policy of the government that rejects social exclusion or economic inequality. This was emphasised by the current Deputy Minister of Investment and Development at the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure on several occasions in the discussion. I would also like to make it very clear that this law is the key to opening the door to public institutions to people with disabilities, seniors, parents with children, generally all who have special needs related to their health. And thanks to this law, the public sector, offices, schools, universities, health care institutions will have to ensure architectural accessibility or availability in communication. This law introduces not only obligations but also numerous accessibility instruments, establishes accessibility coordinators in public authorities, creates this Accessibility Board as an expert advisory body, or regulates accessibility certification for private entities. For the first time on such a scale, the Act creates sources of funding for these tasks. It creates the Accessibility Fund mentioned earlier by me - the first ever financial solution dedicated to removing barriers on such a scale. This law opens the world, in quotes, as it is said in the common language, to the prisoners of the fourth floor, to tens of thousands of people who are trapped in their homes because of the lack of an elevator. or no driveway. This law opens up the possibility of financing such investments. This law is about meeting the needs and meeting the expectations of a large part of society on an unknown scale. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I think that each of us, with a public mandate, often in his parliamentary work, in the parliamentary office, during meetings in the country or locally, in his city, met with people who needed it to give them access to public services, offices and many other places. Today, these people are often very difficult, to a lesser extent, to access these places. I think that it is often difficult for a young, healthy person to understand how important accessibility is. Imagine that we would call a conference, a meeting, and you wouldn't be able to enter the building because there's no open door, no open space, you have to climb. Today someone can say: What is this availability? It doesn't concern me. But I can assure you that in a few, a dozen or several decades, this will apply to each of us because we're all getting older. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased to announce that the Act on Accessibility to people with special needs has met with a very positive response from many ladies and gentlemen of Members, and, above all, it has received extremely warm and very good acceptance from the social representation present in the work on the procedated act. I think that this law in this form is above all a concrete expression of the hope that the design process, the process of changes in public space will proceed in a better way, in a perfect way, in identifying the needs of people with disabilities, to which access to such a public space should be ensured. There is also a new model for designing architectural solutions - after the entry into force of this regulation. This is above all, as I said, meeting needs, fulfilling the hopes and expectations of a large part of society on an unprecedented scale. In conclusion, as the rapporteur of the committee, I once again express my great thanks to the leadership of the Ministry of Investment and Development, which led this project in the Sejm, and to the whole government for adopting this initiative so important for hundreds of thousands of people in our country. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u336	Thank you very much, sir. I think this is a good time for us to consider the availability of our Members' Offices for Disabled Persons, because many of them are simply unavailable. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented by Mr Aleksander Mr Forczyński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u337	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour on behalf of the Law and Justice Club to present a position on the proposed Act on Accessibility for people with special needs, print No 3579. The draft Act on Accessibility for people with special needs is the first system solution in Poland. The aim of this project is to gradually improve the availability of public entities so that people with specific needs can use public services as independently as possible. Removing barriers and ensuring accessibility for all citizens, including especially those experiencing mobility or perception difficulties, is one of the key tasks of a country that implements the principle of social justice. Improving social inclusion and creating a society of equal opportunities depend to a large extent on the implementation of accessibility, which as a feature of infrastructure and services ensures their easier use and use. The current regulatory system at both statutory and executive levels does not have satisfactory effects on this accessibility. The rules of law are scattered and insufficiently effective. What has become a standard in Western or Northern European countries in implementing infrastructure investments is still just an example of the goodwill of investors or local authorities interested in improving selected aspects of buildings or their surroundings, which are, however, mostly different in terms of quality and technical. The Polish legal order lacks solutions to define minimum technical requirements to ensure the availability of public buildings. The same is true for public services and communication. As a result of the inspection carried out by the NIK in the information of 30 October 2018, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 30 October 2018 to 30 October 2018. The availability of public space for older people and disabled people has been found to be a general state of accessibility of public space in Poland is definitely unsatisfactory. NIK pointed out that already at the stage of preparation and design, some of the investments lacked solutions to improve the availability of public spaces. In addition, almost 40% cases of design, technical or tender documentation did not take into account solutions for people with different disabilities, and the concepts of improvement mainly concerned people with mobility disabilities without other disabilities or the needs of older people. For example, for a person who has difficulty moving due to advanced age, a disabled person or a parent with a baby carriage, moving around the office or handling an official matter is generally a challenge due to a number of barriers in the form of stairs and the location of customer service places without taking into account the aspect of availability. Turning to the proposed law, we notice a significant change in relation to the legislative solutions already adopted in Poland in the form of a dictionary in which innovative definitions have been formulated using the perspective of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Art. 2 introduces definitions: barriers, accessibility, people with special needs, universal design, rational improvement. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3 The Act indicates a catalogue of entities collectively named public entities which are obliged to ensure the accessibility of the Act. The Act also requires public entities to publish on the website of the entity information about the scope of their activities in the form of an accessible electronic file, recording of content in Polish sign language, information in a text that is easy to read. The role of the proposed law is not only to identify an obligation for public entities, but also to provide tools for achieving the objectives of this regulation and to create a system framework to ensure accessibility in all public policies. In accordance with Chapter 5 of the draft law, a new special fund of the Accessibility Fund will be created to be managed by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. In conclusion: the implementation of the solutions provided for in the proposed law will accelerate the process of improving accessibility. This increase in accessibility will benefit from [[♪ The bell ♪]] mainly people with disabilities, older people, seniors and all other people suffering from various difficulties, barriers every day. The Law and Justice Club fully supports the proposed law. People with special needs will be able to use public services as independently as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u338	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition - Mr Józef Lassot will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u339	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, I present the position of the club vis-à-vis the government's draft Act on Accessibility to people with special needs, print No 3579. According to the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber last year, Mon. The availability of public space for the elderly and the disabled is generally not satisfactory in Poland. People with disabilities also face a number of barriers in public institutions and places that should be statutoryally supported by groups at risk of social marginalisation. The Constitution of the Republic of Poland obliges the public authorities to provide assistance to disabled persons in securing the existence and adoption of work and social communication. According to the justification given by the projector, the aim of the proposed law is to gradually improve the availability of public entities, so that people with specific needs can use public services, including architectural accessibility services, digital accessibility and information and communication accessibility as independently as possible. This was the expectation of the authors of the project, we hoped that the Dezyderate of the Committee on Infrastructure would be taken very seriously and we would receive a project that would take issues of accessibility much more widely. However, contrary to what the rapporteur referred to, the club considers and concludes that the draft law is in principle sanctioning the state of the past and already practiced in the investments being designed, particularly as regards these architectural barriers. There is a novelty: each public body shall designate at least one person acting as an accessibility coordinator. The Minister shall appoint a Accessibility Board. We create bureaucratic procedures instead of really solving problems. As if this were not enough, a payment certification obligation is introduced, or an entity ensures that people with special needs are available. An example of compliance by design and operation objects with bhp or fire requirements may be given to the unnecessary use of such a solution. There is no certification, and the surveillance services effectively enforce it. Finally: the law provides that 375 million PLN is spent on its implementation for 10 years. This has nothing to do with the announcement of Prime Minister Morawiecki from last year, who declared the destiny of PLN 23 billion, for 8 years. This is, ladies and gentlemen, 61 times less than the Prime Minister declared. So we find that this law does not meet enough expectations that we had in the drafting of this law, but this is progress. This is a very important issue - ensuring availability. Therefore, the Platform's parliamentary club will support the bill, in accordance with the principle: better rust than nothing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u340	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Barbara Chrobak will speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u341	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The government proposal for a law on accessibility for people with special needs, on improving access to public entities, which will enable people with special needs to benefit from public services as independently as possible, deserves not only approval but our full support. Regardless of the views that shape our political discourse on a daily basis, initiatives are created that do not divide but can only combine. This bill is such an initiative. It responds not only to EU directives but, above all, to social waiting, it allows for solutions that have been proposed for many years, facilitating the adaptation of public authorities to the needs of citizens, including those with such vulnerable disabilities. Ladies and gentlemen! Forgive the digression of a personal nature, but it is as appropriate here as possible. I myself recently suffered a knee injury, experienced personally how a disabled person has to cope with the barriers that bump up in front of her when he wants to go to a hospital, clinic or state office, not to mention cultural institutions. The social exclusion that we advise every day, together with experts in our public debates, also manifests itself, ladies and gentlemen, in the accessibility of public services to citizens with disabilities, including access to public institutions. The fact that the government of Prime Minister Morawiecki notes how much more needs to be improved in this area deserves full approval. This, I believe, is an expression of the sensitivity of the weakest citizens, those whom the state should be particularly concerned about. There's no room for liberal calculations here. This is where the programme of the country addressed to the citizen is being implemented, which expects support because of its limitations. The Kukiz Club15 notes that the law has been prepared at a high legislative level. It is the institutions and those who direct their work that will be obliged to modernise with the spirit of the law, and what is important, that the law introduces mechanisms to secure the financing of the necessary changes in this respect, so it creates a real mechanism for their implementation. It introduces expected changes in access to information for people with disabilities. It introduces a mechanism for indicating when applying for grants how through the use of grant resources, tasks would be carried out to improve the availability of cultural materials and to add to the scope of the State's patronage tasks relating to the provision and availability of cultural materials in forms tailored to the needs and capabilities of persons with disabilities, e.g. blind people. It introduces provisions requiring the inclusion in the organisation of cultural and artistic events and mass events of accessibility of a given event for persons with disabilities. Our country and its institutions must change so that the citizen feels that the office is a friendly place where he can settle his affairs without taking the heroic effort for a person in a wheelchair to overcome four floors without an elevator. Taking initiatives such as those provided for in the Act is not only a duty of the government, but above all a test of humanity, empathy and co-ownership for the weaker, needy help. It's an exam for all of us in this room. In view of the above, Kukiz15 recommends the adoption of the law. Personally, I am pleased that this has been done in this term of office of the Sejm. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u342	Thank you very much, Member. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish People's Party - Coalition Polish position will be presented by Mr Kazimierz Kotowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u343	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Government's draft law on accessibility for people with special needs, contained in print 3579, the committee's report is print 4644, as the rapporteur and my previous speakers said, sets out measures to ensure the availability of architecture, digital and information and communication to people with special needs in the public sphere and where public funds are being used. That's good, and our club's gonna be in on this. We believe that what would have to be finalised is something that would certainly be different and would not give us the opportunity to ask questions if we had done so, for example. in January or December of that year, however, I will not continue or develop this thread. However, it is good that in this project we will detail these issues, which are covered by the various laws, which concern construction, communication solutions, organisation and functioning of communication, collective communication, cultural life centres, education and administration. The question of all these records later being implemented will probably be in order to enforce this in the various processes and operations of these records. This is not just a formal record, but a materialization of our schools, public centres, offices, stations and public transport. In the provisions of the Act we are talking about the bodies that will be set up, about the Access Council at the Minister, about the representative at each administrative office. We are also talking about measures that we will be able to support the implementation of individual projects. And here, Minister, the amount of PLN 375 million is scrolling. Okay, we'll assume that's a start, because if we divide it into two and a half thousand. Municipalities in Poland or 400 powiats or 16 regions, if not counted, this amount does not look impressive. Nevertheless, Minister, I would like us to understand each other clearly. Mr. Prime Minister spoke about the programme "Availability+" and there was an amount of about 20 billion PLN. I'd like the Minister to get me out of a possible mistake, because maybe I don't think I have accurate information, because I haven't been in the local government for some time now. Didn't these funds come from regional operational programmes of voivodships? I don't think that's what happened, but that's the kind of information that's been going on somewhere. If this were to happen, regional authorities participated in this, it was done with the consent of the European Commission and was preceded by agreements with the Commission, and also feasible, then I have nothing against it, but then it should be stressed that the local government is also involved and we are using these resources for the common good. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u344	Thank you very much. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I invite Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan to present the position of the Free and Solidarnia wheels. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u345	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position towards the government's draft Act on Accessibility to people with special needs. As chairman of the Seym Committee on Senior Policy, I have taken the Government's proposal "Availability+" for the years 2018 to 2025 with great attention and great interest. I have no doubt that the assumptions contained in the programme will contribute to improving the conditions and quality of life of many Poles, including older people, who today, due to their temporary or constantly limited efficiency, as well as the multitude of barriers in the wider public space, are often excluded from public life. Just as the senior organisations that apply to me are pleased to see that, alongside people with disabilities, older people are listed as one of the main social groups for which the solutions contained in the programme are dedicated. I am silenced that, as a result of the public consultation and the numerous opinions sent to the Ministry, including mine, this project clearly covers the elderly as well. We are one of the fastest ageing societies in Europe, which is why it is important that Polish seniors can fully exercise their rights and participate actively in social and economic life as long as possible. The removal of existing public barriers to communication, architecture or digital space prevents the marginalisation of older people and at the same time serves to make full use of their potential. Today's draft Accessibility Act, which is a key element of the "Availability" programme, is extremely comprehensive and contains many noteworthy solutions. These include ensuring coordination of the activities carried out, setting up the Accessibility Council as a very important consultative body, and introducing the possibility to complain about the lack of availability of a building, place or service. It should be stressed that the proposed changes do not aim to expand administrative positions and that the functions and responsibilities resulting from the new rules will be distributed within existing structures. The path to accessibility will probably be long, because this area has been developing too slowly or has not developed at all. However, I am pleased that the first steps towards normality have already been taken. One of them is the project being processed. The Free and Solidarni Circle supports the proposed solutions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u346	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Do any of your fellow Members wish to join the list? I don't see any additional reports. So I close the list. Mr Szczerba, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, begins. Time - 1 minute. You're welcome. [[Good morning.]] Good morning.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u347	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'd like to comment on that. All I can say is, from a big cloud, it's a little rain. But I have specific questions about the Accessibility Act for people with special needs. A few questions. Firstly, last year, on July 17th, the Council of Ministers adopted a resolution on the "Availability+" programme. At that time there was a total of PLN 23 billion in this programme. How does this happen, Minister, that the draft law, which is de facto the implementation of the resolution of the Council of Ministers, contains an amount for a multi-annual action of 375 million? Where's the money? Where's the billions? Weren't they needed just before the local elections? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u348	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u349	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the following questions. Firstly, how does the Ministry estimate the scale of needs with the possibilities of the proposed Accessibility Fund? Secondly, is it envisaged that solutions that improve accessibility should be consulted on a mandatory basis at the design stage with central entities with appropriate competence in this area? The problems that have been reported so far with installing solutions, which are then very difficult or even impossible to use, lead to this question being asked. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u350	Thank you. I invite Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u351	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! There is much talk about ensuring accessibility for people with special needs. And rightly so, because such needs should be met. When we adopted the program last year, many people hoped that the program would be launched soon. Not the elderly, but the people who have adult children who cannot leave the apartment because they live on the third or fourth floor. And I asked in the form of interpellation. And all of a sudden today, when we're talking so much again, how beautiful it's gonna be, there's zero in the budget for that. Ladies and gentlemen, why are you messing with people's heads when you're not securing money for this purpose at all? I ask you how many such projects will be implemented this year, because the financial consequences are what I said. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u352	Thank you. Mr Aleksander Forczyński, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u353	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! To answer your previous question, Margaret Małgorzata Gosiewska, if there are elevators in our parliamentary offices, I want to show you that there is an elevator in my parliamentary office in Chojnice on the third floor. And that's what I'm proud of because I was looking for a room with an elevator. And so, back to the topic, I wanted to say that I lived on the fourth floor for 24 years, and I know what the problem is, and I was a lot younger then. At one committee meeting we also talked about the problem of elevators in cooperative blocks and more. My question is this: Shouldn't it be necessary, today, for investments planned by developers or entrepreneurs, for institutions to build an elevator, the Minister, not just in public places? This is very important, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because today we should, I think, build every house, even with one floor, with an elevator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u354	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz July, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome. [[Someone's been there before.]] Sorry, yes, Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, Law and Justice are the first ones on the list. You're welcome, sir. And Mr Grzegorz July will wait a while.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u355	As if she were a Member, I would gladly pass. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, A government bill on accessibility for people with special needs - we will all say - is very much needed and expected. An element of this law is the existence of an Accessibility Fund, which will primarily provide financially attractive loans or loans. The project focuses on public buildings. And here's my first question. Often the adaptation of buildings in terms of accessibility is part of wider modernisation investments. Will it be possible to apply for these loans in this configuration? And second question. The project also includes adaptation measures in multi-family buildings. Will the conditions of the aid be the same in this case, including the possibility of partial redemption of the loan or loan? This isn't in the bill, but are there any ideas, any suggestions for the future, what could the scale of redemptions be? Let this be treated, as the rapporteur, Mr Polaczek, said, [[♪ The bell ♪]] as a question of the prisoners of the fourth floor, who often come to our parliamentary offices and ask about the scale of this assistance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u356	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Grzegorz Lipc, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, to ask a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u357	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today all day the Law and Justice wants to do a lot of good things for people with disabilities. We already had another act by Prime Minister Morawiecki, who said that not only should there be blue envelopes, which are for parking for people with disabilities, but can also give real envelopes, but of course he divided these people, because some will get, and some will not get. Today, we talked about the fact that many, 20 billion PLN were foreseen for the "Availability+" programme, while now there are 375 million PLN. Those are the facts. Another fact is that for the first time, more than 230 people lost employment in the civil service compared to last year. You are talking about the fact that regulation introduces the concept of a barrier to legal order, introduces a new concept of accessibility in an architectural context, different exclusions. Therefore, remembering the protest of people with disabilities, we hope that they will be revoked from entering the Sejm [[♪ The bell ♪]] within the framework of this removal of barriers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u358	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Papke, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u359	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Of course, we are proceeding according to our colleagues from PiS on a magnificent bill on ensuring accessibility for people with special needs. Often they are people with disabilities who move specially marked cars. Meanwhile, in Olsztyn, where I come from - I have the honour to represent the Olsztyn region - in the Olsztyn area Old Town monument conservator, I will add, of course, that the subordinate Warmia-Mazurskie voivodeship from PiS orders the removal of 10 parking spaces for people with disabilities. We're talking blue envelopes here. What is the reason for such a decision according to the conservator? Because blue color spoils the aesthetics of urban space. That's how the PiS government treats people with disabilities. My questions are: When will the Warmia-Mazury monument conservator withdraw its decision and people with disabilities again be able to fully exercise their constitutional accessibility rights to the public area? And second question, I'm sure. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Unfortunately rhetorical: Isn't it simply humanly embarrassing for you to treat people with disabilities in this way? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u360	Thank you. The next question will be asked by Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u361	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Art. 6 sets minimum requirements to ensure that people with special needs are available. In turn, the article. 7 specifies that, in an individual case, if a public entity is unable, in particular for technical or legal reasons, to ensure the availability of a person with special needs, the so-called person shall be provided. alternative access. I would like to ask if any supervision will be applied to ensure that this alternative access is used in the most extreme cases, however. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u362	Thank you. Mr Marek Owa, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u363	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to raise this problem that you spoke about, the rapporteur, the prisoners of the fourth floor. The rapporteur said that this law would help solve these problems. If we look at the impact of the assessment of the regulation, unfortunately it is stated that only 3,600 housing communities or cooperatives will be covered by this programme. In view of the above, this shows how a small percentage, the block margin can actually count on funding. I therefore ask specifically: How much will the Accessibility Fund have for this purpose on an annual basis? According to my calculations, this is 850 million per 10 years, which is a very small amount. Second thing: How much will the grants or loans be granted? What are the conditions for such applications? When will this be activated? Because as you know, this year the amount is at PLN 0 and this funding will not start until next year. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If we want to look, we cannot look at the intention of this law, but at real records, because they show us whether we are able to solve the problem or not. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u364	Thank you. Mr Adam Sněžek, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u365	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This extremely necessary and expected law will make it possible to expect many questions to the Members' Offices about ways, the possibility of using the solutions provided for in the Act. I would therefore like to ask: When will the institutions and local authorities in practice be able to benefit from the Accessibility Fund? How and when will the first selection of proposals be announced? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u366	Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, will ask the last question at this point in the meeting. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u367	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question about the obligation to certify, for payment, certification by the entities to whom the status of the certification body will be granted. What is the real reason for such a procedure? After all, as I said in my club appearance, other requirements of fire. whether health and safety are also requirements that need to be respected and there is no certification there. However, it seems that this is again a unnecessary procedure, unnecessary spending of money, because supervisory authorities should really deal with it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u368	Thank you. This question and previous questions will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development, Ms Małgorzata Jarosińska-Jedynak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u369	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Dear Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank you very much for your appreciation for the bill. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm gonna try to take it one step at a time. If I miss anything, we'll explain. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, with regard to the draft law on accessibility for people with special needs, this is not a project that refers to new buildings, but we want to regulate the issue of buildings that already exist and which are not accessible to people with disabilities. As regards the amendment of the Construction Law, we are in the process of amending this document. We're gonna process it, we're gonna change it to take into account accessibility issues. First of all, after the entry into force of the Act on Accessibility to persons with special needs, all resorts will have 12 months to review their legal acts and report any changes to those acts, which will be considered by the Accessibility Council and subsequently notified by the Minister for Regional Development to possible deliberations. With regard to new jobs and extensive administration, we do not plan to create new jobs under the law. As regards the issue of the accessibility coordinator, it may be a person - there is no requirement to create a new job - who is already employed in an institution. It may also be a few people dealing with this as part of additional tasks. As far as certification is concerned, it is not mandatory, ladies and gentlemen. It's not from the bill. Certification is voluntary and applies to private entities where they wish to obtain the benefits referred to in the Accessibility Act. Then they're certified. Certification is to be carried out by entities which have powers to do so, so that it is carried out on the basis of uniform standards and uniform criteria. Today everyone can issue a certificate, a document confirming that an institution is available, but it does so on the basis of its own criteria. We want to have surveillance and know that these buildings are actually available to people with special needs. That is why we want this to be done on the basis of uniform standards. The issue of finance has been raised many times. Ladies and gentlemen, as we have already mentioned, the programme "Availability" is talking about PLN 23 billion. Nobody takes that money and nobody says the program isn't going to happen. A number of initiatives have been identified under the "Availability+" programme, many actions already being carried out, such as the exchange of rolling stock: rail and bus, investments in schools, universities, health care institutions and many other projects. These are mainly pilot projects aimed at showing issues related to improving accessibility. It is already happening, it is implemented within the framework of this 23 billion PLN. These measures shall be engaged within the framework of national operational programmes financed by the European Union. As regards the 375 million PLN indicated in the Act on Accessibility to persons with special needs, these are measures which constitute costs implementation of the law. They will come from the state budget - 90% These appropriations are the Accessibility Fund - and are intended for the next 10 years. Ladies and gentlemen! 23 billion zlotys, which are dedicated to the implementation of the "Availability+' programme, are only the beginning, as many other actions financed by the funds are being implemented. The new financial perspective will include these accessibility issues. I can say that the European Commission is very positive about this type of action and investment, so I think that these measures will certainly be greater. As far as the scale of needs is concerned, it is very large. As far as issues relating to the definition of construction standards are concerned, we will want to develop them. We will certainly consult widely with the environment of people with disabilities, because they are the best source of information in this area. As regards Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego and the Accessibility Fund, the agreement was signed with the bank. The Accessibility Fund will be starting soon, the first competitions will be in September. The Fund will be funded from a wide range of sources: both the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities and the State budget, and the EU funds from the repayment of loans from the 2007-2013 perspective. At the moment, it is therefore difficult to estimate the average annual budget of this fund. The Accessibility Fund will finance exclusive investments related to accessibility in competitions announced by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. The first contest to be held in September will be a pilot contest. As part of this competition we predict up to 40% redemptions for residential buildings. As regards loans, they will be more favourable than other loans available on the market. As far as the article is concerned. 7, i.e. technical and legal conditions and alternative access - yes, it will be monitored, firstly, because after 2 years alternative access will have to be sanctioned. Secondly, in the report on accessibility, which each institution will submit to the Minister for Development every 4 years, it will be necessary to indicate the conditions under which alternative access was provided. In addition, you will be able to complain about alternative access if the person who accesses such access is not satisfied. I've already talked about the certification obligation, so I think I've discussed all the issues that have been raised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u370	Thank you, Minister. The rapporteur of the committee, Mr Jerzy Polaczek, also spoke to this point. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u371	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As rapporteur, I have decided to ask for the floor and to refer to the questions that have been addressed to the representatives of the government. I think, because of the importance of the regulation that the High Sejm is discussing today, I would like, first of all, to quote these statistics again, 12% Poles, i.e. 5 million citizens, are people with some kind of disability and Poland simply needs such solutions in the face of these demographic changes to be free from barriers, because it is a challenge not only social, but also civilizational and developmental. Speaking here in particular on some of the issues that have been asked by Members who have spoken, I would like to emphasise with emphasis that this law, as such a model, systemic project, also contains a great deal of changes in the provisions of many other existing legislation. And in order to make it clear here, or to remind the ladies and gentlemen or the general public of the scope of this regulation, I would just like to present the titles of the laws which this law covers, which involves changes adjusting to those objectives which we are to achieve together with many social partners, local governments and public institutions. First of all, we have a change in the provisions of the Municipal Government Act, we have a change in the Act on Organizing and Conducting Cultural Activity, we have a change in the Construction Law Act. Here I will mention only one of the few changes in the Construction Law: The scope and content of the construction project should be adapted to the characteristics and nature of the building, the complexity of the construction works and depending on the purpose of the design object to determine the necessary conditions for persons with special needs referred to in the Act on Accessibility to persons with special needs. So through this general regulation we change, the government changes, in a very concrete way, in a very precise way, many solutions, adapting them to the challenges of civilization in terms of the needs of the elderly, the disabled, mothers and children, etc. We also have a revision of the Act on Professional and Social Rehabilitation and employment of people with disabilities, we have a change of the Banking Law. Here I would like to mention to you and to you only one very, I would say, an eloquent article in the amended banking law. Namely, a person with special - I quote - the needs referred to in the Act on Accessibility to persons with special needs, has the right to receive general terms and conditions in forms such as: audio recording, visual recording of content in sign language, printout in Braille alphabet or printout with font size convenient to read, within 7 days of the date of notification of such a need. So far, there have been no such regulations in the Banking Law. We also have a change to the law on spatial planning and development. This is a basic piece of legislation, which also defines cooperation in spatial planning at local government level, so that solutions that are friendly to people who are addressed to this regulation can be developed. We have a change to the Act on the Protection of Monuments, a change to the Act on Nature Conservation, a change to the Act on Public Collective Transport. Moreover, the Minister mentioned this here, referring to examples of government policy, the Ministry of Investment and Development's policy, which was also dedicated to the Ministry of Investment and Development. the group that is addressed to these solutions. We have a revision of the Law on the facilitation of the preparation and implementation of housing investments and associated investments, etc. I would like to put an end to this example. We also have the subject of the procedure at this meeting - we have examined the Senate's amendments to it - the law on the construction of the Westerplatte Museum - the branch. And yet, this law, which is a separate special regulation, will also have to provide for architectural solutions to facilitate access to those of whom this law speaks in connection with the design of new solutions in the Westerplatte area. Today such solutions in many public places in Poland simply do not exist. So much for me. This is an addition to my previous statement, and this, I think, is incomplete, but an attempt to show some specific, very important, important solutions, which are addressed by dozens, if not hundreds of thousands of people in our country who will benefit from this important regulation in the coming years. As rapporteur, I would also like to thank all parliamentary clubs for working on this project. The fact that no new proposals, new amendments, have been tabled at second reading today is also a testimonial of the maturity of the project itself. And here again I would like to thank the government side, all the social partners who participated in the public consultation. It is also important for all parliamentary clubs to be thanked for the fact that the state, together with our social partners, has tried - I think, in a good atmosphere, substantively - on this very important, systemic project, for the first time addressed in such a way, to many hundreds of thousands of people in our country who are simply waiting for it, and the public expression of this was, above all, the speeches of the representatives of the social side who participated in the work on this project in the Committee on Infrastructure. This is the best litmus paper showing how this bill is needed in the country. Once again, just for all these joint actions, thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u372	Thank you. And after that, I close the discussion. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Law on investments in the scope of the regasification terminal of liquefied natural gas in Świnoujście, - amending the Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels Act. The reports shall be in prints No 3647 and No 3652 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in these cases the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items on the agenda listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 13. of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the Social Assistance Act and the Law on Mental Health Protection (Prints 3524 and 3638). Mr Grzegorz Matusiak will present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u373	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the Social Assistance Act and the Mental Health Act, print No 3524. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 16 July 2019, asks the High Sejm to adopt the draft law presented. Two amendments were tabled, which were adopted unanimously. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u374	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Katarzyna Dutkiewicz will present her position on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u375	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present our position towards the government's draft law amending the Social Assistance Act and the Mental Health Act, print No 3524. The provisions of the draft law cover two areas. The proposed regulations are mostly based on the practice of aid measures showing a number of examples of the need for change. The aim of the proposed law is among others. reduce the scale of irregularities in facilities providing 24-hour care to disabled persons, chronically ill or elderly persons, thereby increasing the safety of elderly and disabled persons in these facilities, improving the effectiveness of sanctions imposed on operators without authorisation, and improving the conditions of residence of persons staying in legally operating 24-hour care facilities. The amendment also aims to facilitate the authorisation of establishments, particularly those with little scope, by relaxing certain standards and clarifying the provisions on the documents required for the application for authorisation. The draft law also regulates the rules of residence in institutions and the rules of leaving them by persons to whom the Law of 19 August 1994 on the protection of mental health applies. This important aspect of the project stresses, on the one hand, the issue of responsible care and safety for people with mental disorders, and on the other, it is intended to ensure that their personal freedoms are respected. It is contrary to the law of these people to contact the outside world and to self-decision about going beyond the premises. The rules of restrictions in this respect should be regulated and the only objective obstacle may be the poor health of those persons confirmed by the relevant medical certificate. In view of the demands of those whose parents have been sent to a social assistance home, the Act will also extend the catalogue of situations where the obligation to pay a social assistance home payment may be exempted. The proposed law also aims to clarify certain provisions of the procedure for granting, granting and paying social assistance benefits. By appropriate provisions, the designer also limited the possibility of obtaining authorisation to operate an establishment by entities which the voivode has imposed in the past at least twice a fine for running an establishment without authorisation or has decided to suspend the operation of the establishment. Those entities will not be allowed to obtain authorisation within 5 years of the punishment. At the same time, the 5-year period provides operators with an opportunity to adapt their activities to the requirements of the Act and obtain authorisation in the future. I would like to stress that the bill was the subject of consultation and opinion, and their comments at the stage of work alongside numerous trade union and non-governmental organisations were also passed on to voivodships and voivodships. The Joint Committee on Government and Local Government expressed a positive opinion on the draft. On 16 July this year, the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy gave a unanimous positive opinion on the draft law. The government project is based on the real need to clarify the existing legal provisions and responds to the needs and expectations of the subject-matter of the regulation. In view of the positive effects of the proposed changes, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of the government draft law amending the Social Assistance Act and the Law on the Protection of Mental Health. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u376	Thank you. The position on behalf of the Civic Platform-Citizen Coalition Club will be presented by Ms Agnieszka Hanajczyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u377	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Club to present a position on the draft law amending the Social Assistance Act and the Mental Health Act. The proposals are contained in print No 3524. My esteemed previous speaker has discussed all the proposed changes. All I'm gonna say is that I've turned to social policy practitioners. They also gave very good recommendations on the proposed changes. The proposed regulations and changes regarding the rules of residence in the institution, its leaving and 24-hour care are a long-awaited response to the shortcomings of the system presented by practitioners in the current form. It also seems important to extend the catalogue of persons exempt from payment for family members. The conditions for exemption have been clarified, taking into account the situation of people whose parents have been grossly reprehensible to them in the past. The proposed changes will minimise or reduce irregularities reported by the wards or family of the wards. The clarification of the rules in the area of authorisation to operate or withdraw establishments immediately, as well as supervision and control should contribute to the improvement of the standard and quality of the services offered. An appropriate procedure is to extend the content of the article. 11 the Social Assistance Act, which refers to the refusal to grant or limit the benefit, and not so far - only its amount. I would also like to draw attention to the need to regulate certain issues, e.g. the rules for limiting the possibility for sick people to leave social services on their own. These changes are the result of a report of the National Torture Prevention Mechanism (National Torture Prevention Mechanism) The rights of residents of social assistance houses. This report is available on the Ombudsman's website. The reports highlight the right of residents of social assistance homes to interact with the outside world. Residents should have the right to decide for themselves whether to leave the premises, and the only objective obstacle to using such exits may be their medical condition confirmed by a medical certificate. Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion, none of these changes raises doubts. That's the answer to the problems that have been reported. It's a very good project. Of course, the Civic Platform - the Civic Coalition will support this proposal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u378	Thank you. Ms Agnieszka Szczaj will present her position on behalf of the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u379	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Club on print No. 3524, on the draft law amending the Act on Social Assistance and the Act on the Protection of Mental Health. As my previous speaker said, the Act indeed regulates a number of very important issues concerning the functioning of social assistance homes and ensuring the safety and good care of independent persons, elderly persons and disabled persons. Particular attention should be paid to strengthening supervision and control of welfare homes. On the example of illegal social assistance houses, we know that where there was no control and supervision, despite the freedom of economic activity, there have been many violations of patient rights and many bad incidents related to the reduction of the freedoms and freedoms of people with disabilities, as well as negligence towards people with disabilities. That's why they're important records. I hope that they will clarify and deepen care, while, of course, the functioning of legislation that extends the catalogue of possibilities, e.g. improve the opening of family social services homes. Here I would like to refer to the regulation made by Kukiz15 2 years ago in the scope of the same social assistance law concerning family social services houses, from print No. 1968. This regulation further improved and expanded the catalogue of eligible entities. At the present time - when a lot of social cooperatives are created, those who operate in the area of social economy, in the good course of social policy - social cooperatives are able to run family welfare homes well. That's the amendment to the bill we filed. This amendment is in the freezer, it's not procedated. Indeed, it had not been introduced before due to various omissions, but also because the Social Cooperatives Act was created a little later than the Act on Family Welfare Homes. Hence, I would ask very much to draw attention to this bill. At the same time, if the legislative process had lasted too long, my club had prepared an amendment which allowed this possibility to take place during the process over this law. I'm putting it in your hands, Marshal. I'll put it down in a minute. Positive issues which are included in this Act and bring us closer to the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. I am pleased that, before persons who have a decision on incapacity are placed in institutions, in social services homes, the court will have to issue a decision - that is not only their guardian decides. This is a step forward, but I will remind you of the project, also submitted by Kukiz, 15, which was twice rejected in this room, which was intended to limit the institution of incapacitation of intellectually disabled people in Poland. I would like to remind you of the Ministry's assurances that he would take up work, because the charge that was made to this project was that it was not entirely legislatively prepared. He was prepared by the social side, so he had the right not to be well prepared. I will remind you of these commitments, about the fact that legislative work on this project was to begin, because for many, many years all the levels, including the UN, have pointed out that an institution of incapacity has been abused in Poland. So I would very much like to ask you to go back to this subject and fulfil this commitment, since you have rejected the social side project twice. There are also positive provisions not to charge for those who have not been properly cared for by their parents. We have had many such cases actually hurting grandchildren or children who have not had any caring or caring care from their parents, and unfortunately have been burdened with the cost of their stay in the welfare home, so this change is also positive. Of course, the project has many other good records. The Kukiz Club15 will support this project, but draws attention to the amendment made by us to this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u380	Thank you very much. Mr Krystian Jarubas, on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club - Coalition Poland made a written statement. Ms Małgorzata Zwierzan will speak on behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u381	Mrs. Marshal!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u382	Member, before you begin... The person who signed the amendment on behalf of the Kukiz club15 is not entitled to sign the amendment to Mrs Szgaj. This is the second reading, so only people can... Mr Paweł Szramka... [[Vice-President.]] I don't think there's any authority - from what they tell me - to sign. So check it out and forward it to the person empowered to sign by the end of this point. Now you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u383	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Members' Circle, I present my position on the government proposal for a law amending the Law on Social Assistance and the Law on the Protection of Mental Health. This project, as the applicants point out, aims to reduce the scale of irregularities in private facilities providing 24-hour care to disabled persons, chronically ill or elderly people, to improve the effectiveness of sanctions imposed on institutions which are conducted without the appropriate permission of the voivode, to improve the conditions in legally functioning private entities, to extend the catalogue of situations where the obligation to pay a social assistance home may be exempted, or to regulate the rules to limit the independence of leaving social assistance homes or private entities. Unauthorised voivodships providing 24-hour care for disabled persons, chronically ill or elderly people have long been of interest to me. Many times, in various forms, I have asked the Ministry to develop solutions that would reduce the often life-threatening behaviour of people. Also the Committee on Senior Policy, which I have the honour to preside over, after tragic events in Zgierz in the Łódź Voivodeship and in Wolicy in the Wielkopolskie Voivodeship at the end of 2016, she sent a dissertation to the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy and the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. I am pleased that one of the objectives of this project is to improve the effectiveness of sanctions against illegal operators. It is important to increase the amount of penalties imposed, as clearly the level of the existing ones has not been sufficient. For dishonest persons for whom care for others It's just a clean business, but it's not a punishment either. However, I must point out that in my opinion, the solutions contained in this project may not be sufficient. Many times in other positions I have stressed that its inevitability is just as important as the amount of the penalty. Unfortunately, this inevitability is not guaranteed by current or newly designed regulations. At the beginning of this year, I asked the voivodships what the situation of institutions operating without proper permission is like in the area they manage. According to the information sent to me, it is often the case that penalties are imposed repeatedly on one entity and their amount is up to 90 thousand. zł. There are also situations where, after the initiation of the procedure, the imposition of a financial penalty for the conduct of the so-called. A private DPS without permission was terminated due to lack of evidence. For example, I will state that 72 institutions operate in the Mazowieckie voivodship without the required permission. This shows, in my opinion, the scale of this problem. Today, using legally available tools, dishonest people can prolong ongoing proceedings and continue to run an institution that poses a threat to the life and health of the elderly. Despite my doubts, the proposed regulations are a step in the right direction. The Free and Solidarni Members' Circle will support the procedated bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u384	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. Would any of your messengers and your fellow Members still want to be on the list? I don't see anyone checking in. So I close the list. Mr Szczerba, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, will ask the first question at this point. Time - 1 minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u385	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! We alerted at the beginning of the year, that in Poland there are 128 illegal nursing homes. These are the data we received as the Senior Policy Committee of the Police Headquarters. 128 illegal houses at the beginning of the year, which is more than in 2017, then found such illegal houses 105. Minister, what's the current situation? What kind of data do you have? Does this operation of senior care homes without supervision, without control, without standards, with the possibility of violating the dignity and rights of older people in these places still exist and to what extent, Minister, this amendment counters such illegal practices? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u386	Thank you. The next question will be asked by Mrs Alicja Chybicka, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u387	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In these welfare homes there are often children, namely patients who have reached the age of 18, with mental disorders, both congenital and acquired. My question is who will assess the possibility of leaving this house both by a patient and by an elderly person with mental disorders, what it looks like to secure medical care, because in this statutory record I did not find it, and such medical supervision is also a key safety for people who are staying in such homes. I didn't see it, but maybe I was looking at it wrong, a representative of the Ministry of Health, because it's basically a question for the Minister of Health: What is the medical supervision of the Ministry of Health over such facilities? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u388	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, please ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u389	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have doubts about the new paragraphs, Art. Article 55 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2a-2i, which means it's about getting out of DPS. In the mouth. 2a states that the welfare home may lay down rules for the notification by the residents of the house to the staff of this house to leave its territory. The question in the context of the next paragraphs: Social Services House, which is to whom? The owner? I don't know who's gonna do it. I want a house to do it. However, it appears that this should be determined by the director, the manager of that establishment, in the context of subsequent entries. These should be regulations that are not optional, but mandatory. In addition, they should still be controlled by the voivode in my opinion - and this I speak with full responsibility as a former voivode. That's the way it's supposed to be. These must be transparent regulations that actually protect civil liberties, civil liberties [[♪ The bell ♪]] and are subject to control. And it shouldn't be optional, it should be mandatory. Every house has to have rules like that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u390	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u391	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As we touch life, dignity and health, it is necessary to introduce all regulations, uniform standards, rules for all institutions so as to ensure adequate care and standards and safe living conditions for people in institutions. The Act must contain standards for care and living services. Does the Ministry have data on how many institutions do not comply with the expected standards and standards by law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u392	Thank you. Mr Paweł Papke, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u393	Yes, thank you, ma'am. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, All the speakers - and rightly so - praise this bill. On this difficult social subject, the Sejm's legislation goes the right way, but I would like to ask: Is the solution, otherwise very good, about the possibility of self-decision by the pensioners of social assistance houses for mentally ill people safe for the pensioners themselves and for the external environment with which they may be in contact? And does the Ministry have knowledge or statistical data, as often such an independent exit ended in an unpredictable event for the guest or bystander himself, a third party? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u394	Thank you. And I invite Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform - the Civic Coalition, to ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u395	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Against the background of this project, I wanted to ask you about a slightly broader problem. Namely, I want to ask about access for older people, often disabled people, to social services homes. I know that people like that have trouble getting sent to a social worker's home. Tell me what is the scale of unmet needs in this area. Of course, I talk about people with dysfunctions or mental illness all the time. And how many facilities do they take? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u396	Thank you. Mrs Urszula Ruseck, Law and Justice, will ask the last question in this point. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u397	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We know of irregularities that have occurred in running social services homes, especially illegal ones. Thank you so much for this bill. There are many important points that are clarified there. But my question is this: Are these control powers now extended and clarified by the voivodships' services sufficient to prevent these irregularities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u398	Thank you very much. This question and earlier at this point will be answered by Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Mr Marcin Zielenecki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u399	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I wanted to start by thanking the members of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy. We had a meeting yesterday. This bill received, so to speak, a clear positive assessment, positive recommendations from all members of the committee. I would also like to thank the representatives of all parliamentary clubs for their declaration of support for this bill, but also for the many positive words I have heard from you about the solutions contained in this bill. Indeed, it is a project which is a result of cooperation with practices, with those directly working in the field of social assistance, whose regulation we are trying to modernise and improve in this bill. I will try to address the questions that were asked during the debate on the bill. Mr Szczerba asked about issues related to the control of the proper functioning of homes and social services. I remember that in this Chamber I had the opportunity to present detailed statistical information concerning recent years and how these checks were carried out in 2019. I also have data covering the years 2016 and 2017. As regards the number of checks carried out by the voivodship offices in 2016, there were 237 of them, while 222 checks took place in 2017. With regard to the number of facilities that were sanctioned for conducting them without authorisation, one of the questions for 24-hour care concerned this issue, we have, I stress, 36 facilities in 2016 and 39 facilities in 2019. With regard to the number of facilities that, despite the imposition of the penalty, continued to take care of people with disabilities 24 hours a day, we had 37. Let me remind you that this issue is also covered by the regulation contained in the draft law. It is about strengthening criminal or financial sanctions for institutions which, despite the imposition of sanctions, continue to operate. With regard to the number of establishments that received a decision ordering the cessation of 24-hour care activities, there were four such facilities in 2016 and in 2017 the number was zero. As regards the number of facilities providing 24-hour care for disabled persons, chronically ill or elderly, the number of such facilities in Poland was 434, and this is the November 2017 data. As we can see, about half of these facilities in each year have been checked by the provincial offices. I think we can conclude here that this is a control system that works. I remember that also from those data which concerned 2018 and 2019 and which were the subject of the information submitted to the High House, this conclusion could also be formulated on this basis. As far as the number of institutions operating without permission is concerned, this question was also raised in the discussion, according to our estimates of such institutions in Poland there may be about 105. In connection with Mrs Chybick's question about leaving social assistance homes of a specialised nature, i.e. those with mental disorders, I would like to draw attention to one thing. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the bill is primarily aimed at social assistance homes, but also at institutions providing 24-hour care which are not specialised in nature, i.e. those which are not primarily intended for people with mental disorders. As regards the regulation on the issue that Mrs Chybick asked, it is contained in the Law on the Protection of Mental Health. On the other hand, this law actually sets out the terms and conditions under which the possibility of leaving institutions addressed to the elderly, the disabled, in which the care physician found mental disorders can be limited. And here we can say that, on the one hand, we want to ensure that these people are protected by life and health, but on the other hand, we want to guarantee that they have the fundamental value of freedom. As far as questions are concerned about leaving these specialist establishments, and Mr Papke asked, as I say, I do not have this type of data on me, because this question is not directly related to the matter of the law. Mrs Rusecka asked me about the effectiveness and this is a kind of summary of this discussion. It seems to me that, taking into account the statistics on the number of checks but also the number of irregularities and fines found, which have been imposed on establishments operating without authorisation, also taking into account the number of establishments which have been found to have other irregularities, it is confirmed that it is difficult to have reservations about the integrity of this system. I would like to draw attention to the fact that these experiences acquired in the course of the inspections carried out by the voivodships, but also which were the result of what you were talking about, i.e. the practice of those directly carrying out these tasks, from their professional experience, are reflected in the provisions of the proposed law. We are trying to eliminate, address these shortcomings, shortcomings, gaps that have been identified in the practice of applying the provisions of the Social Assistance Act, so as to ensure, on the one hand, the compatibility of social assistance homes, other facilities providing 24-hour care to older people, disabled persons operating in accordance with the law, on the other hand, the legal gaps that some have allowed such activities to be carried out without appropriate authorisation. I think that's it for me. [[Control of the rules. Leaving the house and mandatory rules.]] Yeah, we need to pay attention to two things. The Member asked, you can say, the general principles, i.e. the possibility of introducing... We're not talking about a restriction bill in this draft, we're talking about registration. It is about recording the leaving of a facility by people in such facilities belonging to categories other than those with mental disorders. That's one regulation. We're not talking about a restriction, we're talking about registration. [[These are the rules of leaving.]] No, we're talking about registering leaving this facility, not limiting possibilities. These are two different things. As regards the limitation of the possibility of leaving such an establishment, these are provisions addressed only and only to one category of persons staying in such establishments, i.e. to people with mental disorders, and they, as you must have noticed, are subject to numerous restrictions. It is a doctor's certificate stating the mental disorders and the need to ensure the safety, protection of life and health of such a person, the duration of such a restriction no longer than six months, of course the possibility of appealing on a judicial basis, the possibility of assessing the grounds for the application of this restriction by the Director. He also asked who could introduce such restrictions. These restrictions may be introduced by the director of the DPS - this is the position that, so to speak, legally empowered - as well as by the director of another 24-hour care facility, with a view simply to the well-being, safety, protection of the lives and health of such persons. On the other hand, as far as this first issue is concerned, it is really within the scope of a kind of organizational authority. [[Order orders.]] It's a matter of order, that's exactly what it is. The rules of procedure are those in respect of which such registration of a person staying at a social security home may be introduced. The introduction itself is optional and we are not willing whether we are not able to be persuaded to introduce an obligation of this type of registration. We believe that the head of the facility, the head of the facility, is the right person here to assess the need for such registration. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u400	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u401	The aim of the proposed law is among others. reduce the scale of irregularities in institutions providing 24-hour care to disabled persons, chronically ill or elderly persons, hereinafter referred to as "posts', thereby increasing the safety of elderly and disabled persons staying in these establishments, improving the effectiveness of sanctions imposed on operators without authorisation and improving the conditions of residence of persons staying in legally established 24-hour care facilities. The amendment also aims to facilitate the authorisation of establishments, particularly those with little scope, by relaxing certain standards, and to clarify the provisions on the documents required for the application for authorisation. The draft law also regulates the rules of residence in institutions and the rules of leaving them by persons to whom the Law of 19 August 1994 on the protection of mental health applies. In addition, rules have been laid down to limit the self-leaving of social assistance homes and institutions by their residents who are mentally disturbed. The PSL Club will be in favour of submitting the bill for further work.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u402	Currently, there are providers of 24-hour, very professional childcare, including hospice care. Is it not a serious mistake to prohibit the admission of children to such centres, leaving only foster care facilities and social services homes? As it appears, the proposed wording of the Article. 68b leaves no possibility here.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u403	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in block... Excuse me, actually, there are two amendments, ladies and gentlemen. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. These amendments are properly signed and will therefore be examined at the committee meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government draft law amending the Law on Minimum Compensation for Work (Prints No. 3599 and 3639). Ms Urszula Rusecka will present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u404	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I took part in the presentation of a report by the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the Government bill amending the Law on Minimum Compensation for Work, print No 3599. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 48 (1) (a) On 4 July 2019, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for first reading. At yesterday's meeting, the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, after first reading and considering this proposal, unanimously gave a positive opinion on the draft law. It's a bill very expected by many people. Thank you very much for this bill and the committee is asking the High Sejm to adopt a draft law from print No.3599 on which we are proceeding. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u405	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Robert Warwas will present his position on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u406	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club on the government draft law amending the Law on Minimum Compensation for Work, Parliamentary Printing No. 3599. High Izbo! The aim of the amendment to extend the list of remuneration components to an allowance for traineeships is to ensure a fairer and more transparent shape of the minimum wage for work and to improve the situation of workers receiving the lowest wage. The proposed amendment responds to social expectations. It should be stressed that the proposed change has been welcomed by the employers' and workers' side of the Social Dialogue Council. In addition, the parties argue that excluding the allowance for traineeships from the minimum wage category will contribute inter alia. to increase the motivation of workers and their attachment to the workplace, which is particularly important in the current situation in the labour market. According to the statutory construction, the minimum wage for work is not merely a basic salary. This is the total salary of the employee for the nominal working time of the month in question, so in addition to the basic salary it also includes among others. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance, maintenance and maintenance of equipment and equipment, including the purchase of equipment, equipment, equipment, equipment, equipment, equipment, equipment, equipment, equipment, equipment, equipment, equipment, equipment, equipment, In view of the differences in terms of the name used and the different rules for granting the allowance for traineeships in order to remove possible doubts in the draft law, a definition of the allowance for traineeships is introduced regardless of the name of the allowance adopted by the employer concerned. In the current legal state, a worker with a longer period of employment shall be remunerated at the minimum level of remuneration for work. It may have a lower basic salary than a newly employed person, without an internship or with a short period of employment, performing equal work or work of equal value. In practice, this situation causes dissatisfaction and a sense of injustice among workers with a longer period of employment, whose basic salary is lower than for those just starting a job. This applies to situations where the basic salary of persons who are not entitled to the salary allowance is set at the minimum wage level and is increased annually as a result of the increase in that salary. At the same time, workers with many years of professional experience receive equal remuneration, including both basic salary and salary allowance. In such cases, the allowance in question ceases to be a form of gratification and recognition for the worker as having professional experience in long-term employment. The draft law proposes that amendments should enter into force on 1 January 2020, with the exception of transitional provisions to be applied from 1 September 2019. It is about the possibility for the employer and the employee to negotiate an agreement on an appropriate change of remuneration. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the positive effects of the proposed changes, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of the government draft law amending the Law on Minimum Compensation for Work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u407	Thank you, sir. And I invite Mrs Joanna Frydrych, the Civic Platform Club, the Civic Coalition, to present a position on behalf of this club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u408	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform - Coalition I am pleased to present the position of the club on the government draft law amending the Act on Minimum Compensation for Work. The purpose of this law is to extend the catalogue of components of remuneration to an allowance for traineeships. This applies to persons who have a longer period of employment and whose remuneration is minimal. The proposed amendment will ensure a fairer and more transparent shape of the minimum wage and improve the situation of workers receiving the lowest wage. Minimum remuneration for work is a guarantee of a minimum level of remuneration for each worker. In the current legal state, the minimum wage for work is not a basic salary. This is the total remuneration of the employee for the nominal working time of the month. The basic salary shall include other components of remuneration and employee benefits included in the staff remuneration, including the salary allowance, so that the staff member is consequently entitled to a minimum salary. It is necessary to emphasise that the allowance for traineeships is not compulsory and the rules for granting this allowance are governed by separate provisions. Depending on the employer's rules, the traineeship entitled to the allowance in question may be of a general, occupational or professional nature. The basis for granting it is an internship, i.e. an objective and verifiable criterion. Taking into account that different employers have different rules for granting an allowance for traineeships and different names are used, which may raise doubts As regards interpretation, this law introduces a definition of the allowance for traineeships. This amendment will result in this allowance being a gratification function and will be an expression of the employee's recognition of his professional experience in long-term employment. In conclusion, only employers who, under separate rules, are required to pay the allowance in question will be excluded from the scope of the minimum wage component. The increase in wages of the least-earned workers with long-term employment may help to stabilise employment, but the proposed change will increase the employment costs of regulated workers and thus may result in lower profits for entrepreneurs. Due to the entry into force of the provisions in question, we can see a slight increase in average wages in the national economy. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Given that the bill will have a positive social impact, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - the Civic Coalition will support this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u409	Thank you, Member. And I invite you to the speaker of Agnieszka Ścigaj, who will present her position on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u410	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz club15 in relation to print no.3599, the amendment of the Act on Minimum Compensation for Work. This is, of course, a social bill. I've written my own interpellations on this matter many times myself. Many of the lower-level workers in schools, not teachers, but those serving, many hospital workers and various health care institutions have made this request. They felt badly hurt by the fact that they were actually working for 30 years, after twenty years, and they received a minimum wage, and they were counted on something that was due to them because it was for years. So the bill needed socially, expected, I'm glad it's being processed. Of course, we could go further and also not include this way, for example. the allowance for working under special conditions, which is indeed also a very important demand, because this allowance is available to people who have a difficult job, and the conditions in which they work often affect their health, so I think it should go in this direction. I particularly address my colleagues here, who are from trade unions. I think that this request should also be taken into account. I just want to point out one important thing. First of all, the fact that the increase in minimum wage, the large increase in the rule of law and justice, which is actually a good solution, as well as the inclusion of an internship allowance or not including it in the minimum wage, will have an impact on the costs of particularly expensive institutions supporting people with disabilities, such as workshops of occupational therapy, environmental self-help homes. At this point in time in these institutions, the wage costs, because specialists work there, reach 90% of the total cost, but I will mention that specialists work there very often for the minimum wage. Unfortunately, there's a large shortage of personnel. If we fail to think about how to strengthen these institutions, then probably - in the course of today's work we have also talked about various systemic solutions to people with disabilities - there will be a problem with the basic, very important link between the workshops for occupational therapy in this system, and there will be no one to take care of people with disabilities in the day-to-day system, because I really do not know a workshop for occupational therapy, which at the moment does not look for people with employment on the labour market, with certain qualifications required by the law. So it has to be taken into account that it is good that salaries are growing, it is good that employees are improving, but it has to be taken into account that such institutions are run by local government units, and it has to be thought ahead of time so that this does not become an obstacle or some problem related to the fact that there will be no one to work in them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u411	Thank you. Mr Krystian Jarubas presented the position of the Polish People's Party Club - Coalition Poland in writing. So, on behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, Mrs Margaret Zwierzan will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u412	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government draft law amending the Law on Minimum Compensation for Work. This draft law aims to exclude the so-called. an internship allowance or a service allowance for years, from the basis of the minimum wage for work. According to the proposed provisions, this allowance will be excluded from the list of remuneration components that are taken into account when calculating the employee's salary compared to the minimum wage. I am pleased that its members voted unanimously in favour of a positive opinion on this proposal during the committee. This is an expected change, especially by the least-earned part of society and by the public sector. Thanks to these regulations, they will on average gain about PLN 200 per month. I agree that the changes made will ensure a more transparent shape of the minimum wage for work, which will translate into a fairer way of paying the lowest paid workers. As indicated in the committee's work, the internship allowance ceases to serve as a reward and recognition for the employee as having long-term work experience. I share the view that the proposed regulations will not only have a positive impact on remuneration in the public sector, but also on employee relations. The new solutions are to enter into force on 1 January 2020, except for transitional provisions which will apply from 1 September 2019. The Free and Solidarni Circle supports the project in its entirety. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u413	Thank you very much. We're going to ask questions. Would any of your messengers and your fellow Members still want to be on the list? I can't see, so I'm closing this list. You are beginning Maria Nowak, Law and Justice. Time - 1 minute. I don't see a Member. In that case, Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u414	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Platform is, of course, in favour of appreciating human work in every possible form. This solution is adopted as a directionally positive solution, important, important, but certainly with certain risks, i.e. the understanding of changes by employers and the understanding of changes by employees. Here is the question: Have you already contacted, or are you going to ask the State Labour Inspection for a broader instruction on this issue, because it seems that the elimination of potential conflicts is important? Second question. Unfortunately, the lowest remuneration is part of the reality of the public, local and government sectors. Do you have any analysis of the extent to which this issue concerns the government sector? Are you going to have impulses for the right resorts, [[♪ The bell ♪]] to take account of these changes in the calculation of amounts from the state budget for the following year for each entity?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u415	Thank you. Mrs Teresa Wargock, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u416	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First of all, I would like to thank you very warmly, because today, as a Member of the Law and Justice, I can tell my constituents very clearly that the requests that are being addressed in the parliamentary office are being heard, transferred to the ministries, and you are analysing them and hence good bill proposals. I'd like to ask you two questions. I received signals mainly from local workers, mostly service workers in organizational units. What is this country-wide issue? How many employees can use this bill? Second line. Do you foresee further exemptions from the calculation of the minimum wage because such demands arise? In order to maintain the incentive function of remuneration, one could go a step further. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would like to ask if there are other demands and reflections in this regard. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u417	Thank you. Mr Paweł Papke, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u418	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Dear Members, The aim, in short, of course, of this law is to extend the catalogue of components of remuneration. Unfortunately, I do not understand why, in view of the short period of entry into force of this law, it could not have been examined earlier so that entrepreneurs would be better prepared for it. In view of the exclusion of the allowance for traineeships from the minimum wage components, labour costs will increase, which will reduce the profits of entrepreneurs. I have a question: Does the government know how much these costs will increase? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u419	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u420	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Raising wages for the least-earned public-sector workers who have long-term work placements can help to stabilise employment in the public sector. Will the proposed change have an impact on private sector workers, in which payment of the allowance for traineeships is foreseen or not in wage regulations? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u421	Thank you. Mr Rafał Mucha, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u422	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This is undoubtedly a desirable and important change, an important bill. We should strive for a fair wage, that should be our goal. In connection with this particular project, I have a question to address my concerns to the Minister. With regard to these changes that we are talking about in the context of the last 4 years and changes in the minimum wage, significant growth, can we find some correlation, especially negative, about economic growth, about the level of GDP? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u423	Thank you. Mr Piotr Cieślinski, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u424	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Undoubtedly, the amendments proposed in the draft law will increase the minimum wage to the amount of PLN 2450 gross. However, according to the analysis of the employers of the Republic of Poland, this amount goes far beyond the estimated economic forecasts. It will have a negative impact on the competitiveness of small companies, especially those in less developed regions, and many will undoubtedly be threatened by bankruptcy. I am a Member of the Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship, which is why I have a question for the Minister. Was this draft law preceded by studies to determine the effects, the impact that the proposed changes will have on the economic situation and in particular on the fate of small and medium-sized enterprises? If so, what institutions carried out this analysis, and what was the result? [[♪ The bell ♪]] In view of the obvious risks I have mentioned, has the government provided for any cover measures for small and medium-sized enterprises that could address this disadvantage? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u425	Thank you. The last question will be asked by Maria Nowak, the Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u426	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! The wages are rising and there is no doubt that this is a very good direction, a very good situation. I am asking a question on behalf of representatives of small and medium-sized enterprises. They asked me very much to ask you this question, especially those who provide services to the Treasury companies. Very often these tenders which were winning were announced two years ago, a year ago, usually such tenders of the Treasury companies for services are for 2, 3 years. For them right now, it's a completely inefficient operation. Does the government predict if the government sees another increase in these salaries... They're all for it to happen, but it would require some kind of renegotiation or some kind of annexation to contracts that before two, [[♪ The bell ♪]] They've negotiated for three years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u427	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Mr Stanisław Szwed, will answer these questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u428	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for this debate and all the clubs for supporting this very good project to exclude the internship allowance from the minimum wage. I think it is worth summing up here today this almost 4-year period of rule of law and justice and what we have done in terms of decent pay, decent working conditions, because minimum wage is an element of this. Today we can safely say that we have made a major breakthrough in this area. On the one hand, compared to 2015, we raised the minimum wage by PLN 500, and we know that in 2020 this amount will be even higher, higher by PLN 200, i.e. the minimum wage will increase by PLN 700, but most importantly, it has been maintained at more than 47% of the average national wage. Keeping this rate so high makes it right for us today to say that we have one of the highest indicators in terms of minimum wage among the European Union countries. That's the first thing. Second thing. We've eliminated the so-called. Subminimum, that is, what was a nightmare especially for young workers, i.e. an internship of up to 5 years. In their case, the minimum salary could be 80%. the minimum rate. Once this change has been introduced, everyone will receive 100%. I think it also shows the way we've been. And a third, very important change in this area. is, of course, the introduction of a minimum hourly rate. This was a breakthrough in the fight against garbage contracts, the application of hourly rates at a level of several zlotys, there were even cases that the hourly rate was 25 gr. It's gone. Thanks to our solutions, it's gone. Today we are introducing another very important element of the change, which is to exclude the internship allowance from the minimum wage. The internship allowance is really about the public sphere, i.e. for private workplaces its significance is small, very small. The internship allowance shall be paid in a few establishments. In the public sphere, there were questions about - as we estimated - it is paid 56 thousand. persons. The cost of this is PLN 139 million in 2020. And we're gonna have to add to that, too. Of course, the proposal of the State budget for 2020 provides the means for this, even if this proposal for a 6% increase in wages in the public sphere provides funding here. But the most important thing, which is also in these regulations, is equal opportunities, because an employee who has a long-term internship, has sometimes been treated by his employer worse than the one who came to work. We estimate that the salary increase for excluding the internship allowance from the minimum wage will be on average PLN 206. There were questions about negotiation, determination. Yes, this law was the subject of work by the Social Dialogue Council. We have positive opinions from both employers and trade unions. There is a resolution of the Social Dialogue Council, which has welcomed this proposal. The project is also - the Member asked - the subject of the opinion of the State Labour Inspection. On the part of the State Labour Inspection, there is no problem, so to speak, with regard to the application of the minimum wage. So, to sum up, we're glad to be able to exclude another element, which is the internship allowance, from the minimum wage today. I think that in the next term of the Sejm we will take further steps to eliminate these ties that are still under minimum wage. There was one point that you spoke about, and it concerned an allowance for work under harmful conditions. This is, I think, the element that should be taken into account as the next element when working on the minimum wage issue. Today we are glad that the minimum wage in Poland is rising, it is kept at a good level, i.e., as I said, 47%. This year it is PLN 2250, next year - PLN 2450. Today the hourly rate is 14.7 PLN, next year - 16 PLN. If we include this exclusion of the internship allowance here, the salary increase will be even higher. Thank you again to all the clubs for supporting this project. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[We thank you for the bill.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u429	Thank you very much, Minister. The rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Urszula Ruseck, also expressed her preference.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u430	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the members of the committee and the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to thank you very much for this bill, which meets social expectations. The exclusion of the internship allowance from the minimum salary was the subject of discussions in our parliamentary offices. This was very expected. Once again, we prove that the Government of Law and Justice is credible that it is implementing its plans and resolutions. As the Minister said, this minimum salary next year will be at the level of PLN 2450. Let me remind you that this means an increase of over 700 PLN over four years of rule of law and justice. The minimum hourly rate has also increased. Let me remind you that in previous governments, the rule of the Civic Platform and the PSL, that was PLN 3. We raised it to more than 14 PLN. And it's conducive to equalizing opportunities. We're going to make sure that the lowest wages are on a decent level. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u431	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u432	Position of the club PSL-KP vis-à-vis the government draft law amending the law on minimum remuneration for work (prints No. 3599) The draft law amending the Law on Minimum Compensation for Work provides for an extension of the list of components of remuneration which are not taken into account when calculating the employee's salary compared with the amount of the minimum salary for the work, the allowance for the internship. The purpose of the introduction of the above mentioned paragraph is to: changes are to ensure a fairer and more transparent shape of the minimum wage for work and to improve the situation of workers receiving the lowest wage. The proposed amendment responds to social expectations. The need to exclude work allowance from the minimum wage category is highlighted by numerous speeches by citizens, trade union representatives and parliamentarians. We are in favour of further work.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u433	Minister! Of course, excluding an internship allowance from the basis for calculating the minimum wage fills in long-standing requests. However, it also has an effect in the form of the prospect of another growth of the basis on which the ZUS contribution of persons engaged in economic activities is calculated. The dynamic increase in minimum wages and salaries in recent years has translated into the increase in these contributions and the increasing fixed costs of micro-entrepreneurs. Is it planned to make changes that would reduce the amount of the minimum contribution or (which would be much more expected) make the contribution dependent on the amount of income achieved in a given month?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u434	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Pension Supply of Police Officers, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Intelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, Central Anti-corruption Office, Border Guard, State Security Service, State Fire Department, Customs and Carboy Service and their families and some other laws (prints No. 3604 and 3643). Mr Grzegorz Adam Wozniak will present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u435	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, I have the honour to present the committee's position on print No 3604. This is a government bill amending the Act on Pension Supply of Police Officers, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Counterintelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, Central Anti-Corruption Office, Border Guard, State Security Service, State Fire Department, Customs and Prison Service and some of their families, which is the result of agreements signed on 8 November 2018 between the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration and the social party represented by representatives of trade unions of service officers under the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration, the Agreement of 21 November 2018 concluded between the Head of National Tax Administration and the Social Party and the Agreement of 19 November 2018 between the Minister of Justice and the Social Party. The bill amending the Act on pension provision for officials and their families and some other laws provides for an amendment of... The main point of the project is the amendment of the article. 18b paragraph. 1, according to which the pension is payable to a duty-free officer who has at least 25 years of service and 55 years of age on the date of his release. The same condition was applied to customs and customs officers. In this amendment of the Act, i.e. in this project, the condition of the age of 55 is removed, it is no longer present. The removal of this condition entitles me to acquire the pension rights of the officials of the various services I have mentioned. In addition, as part of the inter-ministerial arrangements, the draft law was extended to abolish the condition of 55 years of age for professional soldiers. 14 legislative amendments were adopted yesterday during the work of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. The Commission adopted the draft law in its entirety. As rapporteur for the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, I recommend that the High House adopt this draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u436	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Anna Maria Siarkowska will perform on behalf of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u437	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I have the honour to present a position regarding the amendment of the Act on Pension Supply to Police Officers, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Counterintelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, Central Anti-corruption Office, Border Guard, State Security Service, State Fire Department, Customs and Prison Service and their families and some other laws. First of all, I would like to stress that the project is in line with the expectations of the social side. It is the result of separate agreements that were concluded between the social side, trade unions and the government - specifically the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, the Head of National Tax Administration and the Minister of Justice. The project contains two major changes. The first concerns the pension scheme for uniformed services. It abolishes the requirement of 55 years for retired officers after 25 years of service. It is worth mentioning that the change includes all uniform formations that serve as public security services. It will also include professional soldiers. This novel is undoubtedly a great privilege. It is an expression of respect for and appreciation for the difficult service of these officers - often at risk of health and life. It is also an expression of concern for the smooth functioning of our uniformed services. The second amendment introduced by this amendment concerns the possibility of obtaining a financial equivalent for the time of service, i.e. overtime worked out. It's supposed to be normal in every profession. Unfortunately, so far only employees of the State Fire Department have been able to receive a financial equivalent for over-normative working time of 60%. the value of each overtime. The officers of the other formations, even if those subordinate to the MSWiA, could not count on obtaining a financial equivalent. They could only get free time for overtime, that was normal. Unfortunately, there were also situations where this possibility, i.e. taking time off, was only theoretically available. In practice, for example, police officers carry out so many tasks, that in the case of staff shortages, it is simply impossible to receive overtime at a fixed time. And today this amendment corrects this gross injustice, introduces the possibility of paying a 100% overtime equivalent the value of each non-normative working hour. This will, in our view, introduce greater flexibility in uniform services with regard to the choice of form of equivalent for this extra-normative working time. This novel, as I mentioned at the outset, is a consequence of the commitments made by the government in dialogue with the social side, the commitments that we should support as a Sejm. They concern the legitimate demands of the social side representing all uniformed services in our country. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I declare my support for the government's amendment to the law on pension provision for uniformed officers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u438	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Club, Mr Tomasz Szymański will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u439	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill on which we are proceeding today is a consequence of agreements that were concluded in November 2018 as a result of the actions of the officers and representatives of their trade unions, which were fought after a series of protests that we remember exactly. They are de facto concluded after 4 years of rule of law and justice, and we are only dealing with this project at the last session of the Sejm. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a very important change, a very important law concerning officers, those who put their health and lives at risk on a daily basis in order to protect the security, security of Poles, citizens, security of our country. In addition, it is an incentive for them to perform even better their duties. As the rapporteur has said, the law concerns the abolition of the limit of 55 years of age, but also concerns the equivalent of 100 per cent of the service fee. Such a change of rules is necessary as new challenges are often faced by policemen, new tasks, often going beyond statutory obligations. There are situations where the equivalent of free time may not be used by officers because they are still missing officers. Ladies and gentlemen! Nevertheless, with this commitment, this full, consistent action of the union forum of uniformed services, from the fact that they have won this type of law, that it will be consummated, perhaps not entirely, according to the agreements concluded, one should be pleased. We will vote in favour of this law, except that there is one question left: Why are you preparing, ladies and gentlemen, a further project which may be such a whip, or punishment for the unionists, that they have, however, taken the form of a protest, in the form of a law which is to break up this trade union pluralism, as if they were creating another trade union? This concerns the Border Guard and the Police. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u440	Thank you. The remaining part of the time will be used for Mr Marek Wójcik's speech. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u441	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As has already been mentioned here, this project is the result of an agreement between the social side and the government following an unprecedented protest of uniformed services, a protest that has really exceeded all other events, all other protests that have so far been attended by officers. As I have already declared several times from this speaker, we respect the findings of this agreement and therefore the Civic Platform Club - the Civic Coalition will vote in favour of this project. We believe that the regulation of overtime payments is indeed very important. It is good that this solution has been introduced. As far as 55 years of age is concerned, we also accept retirement when we reach 55 years of age and accept it. I would like to stress that, with regard to the changes that have been introduced during the period of the coalition's government, the Platform - PSL, some of these changes will continue to apply, because the 25-year service period was then introduced and this 25-year service period still remains, but it does indeed seem that this 55-year-old retirement period did not stand the test of time. This case needs to be handled in a different way. It is necessary to create such conditions of service for officers to serve as long as possible, because with the current recruitment problems only and only a longer period of service will guarantee us the proper functioning of uniformed services, but this must be done on the basis of incentives for longer service, not in the form of introducing a rigid period in the law. And we're going to postulate that kind of change. We will also certainly support such changes. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this draft law does not fully implement all the arrangements with the social side, because there is a difference in terms of the overtime settlement period, because the State in the act introduced a six-month overtime settlement period, while the agreement sets out, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that this six-month overtime period is only this year, and in principle it is to be quarterly, so we propose a number of amendments to this proposal, which mainly concern the introduction of the quarterly overtime settlement period. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u442	Thank you very much. Correction, right? Mr Bartosz Józwiak, Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u443	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! The bill on which we lean, amending the Act on Pension Supply of Police Officers, ABW, Intelligence Agency, Military Counterintelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, Central Anti-corruption Office, Border Guard, generally all uniformed services, is indeed a project that responds to the arrangements that were taken during the joint meetings and consultations of representatives of the Ministry together with the former Minister of Administration and Home Affairs, Mr Joachim Brudziński and the Federation of Trade Unions of Uniform Services, which were the result of the protest conducted by these services. As we know, the law does not provide for the possibility to strike uniformed services, so it was a form of protest that managed to organize these meetings. Here we should thank both parties for their willingness to talk, because if either party did not want to talk, these talks would not have come to an end and today we would not have this extremely needed law. In fact, this is an element that meets at least part of the commitments that have been made. According to what we heard at the committee's meeting, other elements that have not yet been fully taken into account will be carried out in the course of further work, which is due to the timing and feasibility of their implementation. In fact, there are at least two elements that are problematic, and I will try to talk about them. It is also important in this law that it covers all uniformed services, because negotiations were conducted with a part of uniformed services, whereas it was attached to the military, which is a plus, because many elements so far functioning, firstly, have been quite damaging to uniformed personnel or to those who serve in these uniformed services, but also created problems with recruiting new people into these services, because the labour market is becoming increasingly demanding and certain solutions have been such brakes in relation to the ability to compete in this labour market. Indeed, it is very good that we eliminate the required age of 55 years. We will see what the effect will be, because the scale of this amendment will not be visible until a few years later, but hopefully the police service and the terms of service in the police and other uniformed services will be so attractive that we will not meet with the avalanche of earlier departures. We maintain the requirement of 25 years' work. It is also important that in some way we regulate overtime, which, in principle, could not be replaced by financial compensation in any way so far, and there was a problem with receiving these days off during settlement periods. What's important? One problem is that another was the billing request. The government proposes settlement of six months, uniformed services or unions have called for quarterly accounting. It may be the government's agreement to accept some of the amendments that would solve this case, but there is another matter - the Customs Service case. The Customs Service has practically been moving since the beginning of this term of office. It's a uniform service that's always treated a little per leg like it wasn't a uniform service. In this case, unfortunately, there is a special case included in this amendment for this service, which unfortunately defends, it is not known why, the Ministry of Finance, namely the additional condition for documenting at least 5 years' work on the so-called. the position or the performance of the so-called. the police function. The point is that these people, acting on the border of the state, performed police functions, while at the time of the elimination of the borders some of the borders became internal borders and some shifts took place, so there were problems of a very strange nature, e.g. It's like someone's four and a half months old and missing, so there's trouble. Unfortunately, this law does not change this and it seems that an amendment would have to be introduced that would eliminate it and at the same time align the Customs Service with all other uniformed services. Such amendments will be tabled and supported. I know that the PSL Parliamentary Club - Coalition Poland will certainly make such amendments, because these are only elements for you at really minimum cost, while at the same time equalizing all opportunities and enabling equal treatment of all services. Of course, thank you for the bill and we will support it as much as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u444	Thank you very much. On behalf of the club Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u445	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! It must be pleased to see the fact that there are drafts of laws by which errors are corrected. In this case, this is done at the last possible time, but better late than never. The bill submitted to the High House will certainly be pleased by the officials referred to in the title of the project, because it constitutes, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, the result of the agreement signed on 8 November 2018 between the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration and the Social Party. The relevant agreement was signed 11 days later, i.e. On 19 November 2018, and was concluded between the Minister of Justice and the Social Party. The contracting parties have reached consensus. on many issues that have been disputed so far, but in uniform services of key importance. The fact that the agreements were signed closed down a series of protests and was intended to resolve the conflict and calm the mood. Today it is already known that it was only because of the fulfilment, but only some, of the demands of the social side, where apparently the government was hoping for a lack of memory among the officers in order to meet all the guarantees of this agreement and the promised solutions. However, the government has decided, as the facts prove, to apply the principle that if only part of the demands were fulfilled, then the rest of them either need not be fulfilled, or it is best to forget, for the protests have passed and the time has come for the satisfaction of the officers. Unfortunately, however, this did not happen, and our parliamentary offices were alarmed, or were actually flooded with correspondence asking for parliamentary intervention on the fulfilment of all the requests made and accepted, as stated in the agreements. At the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, I stated that as a Polish parliamentarian listening to the voice of the citizens and, above all, respectful of the principle that contracts should be kept, during the second reading I will place the Marshal in writing with the appropriate amendments, so that the material that is being processed today will not become defective by eliminating the most important and unwritten commitments in this project and the promised commitments. You have to keep your word. I'm keeping it. For the project to be complete, free from confusion about the future of the powers of the service officers referred to therein, it should include comprehensive rather than residual solutions. And such solutions will ensure the stability and stability of staff in the services, and the officers themselves will be freed from uncertainty in such vital problems, as they have been asking for and for many months they have been asking for. The first reading of the project gave the sumpt to a comprehensive, flaw-free regulation of sensitive issues, albeit very important, which must be reflected in the legal act of the statutory rank. In this situation, the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club - Coalition Poland is in favour of directing the government's submission to further work in the parliamentary committees. In your hands, Marshal, I am making appropriate amendments to the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u446	Thank you very much. We proceed to ask questions at this point. Would any of you like to join the list? I don't see any more volunteers. That's why I'm closing this list. You are beginning Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice. You're welcome. Time - 1 minute. I don't see your MP. In that case, Mr Rafał Mucha, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u447	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask the Minister whether the proposed regulation by increasing the attractiveness of the terms of service will reduce the phenomenon, which is severe in some formations, the existing vacancies, and thus whether it will consequently affect the comfort of the officers' work and increase, indeed, the already record-breaking feeling of security by Poles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u448	Thank you. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u449	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is very good that the government is fulfilling its obligations to uniformed services, which it promised them after last year's protests. Why is the Customs Service treated differently in such a arrangement? Why are customs officers or customs officers additionally required to have an internship, at least 5 years of police service? Couldn't it have been predicted before? Did you need protests? But it's nice that the government works, that it fulfills these promises. And praise them for that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u450	Thank you, sir. Before I give the floor to the next Member, I will address the Member from the Polish People's Party Club. Mr President, two amendments are poorly signed. If they are not signed by an authorised person, I will not be able to take them into account. It's not signed. Therefore, this can be done by the end of this point. And now Mr Grzegorz July, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u451	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! This project, of course, is a step in the right direction. It's a step that allows officers to come out face-to-face with all the turbulence that's been going on since last year. This project, which was then concluded, signed, however, has put in place several additional elements, including, among others. this six-month billing period project, which would be only this year, only in the coming years, while in subsequent years there would be three-month settlement periods. Will this project be taken into account? Let me remind you, pacta sunt servanda. Of course, I have no delusions as to why these changes are now. You announced them in 2015. They're being introduced to one of the last sessions of the Sejm, but they're good, too. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let's face it, it's always a step in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u452	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Wójcik, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u453	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask you about the number of overtime hours worked out by the officers of the various formations. That's the number that's already counted in millions of overtime hours. I ask the Minister to provide details of all the formations he supervises and, if possible, other formations which are covered by this law. The issue is important because, according to the provisions of the Act under review today, these overtime worked out so far will be settled not according to the new rules, but according to the old regulations, i.e. the overtime will be granted simply days off. Minister, is there a limit to when these millions of overtime worked out by the officers will simply be returned to them? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u454	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Szymański, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, will ask another question at this point. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u455	Dear Marshal! Minister! The bill under investigation concerns hundreds of thousands of police officers, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Counterintelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, Central Anti-corruption Office, Border Guard, State Security Service, State Fire Department, Customs and Prison Service. My question is this: Why is it that only the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration is the host of this law, since, as I have quoted, we standardise assumptions concerning other sectors, other ministries: the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of National Defence, the Ministry of Justice? Especially our concern applies to customs officers who have been de facto uniformed officers relatively recently, and their trade law, the specificity of this law, is difficult. Why are there no opinions of individual ministries, and why could it simply not be decided over this law within the framework of the joint committees? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u456	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Papke, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u457	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The project assumes the removal of the condition that 55 years of age should be allowed to acquire a pension, while maintaining the condition of 25 years of service and introducing 100% overtime payment from 1 July 2019. And here are my questions, because these are of course good directional changes, but what financial implications for the budget will this change have for the removal of the condition of 55 years of retirement, and we know that they will of course occur with a long delay, and are there analyses of the consequences of this for the pension system, because they are only carried out for the second part, but not the analysis of this age 55? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u458	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski has tabled two further amendments correctly signed, and all three will therefore be submitted for further procession. [[Thank you very much.]] And now I will ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Mr Jarosław Zieliński to answer the questions asked in this item. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u459	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! As the rapporteur said, and as we heard in the club speeches afterwards, this bill is the implementation of agreements between the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration first and the social side, later by the next two ministries, i.e. by the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Finance represented by the head of customs and treasury administration, including the social side, and those departments with trade unions. This is the completion of the agreement in two points. Our agreement, therefore, the MMA agreement, with trade unions being much broader, and those, I think, also concerned other elements, but these two common issues are regulated here. One concerns the abolition of the requirement to complete 55 years of age when obtaining pension rights for those officers who are subject to the new pension scheme, namely those who enter or enter the services covered by the scheme after 31 December 2012, while maintaining only one of these two requirements after the entry into force of the law, i.e. 25 years of service. And the second element concerns the settlement of over-normative service time, so those, commonly referred to as overtime. The agreement of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration with the trade unions covered matters which are already otherwise implemented or will be implemented. The main point of these negotiations - others were important too, but the first one that was facing - were the increase of salaries and these increases, greater than in the Modernization Act, because they were also expected for the time from 1 January 2019 - the first increase, I will remind you, on the basis of the Modernization Act was implemented since 1 January 2017, but these increases are bigger - it was the amount of PLN 655 per officer. These increases were, of course, implemented in this amount on 1 January 2019. Now there are these two other issues. The law in this respect certainly brings regulations favourable to officers, friendly to them, facilitating the chiefs to settle over-normative time of service. But here the possibility remains that the officer will use his time off for overtime worked out, or that he will receive an appropriate equivalent of 100%. the value of each overtime. Today it is regulated differently. We already have 60% in the State Fire Department. The payment for overtime, in the police, in other MMA services is not possible, it is only possible to receive free time. So it seems to me that these two issues should not create negative references, some negative emotions, should be supported by everyone, by the entire House, which I am also asking the opposition to do. I also listen to the voices of the opposition with the highest amazement, both the voice of the PO and PSL. Let's remind you that it was your coalition at the time you were in charge that changed that pension system. It was you who introduced the requirements of 25 years of service and 55 years of age in the new pension system and, most importantly, did not listen to unionists or officers. They protested, they protested in the streets, and you forced these solutions, you didn't sit down. Do you today have the courage and the audacity to judge our agreement and how it is implemented? We, unlike you, sat down at the table and reached an agreement. We keep our word. We fill it out and fill it out. Instead, you didn't talk, you just put in a forceful solution, turning it into a less favourable, unfavorable pension system for officers. So your spells today, your exclamations about keeping your word, sound like a joke. This is actually a joke. It's amazing that you have the audacity, the courage to say something like that. Ladies and gentlemen, one more thread. Quite interesting speeches appeared both in the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and today in the Sejm. Members, Mr Szymanski and Mr Wójcik, spoke quite strongly and clearly about the protests. I thought it was an officer's disease and the use of L4, and you admit it was an organized protest. That's a very interesting phrase. Ladies and gentlemen, if I may say so, you're exposing yourselves right now. We thought the officers were on sick leave, we talked about how to regulate the problems reported by the uniformed services community, and we came to an agreement. I repeat: we keep our words in everything and implement this agreement very consistently. Mr Szymański said something even more interesting. We're gonna talk about this at the next point, and I'm gonna talk more about it later. Namely, he was talking about the fact that trade union pluralism is about the second law, it's some kind of punishment. Mr President, trade union pluralism is not a punishment, trade union pluralism is a value. The union's pluralism is democracy, it's the essence of democracy, it's enshrined in the Constitution. You've been waving the constitution a lot, waving the constitution a lot of times, the text of the constitution. That's where the pluralism is written. You have a mouth full of democratic slogans, and you want a monopoly, you want union monarchy. Pluralism is more democracy than a union monopoly. What do you mean? Just so we're clear, one thing has nothing to do with the other. The agreement with trade unions has been concluded with all the unions that operate. Today is the fact that there are services, union organizations that operate in a pluralistic way, e.g. There are three union organisations in the State Fire Department. In the case of the police we have a trade union monopoly registered in the law, there is one trade union. The Federation of Trade Unions focused all trade unions in these talks: from those services where there is pluralism, and from those where there is no pluralism. Therefore, your thesis that this is some kind of punishment for something is simply a total cosmic absurdity. The pluralism of the union is a postulated value, which must finally be introduced after 30 years of democracy in Poland. It's time to stop with the PRL. The union monopoly is the Polish People's Republic. You want a PRL, you want a continuation of the PRL, and we want a democracy, a normal world, a normal reality. I hope that the High Sejm will pass a law on trade union pluralism, which is no punishment for anyone, against anyone or for anything, but an extension of freedom, freedom of association. But that's what we're gonna talk about in a minute. Another bill will be discussed, and then we will devote time to it. I'm just expressing my amazement. Mr Szymański, once again: trade union pluralism is not a punishment, as you said. It's a value. I would like to address a few of the points that have been formulated during the questioning process. Mr Rafał Mucha of Law and Justice asked whether such regulation would affect vacancies and security. We believe that this regulation, at both points, will increase the attractiveness of service in uniform formations. After all, the pension system, for which we will not require this age of 55 years - which will mean that if someone started early and received a period of 25 years of service at a younger age, he will be able to benefit from pension rights if he makes such a decision, but also, of course, he will be able to work, to continue - is certainly a favourable solution that can encourage them to join the services of those who join them today or consider whether to join them. The same is true of the 100% overtime payment case. This has never happened before, this is an epoch new solution, so to speak, very much needed. We're convinced of him. It's very beneficial. For us, it's obvious to me that it should be, and it hasn't been. You haven't introduced it in eight years, and now you're judging. Will it affect the holidays? We hope that this will improve the attractiveness of the police and all the other uniformed services. Thank you for noticing, Mr President, that today there is indeed a record sense of security and there are record security indicators, those real indicators that are the basis for a sense of security. It means that the police and other services work well, they have good supervision, by the way, because it's all connected, and they have good conditions that we create for them, and that we care about them. No spells saying it's bad are gonna change anything around here. It's just that in recent years it's been really good, as all the data shows. Only those who don't want to see anything can't see it. Mr Stefan Romecki asked why the Customs Service was treated differently, he returned to the issue of these five years of police service, so to be brief. The Customs Service was included in the pension scheme of the uniformed services not so long ago as a result of the judgment of the Constitutional Court. I was the representative of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice before the Constitutional Tribunal when we fought for this law. It was for the first time that the Court ruled that the officers it defined in its judgment had the right to be included in the pension system, but this system came in later and, of course, in a slightly different way concerns certain elements, customs officers rather than officers of those services who were already in that system. The bill was agreed on an inter-ministerial basis. Therefore, by representing the government in the drafting of the bill, I am presenting the agreed provisions and positions of the whole government. Such an arrangement is, such a solution has been written down by the Ministry of Finance and agreed inter-ministerially within the Council of Ministers. Mr Grzegorz July of the PO-KO asked about these six-month or three-month settlement periods. In the agreement reached in our department with the unions, in the agreement on the services of the MMA, there is a statement that this first settlement period will be six months, and as far as the next period is concerned, it is not settled in the agreement itself. We thought it necessary to maintain the principle of the six-month accounting period. Incidentally, I'm not sure that he's bad for the officers. This needs to be considered, because, of course, we still have amendments in front of us at second reading. We will probably be discussing this further, but think about those who are hard-pressing this claim that the three-month settlement is better or is it really better. We will consider this in the discussion, so peaceful, without emotion. Next case. Mr Marek Wójcik of the PO-KO asked about the number of overtime hours until they were returned. I will give you these figures in writing, because they are calculated on average annually and, of course, they are slightly different each year for each service. It's not in my memory, but these are a lot of numbers. The highest numbers are for the police, because it is necessarily the largest formation. There is no period during which they would have to be settled. This is not in the current legislation, and in this law it is again, otherwise we do not regulate it. The overtime so far will be settled in the same way as before, i.e. by giving time off. New overtime, i.e. those that have already been worked out since 1 July this year, will be settled according to new rules and rules, if, of course, the law enters into force, because it is to apply from 1 July. But these overtimes have always increased, sir. They grew up in your day and grow up for ours, that's the problem. The specifics of the service make these overtimes, and the vacancies make them of course even more. Vacations were, Vacations were. There is still an interesting matter with the vacancies, because in the opinion of some media and Members of the opposition, the impression is growing that it is now particularly dramatic about this issue. Well, it's not. In these garrisons, where vacancies are severe, it's more or less the same as it used to be in previous times. The average is about 6%. You can recall the data, I have detailed calculations. In times of government, PO-PSL was no better, and it was also worse. In our period the best was 2016 - 2,3%, those were the lowest vacancies. Now there are garrisons like this. The east ones where there are no vacancies. I mean, in particular, in my province, the garrison of Podlaskie, which is so eager to be judged by some in various kinds of senseless, unfounded attacks. There's practically no vacancies here. There are trace numbers resulting from the personnel movement. There are commands where there really are no vacancies, there are exactly zero. Of course, in the west of Poland it is a little harder, a little worse. The labour market is different, there are trips to the West. And the capital. The capital garrison has the highest rate of vacancies, despite the addition to each job, 480 PLN without 10 gr per job. But these are social conditions. Today we have small unemployment, the smallest in 30 years, which is what we are happy about, but therefore there is more competition in the labour market. That also applies to uniformed services. That's not gonna happen. As far as the financial consequences are concerned... But we do everything we can to fill in these vacancies and the attractiveness of individual services increases. You could say that the interest in police work is growing, although it's not like 10 years ago when there were 10 people in one place. Today there are five people willing to go to one place, but then, when there were 10, they didn't take any more for duty, and you could. You kept it, I mean. It wasn't you, it was the people you were overseeing at the time who kept your vacation in order to use it for other purposes, to patch holes. Now there are no holes at the end of the year. Now the chiefs don't go to the self-government for ribs to get gas money like they used to be in your day. That's not there. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's a fundamental difference between this period and that period. Marshal, I'm almost done. Financial implications. Mr Paweł Papke of the PO-KO asked about the financial consequences. As regards the effects of overtime settlement, they are calculated in the draft law. It's written down. I'm not gonna quote that because it's in the text. On the other hand, the financial consequences of removing the threshold of 55 years of life will be measurable much later. The first officers will benefit from the new system from 1 January 2038 because this applies to those who joined the service after 1 January 2013, and 25 years will have to be added. So these are the future effects, difficult to estimate today. The rest of the information of the bill is contained either in the text or in the impact assessment of the regulation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u460	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Marek Wójcik as corrected, I understand.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u461	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Well, I was amazed to hear you say that there was actually no protest in the fall, but the officers just got sick and went to L4. It wasn't true, the protest lasted for months, it had different forms. In Warsaw there were organized demonstrations of uniformed services. This protest escalated because there were no talks with the officers, so it ended in a completely dramatic phase in which policemen in protest went to L4. These are facts. You're making a bill today. It is very good that this law has been passed to the Sejm and that we will adopt it today, but this is a law which is the result of that protest, a protest in which the officers demanded the fulfilment of the obligations of the Law and Justice of 2015. And about the vacancies. Because holidays in the capital garrison account for more than 11%, and that is a very serious problem. On the western wall, in such voivodships as Zachodniopomorskie or Lubuskie, vacancies account for about 10%. And in these garrisons it's [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's a really big problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u462	Thank you, sir. Okay, Minister, you're welcome, but we're already so short because we're very late.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u463	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Shortly: astonishment for amazement. Very well, sir, but really, as it is written in the old Polish encyclopedia: the horse as it is, everyone can see. Everyone sees how you ruled, what you did. I will repeat this once again: we have sat down in talks with trade unions, difficult conversations, and we have obtained an agreement that we are implementing, and then you led officers to protests and forcefully dictated new pension solutions that were detrimental to these officers. And that's it. On the other hand, with regard to vacancies, there are no vacancies, as you said, of 10% even on the west wall. The mean is 6%. There's been more in your day. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u464	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u465	The amendment of the provisions of the Act leads to the harmonisation of pension rules for all groups of uniformed services, both as regards the conditions for the acquisition of pension rights and the basis for determining the amount of pension benefits. Question: "How will this increase efficiency in the performance of tasks by officers and the ability to appoint people for new posts?"
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u466	Please clarify one point. In the framework of the introduction of the possibility of financial compensation for the performance of tasks in excess of the statutory standard, is there a limit to this solution that would prevent an officer from being overloaded with work above the health-safe standard?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u467	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs in order to present a report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the bill submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the Law on Police, the Law on Border Guard and the Law on Prison Service (prints No 3543 and 3641). I ask Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u468	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, Honourable ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I have the honour to present a report on the draft law which was sent to the Sejm by the President of the Republic of Poland. This is a report by the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the draft law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the Law on Police, the Law on Border Guard and the Law on Prison Service, print No 3543. Ladies and gentlemen! Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 19 June, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for first reading. The Board of Administration and Home Affairs, following its first reading and after considering this draft law at its meeting on 16 July, brings forward: The High Sejm will approve the attached draft law. Ladies and gentlemen! A number of legislative amendments were adopted at the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, on which the President and the Chancellery agreed, and the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration, and on the part of the ladies and gentlemen of Members. These were obvious amendments and were adopted on a consensus basis. In addition, four substantive amendments were adopted. Three amendments, in fact, similar to Article. 1, Article Article 2 and Article 2 3, and related to the situation in which both the Prison Service, the Border Guard and the Police have been given the opportunity to use the authority of a trade union to evaluate documents addressed by the Chief Commandant or by other bodies to the services. And such an opinion should be in favour of prior notice that the trade union wishes to exercise its right of opinion, whether it is a law or other relevant documents. These amendments were also adopted on the basis of full consensus, as well as Amendment 4, which replaced the words before the date of entry into force by the date of entry into force. This amendment concerns Article. 4 and Article 4 6. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank you very much on behalf of myself and the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. I think that here Mr Marek Wójcik, or the current President Bartosz Józwiak, or Mr Sosnowski, acknowledge that at the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs we held a broad, long discussion, all trade unions representing all the services concerned by this law were invited and that discussion was not limited to any extent. Both the President's Office and the Minister for the Interior - the Minister for the Interior - represented Minister Jarosław Zieliński - answered all the questions that were addressed. The Commission also took advantage of the possibility to consult the Sejm Analysis Office. The opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office is available on the Internet and was also available at the meeting of the Board of Administration and Home Affairs. This opinion is clearly positive. Besides, it can't be any different because it's taken directly from the Constitution. One thing I would like to mention as rapporteur is the request made by a group of Members for a public hearing which did not gain the approval of the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u469	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first position of the Parliamentary Club, the Law and Justice Club will be presented by Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u470	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! As a representative of the largest parliamentary club, Law and Justice, I would like to thank you once again for the discussion that took place at the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. I would like to address thanks primarily to the trade unions present at the committee meeting. I would like to stress that at the committee meeting there were no critical words from any club about the functioning of trade unions in uniform services. Because neither was the essence of the President's project, nor was it included in any way in the government's position, nor was it the intention of the Law and Justice Club. The discussion was about fundamental things. The question is whether the Constitution of the Republic of Poland and, in particular, the Art. 12 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland, which ensures the freedom to create and operate trade unions and socio-professional organisations, associations or civic movements, should be respected or not. Also art. 32 of the Constitution explicitly states that everyone is equal to the law and has the right to equal treatment, the creation of trade unions. And here is the article already cited. 59 Constitution, which ensures freedom of association in trade unions, socio-professional organisations. Ladies and gentlemen! Constitution of the Republic of Poland, Art. 59 (1) (a) 4 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland provides that the scope of freedom of association in trade unions may be subject to only such restrictions as are permitted by binding Polish Republic of international agreements. Here, ladies and gentlemen, we do not have such a case that the Republic of Poland is bound by international agreements which impose restrictions on the possibility of establishing trade unions, and therefore in fulfilling the provisions of the Constitution, I think that we should all recognise on a consensus basis that such trade unions in uniform services, unless the law provides otherwise - because there are of course specific services, counter-intelligence services, intelligence services, Central Anti-corruption Office, where the law directly prohibits the functioning of trade unions... Where it is possible to establish trade unions, there are no substantive grounds to prohibit the creation of more than one trade union. Ladies and gentlemen, these arguments that were made during the discussion, about the fact that there could be chaos in the services, some internal disputes, or some dispute between the workers, in my opinion there is no factual coverage, does not refer to reality. We have, for example. in the State Fire Department more than one trade union, and the State Fire Department is known for its professionalism, good work. The trade unions that exist there, if I remember: three, but there may be more, do not restrict either the professionalism or the professional activities of the State Fire Department, nor hinder discussions between, for example, in any way. trade unionists and the Chief of State Fire Department. In my opinion, this is a serious abuse if someone thinks that the existence of one, two or three trade unions could cause some disturbance in the operation of these uniformed services, such as the police or the Border Guard. Ladies and gentlemen! I will appeal to the words of Minister Jarosław Zieliński from a dozen minutes ago. Indeed, recently in Poland we have had a powerful discussion between the opposition and the ruling coalition. The opposition claims that there are constitutional restrictions, and there are t-shirts with the inscription "Constitution" and posters with the inscription "Constitution." The Constitution explicitly states that freedom of trade unions is ensured in Poland. Also in neighbouring countries such trade unions exist, do not cause any chaos. I will tell you more, on the contrary, anyone who wants to create unions in uniform services will definitely have to do hard work, will have to try to get unionists into their organization, and this competition will have a positive impact. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm sure it won't be easy, and I absolutely don't anticipate any chaos, growth, the creation of an incredible amount, dozens of trade unions. The Law and Justice Club fully supports the President's draft law. We thank the President for paying attention to such an important matter, and this project was addressed to the Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u471	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Dorota Rutkowska will speak first on behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition for the Parliamentary Club. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u472	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We have a very different opinion. The President's project has been disrupting the order of the union, which has been operating in the Polish uniform service for 30 years. This union monopoly, which Minister Zieliński asked to mention in the previous point, is, Minister, not a PRL, that is the result of the August agreements. It was then that the unions, the contemporary Solidarity, considered that such a model for uniformed services would be the best. You, as the minister under these services, at least the police and border guards, should know very well that these are armed services, in which service relations rely on availability and subjection, and this significantly limits union freedoms in these services. Unity, in other words, union monism, is in a way compensation for restricting civil liberties in the Police, Border Guard, Prison Service, which do not have the right to strike, but also, which is much more important, the provision on the functioning of only one relationship in each of these services protects them from politicisation. For 30 years, the Constitutional Tribunal, no court, no international organisation has criticised this restriction, no officers protested, no change was demanded. As you can see, union monism has passed the test for three decades and has survived many options governing it. What are you doing, Mr. President? At the request of the NSZZ.Solidarity, it prepares a draft act on trade pluralism. It is worth noting, however, that the President of this bill exposes uniformed services to civilian trade unions that do not conceal their political beliefs. After all, solidarity is no longer an independent and self-governing trade union, it has repeatedly given evidence of its sympathy to the ruling PiS and such party outbuildings can always be created. Two years ago, during the amendment of the Police Act, the proposal to liquidate federal monarchy in the services was not supported. It was criticized by trade unionists, criticized by the heads of service, criticized by Beat Kemp, Patrick Jak, but also Presidential Minister Andrzej Dera, who at the time claimed that trade union pluralism in uniform services could lead to radicalisation of actions undertaken by competing unions and difficulties in the direction of these institutions. What suddenly happened after two years that the President's side changed its mind? Unfortunately, Minister Paweł Mucha could not answer this question yesterday at the first reading of the bill at the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. We can only guess that this is retaliation for last year's police protest. The Minister informed us that the project was consulted with the Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Justice and in a limited form with the social side. We did not know why there was no broad, fair and comprehensive debate in social dialogue. The President is a strong advocate of dialogue. I found this brochure in my mailbox. This is a brochure of the Social Dialogue Council, where I read that there is no Independent without social dialogue. There was no dialogue on such an important issue. Our request for a public hearing has also not received the approval of the PiS Members. (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Indeed, this discussion at yesterday's committee meeting was exciting, but it is merely proof that such a discussion and such debate were lacking at the stage of the drafting of the bill. I don't know if the President is aware of the responsibility he's taking on by reporting this project. The change is irreversible. I was talking about it yesterday at the committee meeting. The reform can be undone, but the once introduced pluralism cannot be undone. And one more thing. Unfortunately, the project leads to a reduction in the rights of union police officers and border guards, but also of the Prison Service, which is, Mr President, unconstitutional. Given the high probability of politicising uniformed services, which leads to a reduction in public confidence in these services, lack of care [[♪ The bell ♪]] at the drafting stage and restriction of trade union rights, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - Civic Coalition cannot support the project. Mrs. Marshal! I am requesting that this draft be rejected in its entirety and that amendments be made. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u473	Thank you, Member. Of course, you've run out of time for the Civic Platform. I would therefore like to ask the representative of the Poselski Kukiz Club15 of Mr Bartosz Józwiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u474	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! We are proceeding with another law on uniformed services, only this time it concerns a smaller scope. It is a law on amending the Police Act, the Border Guard Act and the Prison Service Act. It is about three uniformed services, which so far actually had only one professional union. This law, whose designer you are the President of the Republic of Poland, changes this situation and is to introduce the so-called. the trade union pluralism or the multitude of unions operating among these uniform formations. This discussion is not about whether we want to go back to the Polish People's Republic or not, Minister, because if I were malicious, I would say that returning to 4 years of high school and 8 years of elementary school is also a return to the Polish People's Republic, and this is a good bill, a good change, so I won't say it. So I don't think that's a problem. The problem here is what are the profits for these uniformed services from the introduction of the Land pluralism and what could be the losses. And these sentences are divided. At the committee meeting it clearly sounded, and Minister Mucha stressed that too. We're talking about whether we're in favour of one or the other. We need to show the pros and cons of these solutions. Minister Zieliński said pluralism is always a value. I agree, but it seems to me that in certain situations pluralism, as in certain situations democracy, does not have to be this value. Democratic governance on the battlefield would be fatal. And we're not talking about it being fulfilled everywhere. It's not some god that has to come true everywhere. This must always be adapted to what we want to achieve and in what system, within which element we operate. We believe that these mono-relations operating in the police, Border Guard and Prison Service structures, whose operation was limited only to specific individuals, so-called. trade unions, which do not have their headquarters on the outside, which could also bring together workers from other industries, were a safe element. Why is there such a difference between the Fire Department and the police? It shows what was said at the committee meeting yesterday, also from a tradition. But let us remember that the police or border guards, especially the police, are individuals that may be used by the state to limit certain elements of our civil rights, to apply direct coercion, to bring order to the streets. And what if such a relationship, which is to be a super-branch union, announces a strike? What happens if the miners strike, and the same union includes cops who guard the Seym Buildings? This is the conflict that may be part of the politicisation of a certain game, because relationships that are multi-branch, play on the political stage, are to some extent politicized, and this is the basic problem that we are reporting. We have great doubts as to whether this pluralism is good in this particular case. Do we have trade unions in the army? They're not there at all. Is the army functioning badly? No, and it doesn't seem necessary for relationships to be there. This is to some extent a decision to operate as part of a certain service. We think that in this case, the solution that is in force is more of a safety valve than the one that this law introduces. That's not what you think. I'm sure this change will be made. What the result will be, we'll see, we'll see. We do not have a majority that could block this change, but it is difficult for us to agree, and that is why we make such comments because this concern is crucial to us. But there is one more thing in this law, namely that there is a form of exclusion, because these trade unions will not be able to include, for example, executives appointed as executives. That's another problem. Again, it is not that for everyone the constitutional condition of association is fulfilled. Not for them. They won't have it guaranteed. And one last thing. We could rely on a constitution. I don't speak, it's an element that can be extracted from the constitution and it fits there. The problem is that the current provisions and regulations also fall within the framework of the Constitution. They don't break the constitution. There are no such conclusions, there are no judgments that show that they are violating the constitution or international rules. Abroad, this is very different. There are countries where there's union pluralism, and there's countries where there's no union pluralism. There are countries where police officers have the right to strike. We don't have that right either. In fact, we need to match it to our situation, match it to the service. This bill doesn't convince us. And that's what we think. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u475	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland will be presented by Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski to the High House. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u476	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! High Izbo! A hot period of electoral campaign is approaching the Polish parliament, so not only various social groups, but also police officers, Border Guards and Prison Service in the end, it is necessary to serve supposedly pluralistic and democratic solutions. The deliberations of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on 16 July this year, turbulent, albeit above all substance, have illustrated both to us, Members and representatives of the police community, Border Guard and Prison Service, how far the arguments in the robes of the defenders of oppressed officers can be misleading, and even cause, in the case of the adoption of the draft law currently under review, the competition of trade unions, which we are currently not dealing with in uniform services. One thing's for sure, I'm sure they'll agree to the principle. effective union activities. The banner under which the President came out with his own initiative is the constitution, freedom, pluralism and full freedom. It is quite a catchy smoke screen, for every civilised state with a well-established democracy, like the pupils of the eye, protects the army, police and special services from any politicisation, using far-reaching sharpenings in this respect, so as not to create an impression of sympathising officers of these services with any political orientation. The current normative solutions have been in place since the beginning of the Law on Police, the Law on Border Guard and the Law on Prison Service. These solutions have been successful in practice and have confirmed that the unity of the Land movement in uniform services secures their apoliticity and social order. The attempt to depart from this normative tradition for the sake of trade pluralism, which has never functioned in these uniformed services, once again undermines the legitimacy of the legislator, in line with the principle of decent legislation. As a representative of the opposition group, a private Member and a citizen, I ask how a concrete and realistic revision of the law will significantly improve the security of citizens. I also ask whether from 2015 up to now uniformed officials have applied for trade union pluralism. The High Sejm cannot agree with the statement that there is a trade union monopoly in the current legal state, because the principle of freedom in the choice of representation of its authorities by a trade union already in itself contradicts any interference by both the superiors of trade union officers and the state itself. The time limit does not allow me to refer to Convention 87 itself, nor to the position of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration. However, with all responsibility from this stand, I state that the protection of the rights of officers exists and must exist. It should be strong, but not chaotic, for strength is always in unity. It is this unity that wants to be destroyed under the pretence of care for freedom, alleged democracy and alleged trade union pluralism, without regard to the consequences and consequences which, as I have already mentioned, can have a tragic impact on the internal security of the state and its citizens as a result of trade union rivalry. Hence, it is the responsibility to guarantee the proper execution of orders, orders by uniformed officers working for the Polish State, serving all citizens and in an equal way to ensure their safety, of which both servants and new officers should know and know. In view of these arguments, feeling responsible for the country's order and order, as the legislator of the Polish Parliamentary Club People's Party - Coalition Poland cannot support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[What about the PSP, then?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u477	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to inform the High House that nine parliamentarians have joined the questions. I'm closing the list. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. The first question will be asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u478	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! For starters, some data. In the police, the union is over 50%. The average in the European Union is around 24%. The relationship in Poland is 11%. The biggest trade union is Solidarity. If you do not think about the fact that in Poland we have such a tragic level of union, and you do not combine this with the political commitment of the Solidarity on the side of Law and Justice, it seems that you simply have some impure intentions. If we are dealing with a situation in which the largest trade union cannot convince citizens, as it is in other countries, even the European Union, it means that it is not fighting for workers' rights, but for political issues. I am firmly convinced that this bill is aimed at politicising the police, the Border Guard and the Prison Service. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I must say, ladies and gentlemen, that this law must be rejected at this reading, without providing the tool that is precisely policy, in the services that are responsible for the security of the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u479	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Rafał Mucha, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u480	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Like the vast majority of Poles, I have a great deal of respect for my ministry and relationships. This respect stems from the belief that employees, service officers know what duty it is, what it means to carry out tasks and follow orders. I have no doubt that the trade union pluralism of this sense of duty, as well as our security resulting from it, will not compromise. If we were to accept the logic that was presented in this room, we could say that since two relationships are worse than one, then probably three are worse than two, so maybe we should eliminate the relationship at all, and it'll be even safer than it is now. This is ridiculous thinking. In view of the fact that no convention forces us to have union monism in our services, I would like to ask you a question. How many examples are there in Europe, [[♪ The bell ♪]] when it comes to trade union pluralism in the services? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u481	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u482	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Will the proposals for trade union activities set out in the draft law increase its efficiency? Perhaps this is not about trying to introduce freedom of association in many trade unions, but merely about fulfilling the needs of one trade union - NSZZ.Solidarity - as I am writing to the Regional Board of the NSZZF and Prison Workers in Koszalin, which strongly and firmly opposes the actions undertaken by the NSZZ.Solidarity to amend the Prison Service Act and the Police and Border Guard Act concerning the extension of the law of Prison Service officers, Police and Border Guard in the field of association in trade unions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u483	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz July, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u484	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I would like to refer to what you said about the Polish People's Republic that there was a union monarchy at the time. It's true, but it's only one side of the coin, because the other, and you know it, was just a close relationship with the ruling party. This was the primary objective, and that is why free, independent and self-governing trade unions were demanded at the time. Minister! I am a relatively short-term Member, and I trust people, so I hope you're voicing that there are no bad intentions for building any more relationships here. Isn't the point of this is that relationships should look at the interests of employees in the case of governments of every authority? If, Minister, I heard on the committee during the caucus talks such statements that if he supports you, I do not know, the defender, it is us Prox that he is here. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Somebody named Charles. The cannon-szyński who took off... This is the way to nowhere, Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u485	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Wójcik, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u486	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Because the possibility of reducing union activities in police-type uniforms results, among other things. from the International Labour Organisation Convention adopted 70 years ago and is not unique. These are restrictions that exist in many countries, moreover, in Poland so far there has been only one trade union in the Police and Border Guard. These relationships functioned well, which is best demonstrated by the degree of union in the police - it exceeds 50%. It is therefore appropriate to ask what happened that suddenly after 30 years you decided to break up a system that actually worked well. Until now, trade unions in the Police or Border Guard have been a demanding partner for each government. Why are you now, at the end of your term, destroying something that has worked well for the last 30 years? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Indeed, as Mr Czartoryski said, at the committee meeting no one was able to say a bad word about the existing relationships that exist in the police and the Border Guard. Why are you guys ruining this now? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u487	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Dorota Rutkowska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u488	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! In the explanatory memorandum of the bill, I found nowhere to explain why the rights of union police officers and border guards serving as appointed officers and appointed as directors, deputy and warden are being restricted, while in the Prison Service serving as appointed officers. These officers will not be able to perform their duties in relationships and will not be protected under Article. 32 trade union laws. Second question: Why didn't you take advantage of the opportunity to have a fair debate within the Social Dialogue Council? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u489	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u490	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask you to clarify a certain question, namely: What is the reason for the proposed wording of the amended rules in such a way that the release from the service of a police officer who committed a crime, if it is obvious, requires the opinion of a union organisation? So the question here is whether such a form of regulation can lead, among others. to disclose classified information from the investigation to persons who should not receive this information. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u491	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mosiński, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u492	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the opposition: Are you supporting a trade union monopoly or trade union pluralism? [[It was worth listening to.]] You support, respectable opposition, anti-law... [[Voice from the room: These are not questions to the opposition.]] ...international or are you supporting solutions that are compatible with international law? So what are you afraid of? I ask Members of the Platform as well as the Modern Platform as well as the PSL. What are you afraid of defending this union monopoly? Are you defending the interests of one union group? The purpose of trade union pluralism in accordance with the Constitution is to allow access to each trade union headquarters and not just one trade union. This is defending the PRL. I do not use the language of the NSZZ police headquarters, but this is the language of the Polish People's Republic, which you use in unfair defense. Thank you, Mr President, for this initiative, and thank you to the Minister for articulating, [[♪ The bell ♪]] also in the context of international law, what this is all about. It's time for trade union pluralism, not a monopoly, as to say, certain trade union agreements and arrangements. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u493	Thank you very much, sir. And the last question will be asked by Mr Paweł Papke, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u494	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Two years ago, the President's Office, in the person of Minister Dera, criticized the introduction of federal pluralism in uniform services. The fact is, the NSZZ police officers own 50%. Officers. And then suddenly the project was created at the request of the NSZZ.Solidarity. What was the president's motive for following the suggestions of one civil union to destroy a well-functioning union system in three departments: the Police, the Prison Service and the Border Guard? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u495	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. On behalf of the Government, you are asking for the floor of Minister Jarosław Zieliński, State Secretary at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u496	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to thank the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Andrzej Duda, for this initiative. This is a very important, necessary and expected legislative initiative by many officials. I don't understand or understand, but maybe I don't know if it's right to call it... You are surrounded by Members of the opposition, not to mention what is really going on. So if we were to accept with good faith what we hear here, we could say that this is amazing logic. Strange logic, because on the one hand you talk about democracy, about freedom, waving the constitution, waving it, and on the other hand there is no initiative that extends the freedom of association enshrined in the Constitution in the article. 12 and 59, as well as in the Trade Union Act, in Article. 1. Then you're against it. These arguments, which the opposition is using, could indeed have led to the conclusion that one of the Members of Law and Justice spoke of, namely, that it should have been, if you had listened to your arguments, to abolish the right of union officials in general. Because that's what these arguments lead to. But that's not the conclusion you're making. Put it very clearly and clearly - then you will have against each other these monopolistic trade unions you are defending today. Put it down because it's really the consequence of what we hear here. We consider as a government, as a camp of Law and Justice, the United Right, that if solutions to allow the functioning of trade unions in uniform formations are adopted, and we do not question that, there is no justification for it, the least reason for maintaining a situation where officers can only be associated in this one established trade union. One of the Members of the opposition asked if there were any expectations, requests for freedom of association in other trade unions. They were of course, and it was not very numerous, they were directed during these four years, when we were responsible for the state, there were asked questions, there were requests for clarification, how it is that after 30 years of sovereign democratic Poland is maintained some anachronistic solution, actually from the Polish People's Republic. One trade union, and he's the only one to belong to. If you want to be part of this relationship. And if you want to belong, but to some other relationship that could arise, you can't. This is something that cannot be intellectually defended either by the Constitution or by the democratic principles. It's just some kind of anachronism. It is possible to ask a different question than today's Members of the opposition do, because you are asking the question of what happened that we are now in favour of this solution. And the question could be reversed: What happened over a period of almost 30 years that this anachronistic solution was maintained? Why was that? What was the basis for such a solution? Today, using such twisted arguments, false things in fact - you know that these are false arguments - in fact you are saying so much. And that's the truth about this situation. It is in your political interest to maintain the current status quo. Now the question that arises, which concerns this argument, is that it has been repeated that trade union pluralism leads to politicisation. Ladies and gentlemen, nothing more absurd. Politics can lead to a trade union monopoly, because if this relationship has a certain political position, it will only be so, and if there is a trade union pluralism, if there is such a fear that it may be politically oriented, then one relationship will be so oriented, the other, the third one will be so different and there will be some greater diversity of these attitudes and it will not threaten what you are talking about, or politicisation, or at least one such attitude in one direction, one way or another. On the contrary, this solution will provide better guarantees that actually no one, using the Land monopoly, will be able to politicise this plane in uniform services. The union pluralism isn't against anyone. I would like to make it very clear that he is not against the current trade unions. Of course, they defend themselves against pluralism, because for them it is more convenient when they are the only ones on stage. Everyone probably wants to be the only one on stage. But it's not that good. Others do, and they have the same rights. Therefore, it must be agreed that the trade union pluralism really, once again, means more democracy than union monism, trade union monopoly, more trade union choice, and the possibility of creating new trade unions. This is more democracy and freedom, that is in line with the existing constitution that you are waving and to which you manifest such attachment. The opposite solutions are unfortunately - Mr Józwiak, I must repeat this to you again, but I think you are no longer here - something that resembles solutions from the times of the Polish People's Republic or the post-PRL, and if you prefer, it may be so. This seems to be one thing, as it is a continuation. In this connection, the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, whom I have the honour to represent in the work on this law, adopted a position in which it shares the arguments underlying the preparation of the presidential bill and welcomes this proposal, and I want to make this very clear. I am convinced that when officers are given the opportunity to form other trade unions in the Police or Border Guard, nothing will happen because of this. I do not know when, at what rate and at what time, other trade unions will eventually be formed. This is a decision of those concerned, not ours, but this possibility must be created for them, because maintaining the present state of affairs is absolutely irrational. It is surprising that such anachronistic and actually sick solution has been functioning for so many years. Again, there were postulates, not so individual. On the contrary, they flowed from different directions, and there were a lot of them from officers, especially the police, to give them a chance to form other trade unions. Of course, we understand the arguments of relationships, which are the only ones in the police or the Border Guard who want to maintain the current state of affairs. The coalition in opposition, or today's opposition, uses the same arguments. It can therefore be said that it is in favour of what the monopolistic trade unions are for today. I repeat for the second time, this is not a solution against anyone, because this is an extension of the field of freedom, freedom and democracy. With regard to the topic referred to here relating to restrictions on persons acting as appointments or appointments, it is so obvious that there is nothing to think about. You can't be in two roles at the same time, you can't just negotiate with each other, you can't be an employer and you can't represent employees or functionaries, service users, trade unions. You can't be in two roles at the same time, you can only be in one. Therefore, the commandant cannot be a union activist and yet a functionary. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an absurd solution that does not stick to logic and does not withstand criticism of sound reason. Hence the limitations, but only those. On the other hand, people without this collision will have an open path to association in trade unions, whether present or future ones, which the officers themselves will choose to choose. And one more thing. In fact, there are three trade unions in the State Fire Department, and nobody cares. This is a uniform service that works very well. If someone thinks or suggests, and there have been such attempts, that pluralism will lead to disputes, that it will be more difficult to manage uniform formations, then when there were negotiations on difficult cases, which were often the case, the social side of the fire department was the first to present an agreed position between the three unions on the matter. May I? Yes, you can. This situation doesn't bother anyone or anything. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say once again that this solution must be carried out in my opinion and in my opinion of the Government of Law and Justice. It has nothing to do with any other matter that we discuss in other laws, that is a separate, autonomous matter, an autonomous problem that needs to be solved. I thank President Andrzej Duda once again for the legislative initiative. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u497	Thank you very much, Minister. Finally, Minister Paweł Mucha asked for the floor of the Deputy Head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u498	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! High Izbo! I would briefly like to comment on those comments which were made here in the course of discussions in the framework of the club statements, as well as on the questions of your fellow Members, although there is little to be completed after the correct statement by Minister Jarosław Zieliński. The first thing that should be highlighted in its entirety is the argument raised in the legal sense. Constitution of the Republic of Poland in art. 59 is the freedom of the union coalition, so the trade union pluralism is the fundamental value to which the President of the Republic of Poland, Andrzej Duda, referred to the draft law here. It is also clear that the solutions proposed in this Act are in line with international law, as cited here under International Labour Organisation Convention 87. You have not paid attention to this, and I am talking about critical voices here, that if we also read into the recommendations of the Committee on Freedom of Union operating at the International Labour Organisation, it is given as a positive model as far as possible taking into account union demands and freedom of union coalition to interpret these rules in such a way as to ensure that freedom. Thus, on the one hand, we are talking about the fact that it may be acceptable in the police or in the military service to exclude in general the possibility of a trade union, but on the other hand, the Committee on Freedom of Union speaks of the fact that we prefer such solutions as appear in legislation. And here was the question from you about what kind of European countries they are. We have unionism in Norway, France, Germany, the Czech Republic, we also have, according to my memory, Belgium. It cannot be said that these countries do not care for their safety and that the argument of the proper nature that state security is in any way threatened by the introduction of trade union pluralism is completely rejected. No. Let me put it this way: I think that the state, by expressing itself in a manner perhaps unintentionally, that the introduction of the Land pluralism could in any way serve to politicise, is showing itself, on the one hand, that there is no full knowledge of the current legislation, because no one changes the rules. The provisions of the Police Act explicitly state that a policeman is apolitical and is prohibited from belonging to political parties. No one touches it, it's not subject to any change. On the other hand, the argument that the union in a given trade union will be politicalised is absolutely incorrect, and already completely wrong, and in my opinion the insults to Polish police officers are appeals to the fact that if a police officer is confronted with an order given, he will analyse the situation depending on what group, from which trade union he is protesting. No. First of all, you have to say this: Police today, Border Guard, Prison Service are fully professional. I have confidence in the professionalism of the services supervised by the Minister, by the Ministry or in the case of the Prison Service - the Ministry of Justice, I do not see any threats here. If I were to continue this line of reasoning in terms of confederation in a particular trade union, no one would ever raise such a charge. If the union activists who are Confederated within the Trade Union Forum were protesting, and it is in the Trade Union Forum that these trade union organisations are today the only ones for the Police or Border Guard, then no one has ever made such a plea. The police have always maintained professionalism as to whether they protested the "Solidarity," OPZZ, or whether they protested the Trade Union Forum. I believe that it is very unfair and unfair to refer to such arguments, because we have a very high level of trust in the Polish Police, citizens of the Republic have a very high level of trust, because this is due to the professionalism of people who serve the Republic of Poland there, ensuring the security of the state and the security of citizens. I am convinced that these comments are simply incorrect, and I do not share this argument at all, so there is no threat of destabilisation, no threat to the security of the state. The question was, whose business is this bill? Of course, it's in the interest of officers, police officers, border guards or prison services. It is not a predictive argument about the level of trust in the functioning of a trade union, a high level of unionisation in a monopolistic situation. After all, this is logical, it follows from the logical reasoning that if we are dealing with one single trade union within a given structure, then the level of binding in this relationship will be higher compared to the overall level of binding. On the other hand, no one denies the activities of existing trade unions. In my opinion, the argument regarding the use of the concept of civil trade unions is quite incorrect. What do you mean, civil unions? Today we have one single trade union that functions as NSZZ Police officers or as regards the structure of the Border Guard or the Prison Service. If we change the bill, there'll be constables, border guards or prison officers back there. And this relationship within the meaning of the State will no longer be civil in the sense that they will be there only within the union organization just the people serving in a given formation, the law has been constructed so. There was an argument here regarding the State Fire Department, but please pay attention to the National Tax Administration. Where we have customs and treasury services, today we have union pluralism. And there are no charges in terms of the functioning of the State Fire Department, where citizens' confidence is enormous, and rightly so, because this full professionalism of action can be seen every day. But similarly, there are no threats that have come out in the course of a formation such as the KAS, where the service operates on similar principles as the Border Guard or the police. So I find this argument completely unorthodox. You asked me in whose interest. I answer: in the interests of officers, ordinary police officers who want to have the right to choose a trade union to which they belong. With regard to issues related to those who have made such a request, there has been a social side. This was where the voices fell, which I regret to hear, disappointing the Independent Self-Governmental Trade Union.Solidarity. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that Members have the right to formulate their assessments, to have critical assessments, but it is not acceptable to dissuade one of the organisations that is representative, which operates within the Council of Social Dialogue, which brings together thousands of trade unionists with very different political views, who are there on the basis of the Trade Union Act. And that has to be emphasized. However, it is not that the debate was merely about solidarity in favour of trade union pluralism, because if you reach the position of OPZZ, then the OPZZ in writing when the trade union pluralism was first debated in this House, he also advocated the principle of trade union pluralism. The opposite can be said: from the three representative trade union centres, which are the "Solidarity', the OPZZ and the Trade Union Forum, the only one who is critical of this draft law is the Trade Union Forum in which the trade unions which today operate on the basis of the federal monarchy are confederated. That's the real picture of things when it comes to this case. I have stressed here that the apoliticality of the officers determines that there are no risks associated with politicisation by the introduction of the Land pluralism. The questions were whether President Andrzej Duda had changed his mind. I do not know any statements by the President of the Republic of Poland in which he would speak in favour of the federal monarchy in particular with regard to the Police, Border Guard or Prison Service. You must also distinguish opinions, comments, statements of high officials of the President's Office or of the President's advisers from statements of the President of the Republic of Poland. Our role is serviceable, but no statement by the President in which he would support union monism, I do not know, so to make an argument that we have changed our mind... The question is why this change is happening now. Ladies and gentlemen, the Constitution of the Republic of Poland grants the President the right to speak with a legislative initiative. One might ask why such an initiative did not appear earlier. I do not know, this is a question to the presidents who have served in earlier periods, these postulates may not have appeared, but when the post came to President Andrzej Duda's Chancellery during the period of office, he considered that this is an appropriate initiative, responds to the needs of the officers, is advocated by the social side, falls absolutely within the limits of the law and has no contraindications to implement it, because this is precisely the fulfilment of the constitutional standard of the article. 59, the initiative is under discussion by the High House. Was there no dialogue in this matter? It is quite wrong to say that, in this situation concerning this law, the President has not consulted whether he has conducted a broad social dialogue. There has been a direct meeting with Dorota Gardias, who has a double role today: she is the President of the Social Dialogue Council, but she is also the President of the Trade Union Forum, where they are associated, the three monopolistic unions we are talking about. That's the kind of meeting that happened. Moreover, a few days ago, the president invited the representatives of the Social Dialogue Council, who are sitting in the bureau, to speak at this meeting. That was the discussion. At my invitation immediately after receiving the letter from President Rafał Jankowski, who requested this, also serving as a double chairman of the union of union of uniformed workers, but also the chairman of the NSZZ Police officers, a meeting was held with the representatives of the Border Guard, the Prison Service, the Solidarity Service. This dialogue also took place earlier in discussions, which were either in the RDS forum, the RDS bureau or also in the relevant subcommittee chaired by Mr Rafał Jankowski, so the matter was absolutely discussed many times. With regard to issues relating to sound legislation, all standards of fair legislation have been preserved here. Such a wording on the submission of any objections in the legislative sense to this draft law is completely incorrect. Contrary to what has been said, we claim that the justification contains elements which are related to the exclusion from union protection. Please note paragraphs 7 and 8 of the statement of reasons, because there was such a charge that the statement of reasons does not refer to this issue, and it is the opposite, it is directly stated in the statement of reasons of the law. Moreover, with regard to the issues related to the exclusion from trade union protection, the question has been raised as to why such regulation concerning persons in management positions. We have been guided by the interests of the state, the security of the state, and this is also a clear reference to these regulations, which are now contained in the Law on the State Fire Service, the mapping of these solutions from this law, and certainly these solutions will work out in practice, and the priority is to balance constitutional values. The main element is ensuring the security of the state and citizens. There's been a question of protection as to classified information. We in no way interfere in this sphere. There is no interference with the rules on the protection of classified information. It's all up to date. I am fully convinced that this is a proposal of good, thoughtful, in the interest of Polish police officers, Border Guard and Prison Service, presented by President Andrzej Duda after a thorough examination of all arguments. The proposal supported by the social side, the proposal worked out jointly, for which I thank you very warmly, in cooperation with the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration and the Ministry of Justice, and such a proposal, which refers precisely to the ideals of the "Solidarity" because there was a question about the origins of this project. Yes, in 1980, as was well mentioned in your meeting with the President by the Minister Bożena Borys-Szop, this is what was said about union pluralism. There is no rational justification for saying that union monism, this monopoly of relationships is some sort of overriding value. I understand the position of relationships which today function as the only one in a given service, because from the interests of this trade union it was predictable that they would negate these changes, and it is nothing surprising. We are not driven by the interests of these trade unions, but absolutely do not formulate or dissuade their achievements and roles. The officer will decide. After all, the law in no way states that those members who are in the NSZZ Police Department today will have to change their status. They may continue to be associated with this organization, but an officer who wishes to have union protection - whether in disciplinary proceedings or in all circumstances related to the service - will have the full freedom to create new trade unions or participate in those which will be formed within structures that are associated with the OPZZ or in the Solidarity. I am therefore fully convinced that this change of law is a positive change and therefore I dare ask the High House to support the bill submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland to amend the Law on Police, Border Guard and Prison Service. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u499	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u500	The purpose of the amendment to the Act is to extend the rights of police officers, Border Guard officers and Prison Service officers as regards the formation and accession of trade unions. The Republic of Poland ensures the freedom to create and operate trade unions. That's what Art talks about. 12th Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Why is this article of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland respected only in PiS's rule? Why was the constitution not respected under the PO-PSL regime?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u501	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs in order to present a report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Request for a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Environment Henryk Kowalczyk (prints No. 3607 and 3648). I ask the representative of the applicants, Ms Agnieszka Pomaska, to provide a justification for the proposal. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u502	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to say that it is a tradition that requests for a vote of distrust are dealt with at night, but I would like to stress that under the cover of the night the problems of clean air will not disappear. Smog is not some cloud that disappears after hours. 21.30, this is the problem of Poles and Poles, and this is the main reason why we put a vote of distrust in the Minister of Environment Henryk Kowalczyk. The funding for the Clean Air programme was to come from the state budget, the national environmental fund and the regional environmental funds, revenues from emissions trading and, above all, EU funds. In the meantime, the inaction of Minister Kowalczyk and the government led to a situation where out of more than 4 million coal-fired furnaces, only a small percentage could be eliminated. As a result of the failure of Minister Kowalczyk Polska, Poles may lose even PLN 35 billion from the European Union. [[You have written it in euro, my fellow Member. Make up your mind.]] In order to obtain EU funding, the Clean Air Programme had to be aligned with EU rules and guidelines. Therefore, since the entry into force of the programme, the European Commission has identified its shortcomings and called for amendments. Experts have calculated that in order to achieve the objective of the Clean Air programme and to spend public resources effectively, around 400 000 should be eliminated during the year. Cinderella. Therefore, experts believe that the implementation of the programme should be entrusted to local authorities which could accept applications for grants and grant grants. However, the lack of approval of Minister Kowalczyk's department to decentralise these measures has led to an obvious stagnation in the programme. [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] After 10 months the programme was granted only 20,000. grants and, worth emphasising, another 60,000. The subsidies are waiting in line because this system is simply inefficient. Minister! Even Minister Gowin criticized the program you're running. The Minister at a meeting with the people of Kartuz in Pomorskie Voivodeship recently said directly: The Clean Air Program does not work in practice, although it is well thought out and there is money, but the failure of the public administration causes that this money does not work, cannot be used by the inhabitants. Minister, it's your responsibility. You're the one who can't manage this money so it's spent well. [[Voice from the room: Investment.]] In March, here in the Seym, you told the Minister that the program was in no way threatened. And what happened? Three months later, you received a letter from the European Commission. I have this letter right here. In this letter, the Director-General of the Commission clearly states that money for Poland is at risk and that you do nothing about it. The current programme is not eligible for Structural Funds. Unfortunately, since September 2018, when the programme entered into force, only 7.5 thousand were signed. agreements. Progress is very slow and results from the lack of an appropriate coordinator of actions on the part of Poland. Without significant changes and full involvement of the Polish side, we will not be able to create a program for residents before the beginning of the heating season this year. This poses a significant risk of loss of reputation for the Commission and the World Bank and, in my opinion, also for the Polish government - says the director responsible for this programme in the European Commission. What happens after receiving this letter? Minister Sasin calls for a meeting of PiS politicians and addressees of this letter, several ministers, among others. You, sir, to save the EU's money to fight the smog. What's your reaction? None. You're not doing anything at all. You don't see any problem. More than that, yesterday at the environmental committee meeting, you said we'd get that money because we just deserve it. Minister, you've got the wrong seat. The fact that this money belongs, it simply belongs, said Prime Minister Szydło from this speaker, in the Polish Parliament, but in Brussels and Strasbourg this policy does not work. In Brussels, you have to have friends, you have to know how to negotiate, not get something just because you are. If you don't believe me, ask Prime Minister Szydło. She's been trying twice lately. [[Applause]] She tried twice, in principle, because she owed me. [[Member, to the point, please. To the subject, to the point.]] You know the effect. Even on the Internet, there's this meme, and I don't know if you've seen it: once you lose, once you lose. I do not wish that this will happen to the EU money to fight smog. We're just here for this. No, no, no, no, no, no, But you're facing such a threat today. We can't let that happen. I'll remind you that within a year, as many as 45,000 people die of smog. Poles. Poles deserve to breathe clean air, and do not need screams: we deserve it. [[Eight years.]] This is not a policy that can be transferred from the Polish Sejm to European salons. It just doesn't work there, you have to understand. One more thing, you're lying to us. I've got the letter. I've read it. Perhaps someone mistranslated it to you. It says in this letter that the measures we are talking about are for this year and next year. You know that, and we all know that you're very scared of that letter. He was also frightened by Prime Minister Morawiecki. We know you're not very strong in this government today, so please don't lie to us again and tell us the truth. If you don't believe me, we're about to read this letter together. Speaking of the famous speech by Prime Minister Szydło on the prizes, I would remind you that you received 65,000. zł reward. [[But, Member, let's get to the point. We're not talking about Prime Minister Szydło.]] Your actual boss, President Kaczyński, said that the state would give this money to charity. I wrote you a few, a dozen, actually, months ago. You may not remember this, but I have this answer here, and from this answer, you haven't accounted for the money. [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] You didn't show the voters what happened to that money. [[Voice from the room: Shame.]] You just didn't give them away, and once again you lied to us all. [[Because they deserved it. It belonged to me.]] I don't know what President Kaczyński said. [[It's yours.]] I'm afraid there may be specific consequences for you. Third thing: Bialowieza Forest. [[And Poles are ashamed.]] It seemed that nothing worse than the Minister of Szyszko Puszcza Białowieża can meet, but I regret to say that you continue his policy. Your program for the rescue of the wilderness should be called "Piła i axery" as well as "Mr Szyszko's" program. We remember mass clippings of trees. The problem is whether the process of environmental devastation you moved to the Białowieża Forest. This is a place that should be under special protection, and for you, this place is destined for a special section. Despite the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, you grant permission to cut out another 155,000. trees in the forest. I know you're about to tell me that this is how you're fighting the barkers or the fires or the danger, but I just want to tell you one thing: the trees out of the woods are gone, and the barkers are left. I agree with one thing: the trees that were cut off by your permission and left the forest will not actually burn. And that's the third reason why you shouldn't be Minister of the Environment. Reason four. Since 2015, the import of garbage into Poland has tripled. If you don't believe me, I'll show you. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] That's what numbers look like. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] [[Garbage plus.]] So? What's your reaction? None, absolutely none, and the trash, as they burned in the landfills, so they burn and poison Poles. [[Garbage plus.]] This is your show when it comes to clean air. Fifth case. You are a minister of the environment and you should do everything you can to protect this environment. What are you doing? He solves problems with a shotgun. Environmental protection is also about animal protection. Your words: We live in times of excessive sensitivity to animal protection are extremely scandalous for the minister of the environment and you should explain yourself. Reason six - and I hope that you will finally speak here - is climate change and its consequences. President Duda said: "I do not know how much man actually contributes to climate change. The voices of scientists are very different. We know very well that we are also dealing with extremes, but looking objectively, historically, according to such knowledge, which is certain, climate change was in the history of the world. The Lord speaks in a similar spirit, says that he does not really know how man affects climate change. I have a reading for you. It's climate science. You can choose this book, and you can choose the cover of a weekly that talks about a climate lie. [[That's out of the question.]] It is a weekly financed actually from the state budget, by companies of the Treasury. [[Weekly: Out of the question.]] Decide what you believe, whether you believe in science or in stories. I think that this last issue, the issue of climate change, and this discussion within the framework of the camp governing climate change are so symbolic, because they show above all the fundamental differences between the PiS and the Civic Coalition, the civilization differences in the approach to the environment, our environment, water, air, plants and animals. [[To a human being. What about the man?]] Poland has already definitively closed the period of system transformation. The next 4 years are the time when Poland must start a new transformation on a large scale. The future of our children and grandchildren in an innovative, environmentally friendly Europe is at stake. Otherwise, we will fight the poor everyday life on the smog-covered desert and carbon polyxit. We believe that Poland needs EU support to achieve its environmental objectives, and we know that this must be done on the basis of seeking partners, in a spirit of cooperation. You're still looking for enemies, you're insulting yourselves, and at best you're waiting for an apology and you're saying it's okay. You are a brake in Europe, especially when it comes to environmental protection, and this is how EU partners see you, while the ability to negotiate measures, including those I have talked about, will be a determining factor for the future and development of Poland. We believe that environmental protection and effective fight against smog and other threats must take place in cooperation with local governments. We want to plan the details of the programmes in cooperation with local authorities, support them in implementation and funding. You treat local governments. Like enemies. You're looking for opportunities and ways to rob local governments of their competences, and you're just giving them more responsibilities without the resources to carry them out. We want to listen and learn from the non-governmental sector. Include them in dialogue, in joint development of solutions. And you're treating them like enemies again. I think the Białowieża Forest problem is the best example of this. We want to develop green energy. We want to support solar and wind power plants. What are you doing? You're eliminating windmills. We want to eliminate coal in heating houses and apartments by 2030 by 2035 - in system heating, by 2040 - in energy. And you're still wondering if man has an impact on climate change, and you're bringing in more and more coal from Russia. Absolute scandal. [[Applause]] We are convinced that the program built around environmental concern must be supported by solid education, and you - I have already shown - are sponsoring weeklys that undermine scientific findings. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am aware that this proposal will not change these fundamental differences in the approach to the environment, but I hope at least that we will be able to save the EU's clean air resources, to fight for the health and life of present and future generations of Poles. Minister! If you want to fight the ASF, you kill the wild, fighting the barker, cutting out hundreds of thousands of trees, fighting the smog, losing EU money. [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] [[You repeat yourself.]] You're supposed to be protecting the environment, not trying to destroy the environment. [[Applause]] Therefore, please support the request to express a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Environment Henryk Kowalczyk. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u503	Thank you, Member. I ask Mrs Barbara Dziuk to present the opinion of the committee. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u504	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I submit a report to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry of 16 July 2019 on the notification of a vote of distrust to the Minister for the Environment, Henryk Kowalczyk. At the meeting of the committee, we listened to the representatives of the applicants for the PO-KO Parliamentary Club. The justification concerned inter alia. charges against the Government's Clean Air Scheme, which will last until 2029. The applicants emphasized the inaction of the Minister and the Government, which is supposed to affect the loss of funding from the European Union on actions related to the elimination of smog in Poland. There's been a discussion. In view of the above, it is necessary to emphasize the fact, which happened for the first time in Poland's history, connected with the compulsory program aimed at all Poles and Poles in order to improve air quality in Poland by limiting the phenomenon of so-called. low emissions by very small local boilers or distributed individual sources of combustion and means of transport. The resort of the environment led by Minister Henryk Kowalczyk is responsible for establishing an air quality assessment system consisting in conducting air monitoring in the country, introducing air quality standards and general rules for the operation of the air quality management system. It must be stated with all responsibility that the Minister of the Environment used his powers to create the right conditions to improve air quality throughout Poland. The most important authorities of both the world and the national authorities express themselves and stress that for the first time a nationwide programme of clean air was created for all who serve to improve life and health care. [[Applause]] Minister Henryk Kowalczyk also emphasized and presented information on the most important actions he had taken together with the Ministry of Environment. First, ordering waste management, banning the import of municipal waste into Poland, strengthening the Environmental Protection Inspections, 24-hour shifts, the possibility of unannounced inspection, equipment for new control and research equipment, cooperation with services such as the police, fire department, prosecutor's office. Effects of the changes made: reducing the number of fires occurring, reducing the collection charge for municipal waste and reducing the waste management charge from the financial resources from the sale of secondary raw materials collected selectively. A very important project is carried out by the Ministry of the database on products and packaging and on waste management. Our predecessors, PO and PSL, in 2012 tried to build such a base, but unfortunately failed. Full implementation of all functionalities of the database on products and packaging and on waste management will be an effective tool for the Environmental Protection Inspection in the fight against irregularities in this sector. Improving air quality in Poland, which also undermines the opposition... Unfortunately, it must be said that the Ministry of Environment strengthens the air quality assessment system in Poland by strengthening the quality measurement system by purchasing modern quality measurement equipment, and creating new stations and measuring stations. [[Voice from the Chamber: But this is your opinion or was it at the committee meeting?]] [[Voice from the Chamber: But this is the committee's report?]] The Clean Air programme I was talking about is also very well consulted in the field. [[This is the committee's report, not this point.]] Unfortunately, the opposition may disagree with the facts, but there is really a great deal of interest, because this dependency, which is between the government and the ministry, is increasing, there are agreements signed with the ministry. [[Voice from the room: Not the opinion of the PIS.]] [[Calm down, behave yourself.]] I'm putting forward the information you spoke of in the Environment Minister's committee meeting. [[Voice from the Chamber: A little culture, Member.]] A very important element to recall the total opposition was the climate summit in Katowice, where the importance of both the Ministry of... [[A voice from the Chamber: Your Marshal, this committee report... At least pay attention, because I understand that you have no influence on what you are saying, but at least your attention, your Marshal.]] [[Voice in the Chamber: Report from the committee...]] ...and the most important point when it comes to Poland's position on talks. [[Voice from the Chamber: The Member does not understand who the representative of the committee is.]] Don't bother me, because I really... A little culture and culture. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the Chamber: But this is not the representative of the committee, it is the rapporteur.]] [[Voice from the room: Report...]] [[Voice from the courtroom: Marshal, I'm only asking one sentence.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Sit down, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u505	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent. Indeed, Madame, please go back to the report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u506	The most important actions taken by the National Environmental Fund, which the total opposition also questioned, are the promotion of electromobility, which the state could not afford, low-carbon transport. And with regard to the nationwide funding programmes of emergency services, you have unfortunately not done this at the same level as the Ministry of the Environment today, which needs to be stressed. [[Voice from the courtroom, Marshal.]] [[Calm down.]] [[The PiS opinion will be here any minute.]] Mrs. Marshal! Minister! As regards rural funding and support programmes, they were also very well developed by the Ministry. [[Voice from the Chamber: Mrs Marshal, the Member does not listen to us.]] [[He must read what Minister Kowalczyk has prepared.]] Unfortunately, you have many neglects, and you accuse us of incompetence and frivolity, and action against Poles and Poles. In view of the ongoing discussion, just at the same level as today, when you are expressing your views here... [[Ma'am, do you know what a report is?]] [[Oh, that's a report, that's right.]] ...the environmental committee has a negative opinion on the vote of distrust against the Minister of the Environment. [[Applause]] Mrs. Marshal! Here I wanted to highlight one very important thing. The Minister in his activities together with the Deputy Ministers, the entire Ministry... [[Voice from the room: And that's not it anymore.]] ...mostly improves quality of life and air condition. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen! You're showing a level that's really upsetting, and I'd rather discuss it substantively than politically. [[Voice from the hall: Basiu, tell them everything.]] [[Do you know the rules of the Sejm?]] Thank you very much, Minister, for the work you do to improve the quality of health and life of the people. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the Chamber: You are the rapporteur of the committee.]] [[Calm down.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u507	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European may only the President of the Council of Ministers and the Minister for the Environment. Questions are not acceptable as a separate element of the debate. Mrs Anna Paluch will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Come on in, my fellow Member. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] And I'm asking you to be quiet, really.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u508	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The old saying is: the wolf's law of opposition is to apply for a vote of distrust towards ministers. It can be simply said that, in this case, the applicant has not worked too hard. The justification for printing no. 3607 is only one and a half pages of the standard text, a comparable part is taken by signatures under this proposal. Now Mrs Pomaska has improved a bit, but not quite, because the data is as false as the written version you know. But that, ladies and gentlemen, is not important. It is important to have a complete counter-fact of the justification and the information, data and thesis that you have taken from a newspaper, once well-known, now niche, which you have just recalled. [[Applause]] What's the thesis? I'm not gonna repeat them. And now it's time for concrete, real and concrete. The Clean Air Programme has been implemented since September 2018. [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work.]] For 10 months 66 451 applications were submitted for the sum of PLN 1.5 billion. [[Voice from the room: All over Poland.]] [[Voice from the room: But 400 was meant to be.]] That's almost $30,000. He's been processed. 21 834 contracts were signed and 6982 applications for payment were submitted. [[Voice from the hall: 3 million farms.]] [[It took 4 million.]] PLN 40.5 million was paid out. This is the data as of 12 July 2019. [[Voice from the room: How much money was there to take?]] [[Voice from the room: What about 48 billion?]] In comparison, these programs, which you are so proud of, the Kawka programme, which lasted for 2 years, were 8200 applications for the sum of 240 million, and the Prosumer, which was implemented for 3 years, was 6400 applications for less than 200 million PLN. These are your achievements. Ladies and gentlemen of the PO-KO club, so many have been signed under the motion for a vote of distrust against the Minister! In the light of the NIK report pointing to the government's legislative chaos, organizational chaos... [[Voice from the room: It's all right.]] [[Tell my mom she was taking to replace the furnace.]] ...no air protection effects, you're the last political group... [[Voice from the room: Great chaos.]] ...who could make the same requests we've heard at the moment. [[Applause]] Didn't Minister Korolec of the PO-PSL government raise levels of air pollution alerting in 2012? Is this your minister? [[Voice from the Chamber: Do you live in a communal apartment as a Member?]] You wouldn't have anything to fight with. As it's said, he chased the kettle down to the pot, and the kettle itself. As for boilers, please, this regulation of the Minister of Development and Finance on boilers was issued almost 2 years ago, on 1 August 2017, and your omissions in this area were clearly summarised by the Court of Justice of the European Union in Case C-336/16. The judgment concerns the failure to comply with the permissible PM10 particulate matter level for the period 2007 to 2015 as set out in Directive 2008/50/EC. Who was in charge then? [[Applause]] The Government of Law and Justice uses all available means of action to ensure that Poles live in clean air. The quality measurement system has been strengthened, new measuring stations have been created, which have been equipped with new devices, the Institute of Environmental Protection has been unambiguously modeling mathematical transport and transformation of substances in the air since 1 January this year and informs Poles about air forecasts through the crisis management centre. On the one hand, the government's efforts are to develop network heat supplies for urban residents, and on the other hand, through the Clean Air programme, to help property owners to modernise and equip themselves with low-carbon energy sources. For middle- and low-income people, there is a "Clean Air" programme, and for wealthier people there is a thermomodernization relief. Ladies and gentlemen, what do we read in the motion? It's a messed-up piece of information. The programme was not implemented centrally, Mrs Pomaska, but from a regional level. It was implemented by voivodship environmental funds. [[Voice from the room: Inefficient.]] The procedure requires, in the end, public funds to be verified by the Fund after the request is made by the potential beneficiary. Then the contract is signed. The beneficiary shall have 2 years to carry out the planned actions. It shall then submit an application for payment. That's when the paycheck comes in. $40.5 million has already been paid out. [[Voice from the room: How many days?]] And this whole proposal, Mrs Erewan, is as credible as the news of Radio Erevan: not in Moscow, but in Leningrad, not cars, just bicycles, and they don't give away, they steal. That's your conclusion. [[Applause]] And one last thing. The applicant is talking about EUR 35 billion. It says, "It's written in print." [[Voice from the room: It's written.]] [[Voice from the room: Polish language is a difficult language.]] Well, we can not lose, we can gain. All Poles who benefit from the programme know that this is being implemented from national resources for the time being, and from the year 2022, European measures will be incorporated from a new perspective. [[Voice from the room: If you run, it'll be zero.]] [[Voice from the room: But you will see the letter.]] [[He's letting go. Kill everything, destroy everything.]] It will be, ladies and gentlemen, 30 billion PLN. Dear Member, you have shot your estimates four times. High Izbo! Not only did the Law and Justice government have to clean the proverbial stable of Augias in terms of air protection. When we took responsibility for the State, we found 21 infringement proceedings in the European Union. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: Time!]] Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Law and Justice Club thanks Minister Henryk Kowalczyk for his active, competent, reasonable and attentive, respectful of the social partners' role as Minister of the Environment and will, of course, vote against this lying, messy, contrary to reality and sloppyly prepared proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u509	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Gabriel Lenartowicz, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u510	Mrs. Marshal! What I'm trying to say is that my previous speaker has exceeded her time by one minute. I take it I'm gonna count it, too. [[Room voice: 30 seconds.]] High Seym! Minister! When, here in this Chamber, more than two years ago, I justified the request for the cancellation of your predecessor, I could not imagine a worse one for Poles and Polish nature minister. After all, we remember lex Szyszko, the devastation of the Białowieża Forest. We also remember the rise of this constitutional minister of smog from the natural dust from fields, meadows and sands blown from the Sahara. Then it seemed that the PiS had gone for reason, for a real science to the head and the minister of butchers and the lumberjacks will exchange. Unfortunately, the successor decided to continue this work creatively and despite the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the devastation continued. We're waiting for the punishments to begin. This is confirmed by the latest decision and opinion of UNESCO. Minister, even hunters do not agree to your massive extermination of wild game, including the pregnant dungeon. It is also recommended by your practice to shoot the game under strict protection, including the symbol of Polish nature, the bison. In order to improve your senses, you and your fellow minister recommend the consumption of supposed aphrodisiacs in the form of bobrych tails. [[Applause]] What about the famous smog? Nothing. A 100-billion-dollar program has been announced, except this program is headless and moneyless. No head, because for honest Poles conditions are that the poor cannot afford it, and the wealthy have no access to it. An example? 90% grant can be given to someone who has less than 600 PLN per person in the family and a house on his property. It's not like families like that can afford a real estate tax. People allegedly rich, i.e. above 1600 PLN per person, do not have access to this program. No money. Why? Because you don't need money with a show like this. There are neither Polish, the pennies are, and this has been repeated repeatedly in the national fund, nor in the EU, because this terrible Union wanted all these houses to warm up 4.5 million houses and replace the cinderellas. She has yet to calculate that we need a total of EUR 35 billion for this. We are talking about these two EU perspectives. For starters, in the future budget, she wanted to give us €6.8 billion, but to all those in need, and it was by local governments, not by party hungover, but you can't let that happen, because the money for you has one address: your campaign and the election campaign, such as last year's local government. [[Applause]] While not a single zloty went to the Poles to fight smog, 8700 thousand went to your friends without a tender. Evil on propaganda and set-ups with your candidates for self-government. [[Applause]] [[Disgraceful!]] [[The voice from the hall:]] I'll remind you, by the way, what our government left for air protection, what I was talking about at the committee meeting and why you denied the Minister. Thermomodernisation fund - 1900 million, Norwegian mechanism - 217 million euro, GIS - 1300 million PLN, infrastructure and environment - 4128 million euro, voivodship funds - 3100 million PLN... [[Voice from the room: 4 billion.]] ...national fund - 3100 million, including Kawka - 400 million, Rise - 400 million, Prosumer - 800 million, Lemur - 290, Stork - 570, subsidies for energy-efficient houses - 300 million. [[4 billion overeating from the fund.]] What can you boast about? These zeros from the 100 billion to the clean air, because they're the only ones that are specific. And last but not least, they say your horse is trash. You're poisoning Poland on an unprecedented scale, and it's not just smog. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] Despite the specialty on the trash specs, they still burn and poison. [[Garbage plus.]] Imports to Poland are still growing: from 150 thousand. t to 450,000. t now, i.e. tripled. And think of it as poison. Last year, 414 thousand died in Poland. People, which is the most important thing since the war. These deaths are affected by the state of the environment. You don't care? And then there's the water that's supposed to be the source of life. First you ruined water management, creating Polish swamps, not Polish Waters, and you got rid of the problem by giving water to sailors. Now that we're all seeing it missing, and scientists are banging on hormones, antibiotics. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and dioxins that destroy future generations, you, the Ministry of Shipping, instead of healthy water for Poles, deal with water-based transoceanic motorways - in rivers in water on ankles, also wasting money. [[Member, let's get to the point. Just finish it.]] [[Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska: Merytoryka killed you, Member.]] But we Poles, believe me, do not want to pay for your mess anymore and for this dump you make from Poland. Minister for the devastation of the Polish environment! We're not the ones who say, the Poles are telling you enough.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u511	Proceed to the end, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u512	By the way, Minister, you don't like this environment. [[Don't bore us with these...]] Then maybe you could leave us and him alone. Good luck. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u513	Thank you very much. Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz,15 has the floor. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u514	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Kukiz club15 on the application for a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Environment Henryk Kowalczyk. The justification for the proposal at the committee meeting was so weak that if only a motion to express a vote of distrust to the Minister of the Environment were to be based on it, this proposal would have to be rejected. But it is a matter of competence for the person who justified this request. It was a little better now. However, it is worth looking at the reason for this proposal, namely the implementation of the Clean Air programme. Contrary to the spells of the government and its acolytes in the form of some members of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, the implementation of this programme is disastrous, but probably according to the assumption that, in the absence of funds, proposals should be considered as long as possible. By the way, I have a question for the rapporteur: Where did she get this model report that doesn't have anything to do with reality? At the same time, please answer the question of where is the municipality where the prices of waste exports have been reduced for the residents. [[Applause]] As to the problem, I would like to say that the government only makes declarations, concerning e.g. cooperation with local governments, and that's the end of it. Because how is it that - I have data from the Ministry of the Environment, according to the state at the end of June - 64 thousand. Only 26 applications concluded contracts? This is not about errors in conclusions, but about the tardiness of officials, and even about consciously stopping decisions from spending state funds that simply are not there, because they need to be left in the budget so that they can be spent on the social programme of the PiS at least for elections. However, since the request for the cancellation of Minister Henryk Kowalczyk has already been filed, this is the also an opportunity to assess his activities as a minister of the environment as a whole. It is sad to say that she is evil. First of all, issues related to last year's landfill fires of various types of waste have still not been clarified. Moreover, the Ministry does not take any control measures in this regard despite providing information to it. I was quite recently talking about a landfill in the town of Pyszyca, where a few fires have occurred since last year, and the Ministry was not interested, as if it did not want to explain the circumstances of these fires. Recently there was also a burning of waste, tires in Kwaśniów Górny near Olkus, as well as heaps of waste collected in paper mill in Wadowice. There are much more such examples, and this is because the Minister has not clearly made his subordinates aware of such issues. Instead of acting, they shift tasks. MOST from Krakow does not express e.g. the willingness to check the next tyre composition when asked by residents, but it passes on to the holder of the permit to store them. The Minister prides himself on using better and more restrictive legal solutions than before, but this is about practice, not theory. The next issue is the cooperation of the resorts within the government of Prime Minister Morawiecki. It is simply not there, as evidenced by an example of the fight against the ASF plague. Another agricultural ministers say that it is necessary to change the way in which this fight is fought in order to be effective, for example. conduct a sanitary discharge. There's no such thing. The ASF plague - farmers on the part of the Law and Justice are aware of this... [[But this is not the responsibility of the Minister of Environment.]] Madam, please don't interrupt. [[The gunfire is the minister's responsibility.]] The ASF plague approaches Zamość. However, it may be necessary to work out between ourselves so that farmers do not suffer because of your animosity. For me, as a Member representing the 12th district in which the Lake Mucharski is located, there is another reason for a negative assessment of the Minister of the Environment. Although the issue of the Mucharski Lake itself falls within the competence of the Minister for Water Management and Inland Navigation, due to its natural state it is still under the responsibility of the Minister of the Environment. Yesterday, at the meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, I showed an example of the destruction of this water. There's dead, dreamy fish in there. The whole environment is simply contaminated with asphalt, iron of various kinds, watermarks, etc., which have now been exposed, because Polish waters - although not under the authority of Minister Kowalczyk - have decided to drain water from the tank. [[Drama, drama.]] Prime Minister Morawiecki! Sir, I'm asking you personally to take an interest in this case. Those circumstances, but I'm sure they are. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Many other reasons are that Kukiz15 is in favour of the motion to express a vote of distrust towards Minister Kowalczyk. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u515	Thank you very much. Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, Polish People's Party - Coalition Polska, has the floor. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u516	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! You've found Poland green, you'll leave it buried. [[Applause]] From smog, from burning garbage, from Russian coal. [[Voice from the room: Where were you?]] The Lord is not the minister of the environment, but the rubble that remains after you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: He, he.]] But first things first. The windmills are jammed. Biogas plants in their infancy. [[He's in the precinct.]] Home power plants are blocked. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Production of own current is blocked. For four years you have buried the chances of clean green energy for Poland and Poles. They'll bill you in the fall. [[And what kind of bullshit are you talking about?]] Let's keep going. The replacement of old furnaces is practically stopped. [[Voice from the room: Deal.]] The money for local governments to fight smog received, because smog is a theoretical problem. That's what your government buddy said. [[Applause]] 50,000. Poles die of theoretical smog, which you do not fight at all. What is the effect of your actions? For the first time in 15 years, the share of green energy in Poland is falling. We're facing billions of punishments for this. Over PLN 100 billion from the Clean Air programme are at risk. What do you say? Poles, nothing happened. [[Voice from the room: You're telling me you're a badass.]] Madam President, on Sunday, you ordered a policy of love, and you are barking at me. It's not nice not to listen to the president. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] The cheap green energy weighs on you, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] But you don't mind Russian coal. [[Who shut down the mines?]] It was your government that brought 30 million tons of coal from Russia to Poland. Only this year can it be about 15 million tons. Where are your promises for the Russian coal embargo? Where are your promises about buying Polish coal by public institutions? You were so brave in the opposition, so heroic. Tiger diplomacy. And they're just tigers. [[Pussycats.]] What happened to you guys? You sent us to Putin for the awards when it was 5 million tons of coal, and if it's 15 million tons, what should you get? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Russian coal doesn't bother you, green energy hurts you. [[Applause]] Poles strangle themselves with smog, and you amputate our homeland's lungs. You've grubbed up our homeland. In a few weeks, the infamous lex Szyszko cut 3 million trees into the trunk. Now you're awake and you want to plant 0.5 billion trees in six months. 32 trees per second, you've got momentum. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] But do you think someone's gonna buy it? You've found Poland green, you'll leave it grubbed up. [[Oh!]] You cut the trees under the landfills, under the trash cans. Where do you fit nearly a million tons of garbage brought from abroad? It's gotta be stuffed somewhere. [[Voice from the Chamber: In your time in 2012]] A million tons officially - a million tons officially - and unofficially, who knows. You're turning our country into a big garbage dump. Was that the plan? Szyszko will grub up, the Kowalczyk will put garbage in it. [[We cut everything green.]] And now for the real five of PiS. First, block the green energy. Second, flood Poland with Russian coal. Third, cut out the trees. Fourth, bring the trash to this place. [[Voice from the room: Garbage.]] Finally, fifthly, lose 100 billion from the Union and pay billions of penalties. A real five of PiS. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] [[Is that what you're excited about?]] You have no idea what you're doing. You risk the lives and health of Poles. That is why we will vote in favour of the cancellation of Minister Kowalczyk. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u517	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Polish People's Party, has the floor. You don't have much time left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u518	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! You're from Lower Silesia, so you know the town of Bogatynia. You probably know the mayor, until recently, this town of Mr. Andrzej G. The name can't be given in full because it's sitting. He's your friend from the Law and Justice Party. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] He was the mayor, and at the same time he worked with criminals. Do you know what it's called when power works with criminals? The Mafia. PiS-owska garbage mafia in Bogatynia. [[Voice from the room: Young, young, think about what you're saying.]] Under the eye of Mateusz Morawiecki, Wroclaw, Dolnoślązak, under the eye of Henryk Kowalczyk brought garbage from Germany to Polish cities, to Lower Silesia. You're not the Minister of Environmental Protection... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[I'm gonna put you on the ethics committee. I did.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u519	But don't yell, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u520	...but if you're the Polish Prime Minister, you should cancel the mayor or resign yourself. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u521	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Winnicki, Confederation, has the floor. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u522	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Although the school year ended a month ago, I will allow myself in this more or less mode to give this government an assessment, i.e. a school certificate, in the field of environmental protection and in general to deal with environmental issues. First of all, Prime Minister, it's a good thing that you're here in the courtroom for dismissing Professor Szyszka from her role under pressure from abroad. It was at the beginning because you bowed down, that abroad dictated to you who was to be minister in the Polish government. Secondly, for not continuing these good projects and good lines that Prof. Szyszko, as Minister of Environment, started, a second dick for your government. Thirdly, for not promoting and absolutely sluggish policies, you are pursuing the most ecological and stable energy source today, namely nuclear power, a nuclear power plant. Yeah, you're just another government that's wasted four years on this land for a nuclear power plant. We still have announcements, and they're still really in place. This is another dick. Fourthly, for not saying the climate package. For the fact that today the horrendous subsidies are coming from the budget - not only are they going for individual consumers, but they will also go for companies - another dick, because this climate package directly hits Polish energy resources, Polish energy production. That's the truth. Fifthly, ladies and gentlemen, for not saying the climate package and yet bringing back record quantities of coal from Russia while Polish mines are closing - another one, another one for your government in the field of energy, energy and ecosystem. Sixthly, for not moving mining production, mining, to modern technologies, such as: Gasification - another one, another dick for this government. Ladies and gentlemen, another thing worth pointing out here is the fact that you are completely giving the fields to any eco-terrorist in terms of setting yourself up against a healthy, rational environmental policy. You do not carry out any intelligent campaign that says that a man in the natural world should manage wisely and not give in to treatments that eco-terrorists perform. In fact, this field is completely devoted. Today, in the statements of the Civic Platform, the fact that there is a gap between some eco-resistence and normal politics sounded. No, nature conservation is something you have to do. Nature conservation is a natural consequence of man's wise management on earth. On the other hand, your approach, talking on the one hand about defending Polish coal, on the other hand bringing it to power from Russia, and on the third, the fact that you are not saying the climate package, is really some horrendous departure. Another one, another one is due to you for millions of electric cars, which were supposed to drive around Polish cities and villages - all over the country. Where are they? Those are the stories that were sucked out of your finger. They're some kind of dumbass construction. Ladies and gentlemen! I'll give you one five on this school certificate. Minister, you are personally a very charming man. This is the only five, because when it comes to the approach to the Ministry of the Environment, about what you've done with it, and about how you conduct energy policy and environmental policy, it's generally a dick. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u523	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Circle of Members of Free and Solidarni, has the floor. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u524	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the motion for a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Environment, Henryk Kowalczyk. Let's distinguish ecology from eco-fighting. We live in a time when the activities of environmental organizations serve the interests of large corporations and great politics. After all, in Poland we have large actions of pseudoecologists in defence, e.g. de facto the printer's bark, and none of these organizations or any of these activists are interested in building a colossal castle in the middle of the Note Forest, nor in the gigantic investments of German mining and German energy, which aim to multiply the mining of lignite and increase the level of its combustion, which pollutes the air much more than burning coal. All of this is beyond the interest of the communities supposedly fighting to protect the environment. Similarly, they were not interested in building the most dangerous investment in the history of the Baltic Sea, the Nord Stream pipeline. Nord Stream 2 didn't say a word either. The vote of distrust towards Minister Kowalczyk has the same motivation. It's not about the good of the environment, it's about the political struggle. The real fight for clean air is first of all planting trees. In this respect, Poland is today... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Germany!]] Laugh. Is that funny? Exactly. The real fight for clean air is first of all planting trees. In this respect, Poland is today a European leader. Today only in Poland we are dealing with a consistent increase in forest area level. This is something that no one in Europe achieves outside of us, because no one in Europe does as much as Poland does. Not long ago, the level of forests in Poland was only 22% of the country's territory. It was still one of the best levels in Europe. Currently we are closer and closer to reaching the target level, i.e. to forest 30% of Poland's territory. An additional 500 million trees, not only in forests but also in cities, have been recently announced. [[Voice from the room: How's it going?]] This activity is worth much more and brings disproportionately more environmental benefits than all German windmills and other eco-toys, from which a percentage of the benefits are derived only the narrow circles that make billions of euros of profit. We're for real, not fictional ecology. We're in favour of protecting the environment, not a fight organized for a business or a political order. Although, of course, I do not agree with all decisions of Minister Kowalczyk, I am aware that he is part of the team of the United Right. He was elected by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, whom I trust. Looking at the comprehensive, sustainable development of our country in recent years, I can say that I have a solid basis for this. Circle of Members of the Free and Solidarni will vote against the motion to express a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Environment, Henryk Kowalczyk. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] [[That's right.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u525	Thank you very much, Member. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Henryk Kowalczyk, Minister of Environment, please take the floor. You're welcome, Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u526	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! Dear Ministers, High Izbo! The conclusion that is made on the basis of the lying reports of a newspaper might actually be unworthy of attention. But now that it is, it is worth it, I think, discuss in substance the environment and what the Government of Law and Justice has done for the environment, and what the previous government coalition has done. [[Applause]] After all, the pure air program, from which we started the discussion, was a reaction, among others. to the judgment of the European Court of Justice indicating that in the years 2008 and 2015 exactly the years of your governments, Poland violated the standards of air cleanliness, little was done in this direction. [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] We really are on to this problem. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: Shame and shame!]] Also, the Supreme Audit Chamber clearly points out that in the years 2007-2015... [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: We are talking about the last four years.]] ...not enough action has been taken to protect the air. Indeed, there were isolated, scattered activities of local governments, as NIK said, chaotic, uncoordinated, with no effects. That is why we have really started to solve this problem in a comprehensive, coordinated, thoughtful way, with full financial support. Of course, the program that has been launched already has some effects. At the moment, 67,000 have been deposited. proposals for 1.5 billion are almost 30,000. decisions, etc. It's been said before, I'm not gonna say it again. In comparison, it can, because you were bragging at the committee's meeting about your programs, similar to those designed for individuals, the Kawka programme for the exchange of kilns. For two years, it was a program where you funded 8,000. entities. The Prosumer programme, which you criticize, that we do not promote renewable energy, you have funded 6400 entities in this programme, and at the moment there are already over 65 thousand. Prosumers, in the days of the Government of Law and Justice. [[Applause]] Ten times more. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Similarly, with the program "Clean Air," so for our 2, 3 years we have done 10 times more for clean air than you have done for 8 years. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Of course, the Clean Air programme is a development programme. Hence we launch the next distribution channel, you can say, paying, that is, we interact with the municipalities. At the moment the municipalities have already volunteered to sign over 300 agreements, another 300 municipalities are already ready to support this programme. I'm sure this program will work, but we also need to remember that if it were in one year All of a sudden, 400,000. conclusions, it would turn out that prices would have jumped 2, 3 times, so there must be a gradual spread of this program and this is, among other things, the case. target. But not only the Clean Air programme is an expression of our concern for the health of Poles and for the clean air. That's, among other things. The Law and Justice Government has introduced standards for solid fuel boilers. You didn't do it. That's, among other things. The Law and Justice Government has introduced quality requirements for solid fuels. You didn't do it. That's, among other things. This government has passed a law on air protection programs. That's, among other things. This government guarantees both the financing of the Clean Air programme and the financing of renewable energy. Renewable energy, which is financed to various extent, both in the field of district heating support, in order to stop small boilers and in the field of renewable energy for entrepreneurs, such a programme is launched, on an unimaginable scale for you, 4 billion PLN, loans and grants. The "Agroenergia' programme, so the allocation of subsidies to farmers who have good conditions, can install photovoltaic cells. The programme we are implementing is geothermal, so using renewable energy sources, the purest, can be said. [[Member Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Rydzyk.]] These are the elements that point to the real concern of the Government of Law and Justice for clean air, for the environment. But in your day, in fact, it may have been said, only that nothing has been done. As far as the color is concerned, that we found Poland green, in fact, Poland green left in 2015 and I hope that Poland green in the field of party color will not return again. [[Applause]] Because this country has forgotten about farmers, it has forgotten that farmers also need support in the field of environmental protection. [[It's green from the clover.]] The one we're introducing, that's, among other things. soil liming, that is the removal of agricultural waste, agricultural film, which of these stocks were left to farmers. It is the support of local authorities in the field of water supply, waste water disposal. This is concrete support for agricultural programmes. This is something that this green Poland has not remembered, unfortunately, over the last many years. Ladies and gentlemen! There were many comments about the waste, so maybe a few words about the waste. [[How many tons a day have arrived?]] Yeah, I'd love to say how much tone. I'll answer, yes, I'm very happy to answer. Last year 443 thousand were brought to Poland. t secondary raw materials... [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] ...because I don't know if you know, but last year we introduced a law banning the introduction of municipal waste and this ban is functioning, and even the trials that have occurred, bringing municipal waste from other countries, have been completed with an effective return to these countries. [[Applause]] [[Bravo.]] We returned $5,000. t waste to other countries. And how much did you return this municipal waste to other countries? [[Zero. 1 million t have been imported.]] [[Voice from the room: All of them.]] I didn't hear any waste coming back. As far as quantities are concerned, I think it is worth remembering that in your time, on average, over 1 million tons of waste were imported annually - 2009, 2010, 2011 - each year. And I don't know if they were secondary raw materials, because there was no ban on municipal waste at the time, so it's very likely that there were municipal waste as well. So if we're talking about importing, importing waste, then compare... [[Scandal.]] ...you have over 1 million t a year with our 440 thousand. t, and it certainly is secondary raw materials, not municipal waste. [[Scandal. Liars.]] And that's the truth that somehow doesn't want to get to you. [[Applause]] There have also been allegations that coal is being imported from Russia. Oh, I'm sorry, but would you like the Poles to freeze because you closed the mines, then where is the coal coming from, if not from Russia? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh.]] [[Voice from the room: Lying. It's just a lie.]] You closed down the mines, so the import of coal from Russia in your day was, of course, there was. It's descending, and I hope it disappears completely, but unfortunately because you closed the mines, it has to be completed. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Lying and scandal.]] So that's the difference, but in your day, coal of the worst quality was imported, while we, by introducing quality standards for solid fuels, are sure that this coal is of high energy and good quality. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] I know there are screams, the truth hurts, which is why these screams appear... [[Applause]] [[Oh, it hurts, it hurts.]] [[Voice from the hall: And people die.]] ...but unfortunately you have to hit your own chest if you make these kinds of accusations. As far as waste management is concerned, if we're still allowed to go back to the subject, we've obviously found mountains of garbage, and we've even tried to inventory these mountains of garbage, and what did it turn out to be? That after the inventory of previous years we have located over 350 illegal landfills, which appeared and on which were collected waste in your years - 3.5 million tons. [[They've arrived...]] [[Voice from the hall: Disgrace.]] Of course we are ready to help local governments clean up this garbage, so we clean up after you, we clean up after you, we have a clean air program, that's what we do after you, so that's the facts. [[Voice from the hall: Million tons.]] [[But it doesn't burn...]] [[And you're setting them on fire?]] As far as arson is concerned, the landfill fires were in your time, for ours, but the legal solutions introduced last year caused that these waste fires after a year of operation of the waste bill to be more than half as low as in previous years. These are facts, so look at this. Of course, the trash you've collected hasn't gone miraculously yet, we have to clean it up, that's right... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] The legal conditions for new landfills are such that new landfills no longer contain fires, there is a full guarantee of the disposal of these waste. You didn't want to put waste management in order, and I'm asking you because you didn't enter the waste database. This is an extremely important tool for ordering waste management. In fact, since 2012, you have only postponed the deadline for this task. We have done so this year with the forces of the Institute of Environmental Protection, we have built a waste management base, which will operate from 1 January 2020, and then we will only have full control of waste management. You had to build first, put an end to the backlogs, which unfortunately remained after you. As far as other environmental measures are concerned, it's nothing more than the lack of monitoring, the lack of supervision, the conditions of inspection of the Environmental Protection Inspections, which were for criminals, for the Mafia... Well, how do you define the conditions under which the environmental inspector had to inform the inspected 7 days in advance that he was going to check it? It's a psychic. We shut it down, we put in continuous surveillance. Ask the people of Mielec how they protested against air poisoning by neighbouring companies. [[They're still protesting.]] The introduction of monitoring is an immediate reaction, a change of law, continuous monitoring. The problems, of course, may not have disappeared completely, but they are completely different from previous times. I still think it is worth mentioning that now thanks to the new legislation regulating waste management, thanks to the fact that the Environmental Protection Inspection is working 24 hours a day, that it is available to all residents, that there is very good cooperation between the Environmental Protection Inspection and the Police, the Fire Department, the Border Service, it could be said and then returned illegally imported waste abroad. It didn't happen in your day. Of course, the trash mafia worked, but now there's a lot of arrests, proceedings, this business has been completely cut short. [[It's rich.]] Once again, the trash that remained after your time has not gone away. This task is still ahead of us, and we still have to clean it up. Maybe I'll say a few words about the Bialowieza Forest because there's a lot of lies here. I would like to explain that the Białowieża Forest is not at risk of being deleted from the UNESCO heritage list, as someone said here. Yes, there was a UNESCO mission in August Ub. The forest has been found to be adequately protected. I know I'm gonna have to let go because you want to destroy her, but she's really well protected, and the UNESCO committee said so. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] The UNESCO committee said that, so please don't say things that are absolutely untrue. Of course, we have done much more for the climate than your governments. That's the crown she was. [[♪ The bell ♪]] climate conference in Katowice, where we have achieved organisational and negotiating success. No one's questioning that. [[Voice from the room: Time.]] But we also remember that climate protection is about reducing emissions and increasing absorption... [[Voice from the room: Kit.]] I know it's out of your mind, but you really plant 500 million trees a year, it really is. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: Well, we can't fit.]] If you don't get it in your head, you should just check it out. Back to climate: the Member showed climate science. I do not know if you have read this, but I have read this book very carefully, very carefully, so I would advise you not to read and pass judgments which are absolutely false and have nothing to do with science. [[Applause]] As far as climate protection is concerned, there is indeed a problem. We're trying to solve it. This is a global problem, and we need to remember that too. We can't solve it alone, we have to solve it together, jointly and severally in the whole world family, because unfortunately, carbon dioxide emissions do not know the limits. We have such a rational climate protection policy. This is demonstrated, for example, by the support for renewable energy under the programmes I mentioned, by the development of renewable energy, by the increase of forestry and by many other measures that serve to protect the climate. Thank you very much. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u527	Thank you very much, Minister. Please take the floor of the President of the Council of Ministers of Mr Mateusz Morawiecki. You're welcome, Prime Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u528	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Since the opposition's proposal focused mainly on the Clean Air programme, I will primarily deal with this programme so as to actually answer as substantively as possible the unfair allegations that have arisen here. Let's start with when the first standards have been implemented, the first regulations in terms of clean air, which are really trying to improve this. Well, they were implemented after the year of our governments, in 2017 - the first regulation on boiler quality. Before that, there was no boiler quality regulation, there was a free American woman. The second thing is the quality of fuel in the domestic fireplaces. Before that, there was no indication of fuel quality in domestic fireplaces. We introduced this as part of the Clean Air program, the antismog program. [[Applause]] Another area is a very wide-ranging programme of a civilizational, social nature, a thermomodernization programme. This program was also criticised. First of all, it must be noted that you have not proposed any such programme... [[That's not true! It was modernized.]] ...and the extensive programme of thermomodernization, in which we will involve tens of billions of zlotys in the coming years, is a program that is gaining momentum. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[You're lying.]] [[That's a lie.]] [[Marshal, please calm down... silence!]] Anyway, one such curiosity, ladies and gentlemen. In the opposition proposal - and indeed in the supposition of one of the newspapers, which was rightly described here as increasingly niche - there have been such suspicions that this money will be taken away by the European Union. But I have double good news. You are all associated with EU programmes, but this is a programme implemented exclusively from national resources, from budgetary resources. [[Applause]] [[Exactly.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] So it's hard to get something that you didn't get, isn't it? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[But Pomaska doesn't know that.]] [[That's not true.]] Of course, we are talking with the European Union so that, in the future, in the next perspective, this thermomodernisation programme is even more extensive, but it is gaining momentum today, and 65 000 have already been accepted. conclusions. [[Voices from the hall: Who are we talking to?]] [[Voice from the room: He doesn't want to talk to you.]] Besides, today we are also expanding the distribution network to include local governments, banking units, so as to reach as many residents as possible as possible. 53,000. PLN for municipalities especially contaminated, for those who least can afford it, are a subsidy - 90%, 10% may receive a loan. Is this a program that adequately responds to clean air needs or not? [[Of course I do.]] Of course in the right way. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] Let's ask, because smog is probably not a problem that was born suddenly in 2016, as the opposition dealt with the smog problem. But you know, High Izbo, who do we ask? [[Voice from the room: Please, you've shut down the program.]] Let us ask the Court of Justice of the European Union. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] What did the Court of Justice of the European Union say in February, or 22 or 23 February 2018? He gave a crushing opinion on the years 2007 to 2015. I don't need to remind you who was in charge at the time. [[Voice from the room: Who advised?]] In those years, the Court of Justice stated - note - that the level of PM10 substance, which is responsible for the concentration of dust in 1 m3... [[Voice from the room: Who advised?]] ...was exceeded in 35 to 46 measurement zones. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] But how did our dear opposition, who then ruled, respond? She responded in two ways, because in dialogue with the European Commission, the responses of the Civic Platform are included in the dialogue with the European Court of Justice. The first answer was this: We cannot change it because there is no money. We remember this answer in many ways: There is no money. [[There isn't, and there won't be.]] [[Voice from the room: There isn't. There isn't.]] Of course, they wrote at that time that the money would come and the air would improve after 2020. But we do it faster, ladies and gentlemen. Today's opposition can be proud of the rulers, [[Applause]] because we deliver your announcements from 2012, 2013 and 2014. But there was a second, much more embarrassing method by which the opposition tried to improve its statistics, so to speak. [[And what did Morawiecki, Tusk's advisor, say? And what did Morawiecki, Tusk's advisor, say?]] Well, in 2012 the norm was changed from 200 to 300 Sh of these dusts to 1 m3. What's it called, sir? [[Who was Prime Minister Tusk's advisor then? Interesting.]] If you don't want to know your temperature, break the thermometer. So that's what our opposition did in 2012. Ladies and gentlemen! This is not a way to improve clean air. Clean air, of course, is a great civilization challenge. We are aware of it, we are trying through a thermomodernization program, through the proper quality of boilers, through adequate fuel quality, through many other programs - yes, including planting trees. You made a mockery of 500 million trees. But I want to assure you that this is the truth... [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: But we have always planted so much.]] ...and last year 500 million trees and this year there will be 500 million trees planted [[Applause]] in our beautiful homeland. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Every year it is planted.]] One more point, which was not the subject of the proposal earlier, but which appeared in the discussion, i.e. waste. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, the proposal has been subjected to a particular manipulation. Well, the Member has shown the last 2 or 3 years when the amount of tonnes imported... [[Five. Five.]] ...iscalated around 300-400, last year at least 430,000. a. And now, attention. How much in the days of the Civic Platform in the year in which the most tonnes of waste were imported from abroad... What was the number? Member, do you remember? [[Voice from the room: Million.]] No. [[Over 1,600 thousand.]] 1,600 thousand. [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] [[Voice from the hall: Aren't you ashamed?]] [[Liar. Apologize for lying.]] It was the year when it was 1,100 thousand, it was the year when it was 900 thousand, it was the year when it was 1,600 thousand. [[Voice from the room: Apologize. It's a lie.]] Today Minister Kowalczyk explained this perfectly... [[Voice from the room: Apologize, apologize.]] [[But what year are you gonna tell me?]] [[Apologize.]] It is not only that it is 400,000, but we, following the recommendations of the European Commission, are implementing the policy of a circular economy. [[Applause]] It is recycling more and more... and it is waste that is recycled. And the newly created landfills are actually trying to monitor as best as possible and there are fewer and fewer fires there. So I will limit myself to these comments, I will not talk about climate, about climate policy, which in 2008 and 2014 the opposition so dramatically accused, failed, that today we must, like a month ago, deal with minorities. But we manage, ladies and gentlemen, by developing the best rules for Poland and the best compensation package for Poland possible in the context of climate policy. I will confine myself to this one basic subject which was the subject of the proposal. I want to thank Minister Kowalczyk. I would also like to thank Minister Szyszko, who has been wronged here. [[Applause]] The accusations... [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] ...for the love of the nature of both masters, and our formation, of course, of all nature. On the example of planting forests, I said how we prove it... [[He's still the CEO.]] But first of all, I would like to emphasise once again, High Izbo, dear country, that the Clean Air programme has been implemented for 3 years in a very concrete way, based on fuel quality, boiler quality, thermomodernization program... [[Voice from the room: Shame.]] [[Voice from the room: Lying.]] [[Voice from the hall: Disgrace.]] ...aid for the most deprived people, the change of fuels to greener, the change of energy mix, and yes, the promotion of renewable energy, and yes, the promotion of prosumer energy. [[Voice from the room: Russian coal.]] Because we already have 65,000 in our day. Prosumers. [[Applause]] How many prosumers were there four years ago? 6,000, 7,000. - Ten times less. Prosumer energy is an important direction for us to improve the quality of the environment. We're gonna go in that direction, we promise the voters. I'm sure we want green energy to be more and more important in our energy mix. That's what happens. Minister Kowalczyk, Minister Tchórzewski is very much contributing to this. Thank you so much for that. Thank you kindly. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u529	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will be voting on this in a moment. I'm declaring a 1-minute recess. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 23 minutes 01 hours 23 min 05]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 18 of the agenda: Request for a vote of distrust towards Minister of Environment Henryk Kowalczyk. Let me remind you that according to the article. Point (c) of paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland Sejm expresses the vote of distrust by a majority of the statutory number of Members. I would also like to remind you that the committee has given a negative opinion. We're ready. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to express a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Environment, Henryk Kowalczyk, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. The statutory majority is 231. 170 voted against - 246, 9 Members abstained. [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] I state that, in the absence of the required majority of votes, the Sejm rejected the motion to express a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Environment, Henryk Kowalczyk. The group of Members submitted a draft resolution amending the resolution on the appointment and selection of the personal composition of the Extraordinary Commission for the examination of draft electoral laws, print No 3678. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the first reading of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. [[Voice from the room: Objection.]] There's an objection. We will have to resolve the opposition because, as I understand it, it is the procedure, so the Sejm's consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the Sejm's consent to the application of Article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, please raise your hand and press the button. [[The president's not here.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. It was 255 against 167, with four abstentions. The Sejm accepted the offer. We proceed with the examination of item 59 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft resolution on amending the resolution on the appointment and selection of the personal composition of the Extraordinary Commission for the examination of draft electoral laws (print No 3678). I ask Mrs Lydia Burzyńska to provide the reasons for the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u530	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present on behalf of the applicants a draft resolution amending the resolution on the appointment and selection of the personal composition of the Extraordinary Commission for the examination of draft electoral laws, print No 3678. The amendments proposed in the draft resolution are intended to extend the scope of the actions set up by the Extraordinary Commission on 24 November 2017 to consider draft electoral law laws for the revision of the regulations on Supreme Court compositions which recognise electoral law cases. Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the applicants, please vote in favour of extending the scope of the activities of the committee mentioned by me. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u531	Thank you, Member. Would any of you like to speak on the proposal? No one's checking in. I propose that the Sejm proceed immediately to the second reading of the draft resolution. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to the second reading of the draft resolution. Would any of you like to speak at the second reading of the draft resolution? No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft resolution in print 3678 in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. For - 255, against - 166, stopped 4. The Sejm adopted a resolution amending the resolution on the appointment and selection of the personal composition of the Extraordinary Commission for the examination of draft electoral laws. I'm declaring a two-minute recess, 'cause today's the end of the vote. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 23 minutes 11 hours 23 min 12]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy and the Treasury on the Government's draft law amending the Law on oil stocks, oil products and natural gas and the rules for dealing with situations of threat to the fuel security of the state and disturbances on the oil market and the Energy Law (prints No 3621 and 3646). Mr Wiesław Krajewski will present the report of the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u532	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! It has been my honour to present a report by the Commission for Energy and the Treasury on the Government's draft law amending the Law on oil stocks, oil products and natural gas and the rules for dealing with situations of threat to the fuel security of the state and disturbances on the oil market and the Energy Law, print No 3621. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, sent on 12 July this year. the above draft law to the Commission for Energy and Treasury for first reading. The Commission for Energy and Treasury at its meeting held on 17 July 2019 examined the draft submitted and carried out its first reading. Four amendments were tabled during the committee's work, which were welcomed by the committee. Therefore, on behalf of the Committee on Energy and the Treasury, I request that the High Sejm adopt the draft law submitted to the Government. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u533	The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Iwona Arent will perform on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u534	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present an opinion on the report by the Committee on Energy and the Treasury on the Government's draft law amending the Law on oil stocks, petroleum products and natural gas and on the principles of dealing with situations of threat to the fuel security of the state and disturbances on the oil market and the Energy Law, Print No 3621 and 3646. Energy security, including energy supply, is crucial for Poland. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki said that energy security is as important today as military security. Energy security, concerning not only Poland, but the entire North Atlantic Alliance, was also discussed at the NATO Summit in Warsaw. Stable supply system, diversification of import routes, suppliers and energy sources, cooperation between them these are key factors for ensuring energy security. The main objective of the bill is not to allow storage capacity shortages for both the Material Reserve Agency and oil companies. The Government of Law and Justice has successfully fought against the so-called. The grey zone, which increases the legal circulation of fuels. Also the progressive process of diversification of oil supplies to Poland increases the demand for storage capacity. Therefore, it is difficult to obtain storage capacity for mandatory stocks to be created in 2019, both for the Material Reserve Agency and for other entities. The availability of storage areas is a condition for maintaining these stocks and maintaining intervention stocks of crude oil and fuels. The EU directive also requires our country to maintain minimum stocks of oil and petroleum products. The Agency and oil companies report difficulties in obtaining warehouse services. Measures should therefore be taken to ensure adequate expansion of storage areas. Expansion of storage infrastructure is necessary, necessary. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is therefore necessary to amend the Wrestling Act, the main objective of which is to prevent a shortage of storage capacity for oil operators. As I mentioned at the beginning, this is related to the energy security of our country and not just our country. Law and Justice approve of this amendment, recognizes it. We will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u535	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski will present his position on behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u536	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, I would like to present a position on the draft law amending the Law on oil stocks, oil products and natural gas and on the principles of dealing with situations of threat to the fuel security of the state and disturbances on the oil market and the Energy Law. High Izbo! What are we dealing with, what is this bill even talking about? In what direction? Are we updating this bill? Let me give you two sentences of introduction. It is also worth looking at what is written in the basic law, which has been adopted much earlier, which we are updating. We have such provisions: In order to ensure the supply of oil and petroleum products to the Republic of Poland in situations of disruption of their supply on the domestic market and to fulfil international obligations, oil and petroleum products stocks, known as intervention stocks, are being created. Intervention stocks include mandatory stocks, mandatory stocks are created by producers and traders, and agency stocks. The agency's stocks are created by the Material Reserve Agency. As mentioned above, intervention stocks are intended to meet oil and fuel needs in specific situations. They are to meet the demand for these products in a quantity corresponding to at least, you can say, 90 days of the average annual transport of daily fuel in a given calendar year. As oil and fuel demand are increasing, this means increasing demand for the capacity of these warehouses so that the relevant reserves are placed on the market, which translates, among other things. problems in obtaining adequate storage capacity for mandatory resources and agency resources. The availability of warehouse space in the Republic of Poland is a condition for the creation of the required intervention stocks, and thus a condition for ensuring fuel safety in Poland, and it could be said that the energy security mentioned by the previous Member. However, it turns out that from the 2017 review of the adaptation of warehouse infrastructure to the requirements of the Stock Stocks Act, the only not adapted warehouse to some extent is the underground oil and fuel warehouse of the Mountain, owned by Orlen, because this company forms the capital group of Orlen Group. What does it turn out to be? The owner only adjusted to a certain extent this warehouse to the need to maintain stocks, to the technical capacity to inject them. In a warehouse with a total capacity of more than 6 million m3 holds only about 4.3 million m3. Due to the lack or omission of an effective investment process. Today he proposes, or actually moves to a project in which he wants to extend it by the next years, a transitional period for achieving the technical parameters of warehouses ensuring their full physical availability. The government, which in many of its activities, when talking about the energy security of the country, about the fuel safety of this country, and can even be said to have reworded this security, failed to fulfil its duty for four years, did not remember that these warehouses should be modernised and their capacity increased. In 2014, a law was passed in which this transitional process was extended for a further period of almost 10 years. It turns out that, at this time, the ruling option did not do so. What does it turn out to be? Another transitional period is proposed. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Act gives the President of the Material Reserve Agency the possibility of temporarily placing agency stocks in capacity which do not meet the availability requirement within 90 days. Of course, the Act also accepts the implementation of EU law in this area and it can be said that under the cover of this implementation it is trying to postpone the transition period for the following years so that this inefficient modernisation activity, with the expansion of the warehouses, can be completed. The Civic Platform, seeing that the government can't handle the investment...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u537	Mr President, please proceed to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u538	...with national security in mind, she will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u539	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u540	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I would like to express my position on print No 3621 concerning the amendment of the Law on oil stocks, petroleum products and natural gas and the rules for dealing with situations of threat to the fuel security of the state and disturbances on the oil market and the Energy Law. Ladies and gentlemen, Kukiz15 supports and will support the work on this printing because there is no doubt about the energy security debate. I understand that there is no one in the Chamber who has a shadow of doubt that state energy security is a priority, that it is the most important, all the more so because we are talking about a project that is aimed at implementing EU law. At the same time, it is also important to note that we are talking about a project in part showing the sins of the earlier coalition, which also rode on such specific props. I would only hope, Minister, that this element of temporary and paper security ends and Polish oil and fuel warehouses will really physically have these quantities for these 10 days, that Poland will have warehouses and oil or fuel for the time of possible use of this fuel. This is not a fanaberia, it is simply a requirement of well understood interest of the Polish state. For a very long time, for more than 20 years of energy security, diversification was such words of picks used by the Polish political class. It's high time you took it professionally, not conduct paperwork. The point is that this oil and storage facility physically exists and functions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u541	Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak will present his position on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club - Coalition Polska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u542	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Listening to the justification, I had this feeling that right now the government was starting to worry about our strategic stocks, about the state reserves, like something amazing was happening. After all, keeping stocks is a constant matter, there have always been stocks. Of course, this needs to be perfected. We have legal solutions that are already in place, as the predecessors have said. Maybe not fully realized, but it's already working, and right now there's no particular concern, really. As I said, listening to this justification, it was possible to feel that suddenly, at this moment, we are worried about these wrestlings. Let me get this straight. I remember how this law was adopted in the previous term, what were the concerns about why we should keep stocks and still share them with the countries of the European Union, because it is a requirement, that they are available to the public and that availability must be. Like this, certainly not, Poland must be sovereign and cannot make available our fuel or gas supplies... Strategic supplies are important, because this is state security. All creators, including those who later amended this law, have always had this in mind. There are appropriate procedures to be followed. The Polish People's Party will support this project because it is needed. It is not, however, that this concern has already begun to govern the rulers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u543	Thank you very much, sir. Anyone else want to sign up for a list of questions? I can't see. So I close the list. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition begins. Time - 1 minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u544	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As I mentioned earlier, 2014 was the first year since which the transitional period was prepared and entered into this law. I'd like to hear from you why we did it in 2014. - and you were also working at the Ministry, perhaps under a different name, the Ministry of Economy, and you were also involved in this process - they introduced a transitional period. What was the purpose of the transitional period? What were we supposed to do then? What investments were to be carried out and how were they carried out during this period or what today did not result in the state having introduced this transitional period for some time? Were we planning wrong, or were we wrong at the time to analyse what quantities of stocks we needed and how much consumption would be planned? What affects today that we are restarting the transition period? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u545	Thank you. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u546	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As investment processes in fuel storage infrastructure need to be significantly accelerated, I have the following question. Is an increased involvement in the safety and technical control of the quality of the investments made, which appears to be necessary in the context of time pressure. At the same time, I would like to ask whether the standards for future warehouse security are already in force at the investment design stage. It is not only about technical or environmental issues, but also about security against possible acts of terror. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u547	Thank you. Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u548	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Energy security is as important as military security, and that is why we support this bill. The State said that companies report problems with the storage area and that, therefore, amendments to this law are needed because intervention stocks are being created in a situation of disruption. I would like to ask which companies report these needs and whether this bill is intended for Orlen's needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u549	Thank you. And Mr Marek Wójcik, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, will ask the last question at this point. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u550	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Fuel stocks are an important element of Poland's energy security, but they are also the result of part of international commitments towards our partners in the European Union. These rules have been adopted at European level in order to enable the exchange of fuels in a crisis situation within our cooperation and alliance. Today, this law shows that Poland does not fulfil these obligations properly. Therefore, I would like to ask how the amount of fuel consumed in Poland has changed since 2015 and how at that time, i.e. since 2015, the area of storage facilities for intervention reserves has changed. What is the real reason that the space of these warehouses does not keep pace with the amount of fuel used in Poland, and what investments has the agency carried out in the last 4 years controlled by the government? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u551	This question and previous questions will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy, Mr Tomasz Dąbrowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u552	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will start by thanking all the clubs for their declaration of support for this bill, because it is indeed an important element of regulation in the energy sector, which has introduced a long-awaited change in the scope, among others. storage areas in the oil system. It is worth recalling that the increase in the legal trading of fuels, which is the result of the fight against the grey zone, is the reason for the legislative measures that have been taken, because no one expected that the fight against the grey zone would result in such a large increase in the legal consumption of diesel and fuel, and thus an increase in oil consumption. Several issues have been addressed in the draft, which have been discussed in detail in the speeches, so I will not repeat what has been presented. On the other hand, to answer questions about the project that have been put, I would like to say that the increase in demand for storage capacity is mainly due to the increase in fuel consumption in our country resulting from normal economic development of the country and, secondly, to the increase in legal consumption resulting from the fight against the grey zone. So it is not that this problem has emerged rapidly and we are solving it at the moment, but only as a result of the long-term action, further action must be taken. With regard to the question of who this is really about, this applies to all market participants, both producers, I mean Orlen, and Lotos, and PERN, i.e. the company transporting oil and petroleum products, storage, as well as the Material Reserve Agency. Recently, as I mentioned earlier in the committee, the President of the Material Reserve Agency has announced tenders for the purchase of additional storage capacity and no storage space was offered, because such storage space was not available. Therefore, the only logical action was to use what is available nominally in an underground warehouse in IKS Solino. Today, these areas are used approximately up to 4.2 million m3 of 6 and by introducing these regulations we create the possibility to use these nominal surfaces virtually fully. The question was what investments had been made in the meantime since 2014. There is a problem with providing precise data, especially for a company that is a listed company. When it comes to providing detailed data, I can do so in a slightly more aggregated way. We can talk about the fact that storage capacity will increase from about 10 million m3 to 13.2 as a result of these activities, and they will be used both on the capacity needed to maintain intervention stocks of agencies and mandatory and will increase the operational capacity for maintaining fuels and products. On the other hand, as far as Pern's investments are concerned, it is foreseen here that between 2019 and 2025 investments will be around PLN 2 billion and will cover investments in the offshore pipeline as well as storage capacity. In Gdansk it will be about 390 thousand. m3, further in the database in Gdańsk twice 100,000, in other places approximately 130 thousand. The fuel has already been given and another 350,000. These will be investments in the next stages in existing bases. With regard to the question of screening, of course, all fuel bases are subject to critical infrastructure regulation, and they are equipped with security, monitoring and security systems, which are open and secret security, so as to have full control over what is happening in the infrastructure itself and around the infrastructure. The project itself regulates the nominal capacity of IKS Solino and certain procedural issues related to the use of these capacities in IKS Solino in a way that has been regulated differently than before in terms of the deadline for oil embossing, leaving the President of the Material Reserve Agency the possibility to assess whether it is necessary and appropriate at the moment to preserve the security of the state of fuel storage in such a way. It is the President of the Material Reserve Agency who controls the state and quality of these stocks and will therefore do so much more objectively and better than if it had been left, for example. market participants. At this point, it is still worth recalling that this issue of storage capacity is extremely important, as we have seen in recent months. I will remind you that from 19 April to the beginning of June, oil contaminated with inorganic chlorides from the territory of the Russian Federation went to Poland and thanks to proper management, firstly flows, secondly, the state and quantity of stocks Poland was completely safe in terms of supply. We lasted 46 days without the oil supply and there were no signs on the market that something was going on in the system. The market and consumers did not feel this situation at all. In other words, the appropriate infrastructure, the proper stocking situation allowed us to manage the situation in such a way that it was not noticeable on the market and on the consumer, and it certainly did not translate into any price fluctuations resulting from this type of operation. Of course, the situation is already stabilizing and normalizing, and thanks to the fact that these storage areas are available and properly managed, it was possible to survive this situation, which was a clear distortion of the oil supply market. I think I've answered all the questions that have been asked. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u553	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u554	In the explanatory memorandum, we can read that the proposed law introduces changes that correspond to those indicated by entrepreneurs and the agency's shortage of storage capacity due to the rapid increase in legal fuel trading. I would therefore like to ask whether, in that case, the Ministry has an estimate of the illegal fuel trade during the IP and PSL.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u555	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: Report from the Commission for Energy and the Treasury on the Government's draft law on amending the Act on investment in the regasification terminal of liquefied natural gas in Świnoujście (prints No 3623 and 3647). Ms Ewa Malik will present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u556	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, the Commission for Energy and Treasury discussed a draft law amending the Investment Act in the field of the liquefied natural gas regasification terminal in Świnoujście. The first reading in the committee resulted in a report in parliamentary printing No 3647. The report is accompanied by a minority proposal to delete Article. 1 draft law. The Commission for Energy and Treasury recommends that the High Sejm adopt a draft law from print no. 3623 without amendments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u557	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Piotr King will speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u558	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on printing no. 3623, i.e. on the draft law amending the Law on investment in the scope of the regasification terminal of liquefied natural gas in Świnoujście. The Law of 24 April 2009 on investments in the regasification terminal of liquefied natural gas in Świnoujście lays down rules for the preparation, implementation and financing of investments in the terminal in Świnoujście and its accompanying investments. For the purposes of the Act, among others, the improvement of the construction process of investments accompanying the terminal, the implementation of which will allow efficient operation or increased use of the LNG terminal. Currently, the catalogue of accompanying investments includes projects carried out by the gas transmission system operator OGP Gaz-System SA, Polskie LNG SA and Polskie Górnictwo Naftowe and Gazownictwo SA. It should be noted that the effective flow of natural gas from the LNG terminal depends not only on transmission networks but also on distribution networks. It is the distribution network that is part of the direct connection between the final customer of natural gas and the LNG terminal. The proposed investments will contribute to the creation of a functional gas distribution system, fully integrated with the transmission system. It should also be noted that these sections of the distribution system with high pressure parameters due to their location and technical parameters complement the key corridors for the supply of gas fuels in Poland. The absence of proposed investment facilitations at the statutory level for these high pressure distribution pipelines may lead to a reduction in the scope, omission or delay during the decision on their construction. The absence of any of these distribution pipelines due to their importance for the efficient flow of natural gas from the LNG terminal will make it impossible to maximise the use of its capacity. Consequently, the failure to adopt the solutions proposed in the draft will reduce the possibility of achieving the overriding objective of the specialization. The proposed solutions are adequate and necessary to achieve the intended objectives. The process of investment processes so far clearly justifies that there are no alternatives to achieving similar effects and therefore the solutions prepared are not excessive in comparison with the objective to be achieved. The project foresees that the implementation of the proposed investment specification will be entrusted to the country's largest operator of the gas distribution system, managing 95% distribution networks across the country, i.e. Polska Spółka Gazownictwa Sp. o.o., and the possibility of using these powers to customers of gaseous fuels which are generators of electricity and heat... Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice intends to support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u559	Thank you very much. Ms Jolanta Hibner will speak on behalf of the Civic Platform-Citizen Coalition Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u560	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Club, I have the honour to present a position regarding the amendment of the Investment Act in the field of the liquefied natural gas regasification terminal in Świnoujście, print No. 3623. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposed project is a special act for the implementation of investments in pipelines and the distribution of liquefied natural gas. And as we heard today at the meeting of the Committee on Energy and the Treasury, the main objective of the Act is to accelerate the linear investments carried out by the Polish Gas Company. But what surprise is introduced, by the way, in the provisions of the proposed law? The implementation of the investment to be carried out limits the ownership rights by means of the way in which compensation is determined by the public authority. To date, although it was known that the investment was needed, the authorities were inclined to bow their heads and owners or other entities involved in this investment process, to offer the right price to even discuss this price. Here, in this act, the owner will not be able to deny the amount of compensation for taking over the land, to oppose the passage of this pipeline through its property. You're just in charge. The State will not ask the citizen whether he or she can take advantage of his or her property or whether he or she will pay compensation in the amount of compensation due. You're in charge. But not everyone is treated the same way on the occasion of these investments, there are exceptions. Special provisions apply to areas under the Ministry of National Defence and its units, and give very great privileges in terms of holding back these investments or making changes in their area. The proposed project has not been consulted publicly. Why? The answer is obvious. Citizens would then learn how, contrary to their will, power can limit their property rights according to the principle: power rules, power does not ask. Therefore, the draft law should not be adopted in this form. And that's why on behalf of the club, I'm filing for rejection. Ladies and gentlemen, there is another law related to this law, which was also under investigation today, i.e. Act amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and on environmental impact assessments and certain other laws. It is this law that is enumerated in this law so that society does not have access to any information, because it could speak out against some investment, although not because something has gone wrong, just because it requires respect for itself, to the citizens. Citizens require the power of respect for themselves and for their property, respect for it. It's not here. Here's the bypass. The second law states how one law linked to the other will act against our citizens. Thank you. On behalf of the club, I'm filing a motion to reject this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u561	Thank you, Member. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski will speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u562	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I would like to present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Investments in the Regasification Terminal of liquefied natural gas in Świnoujście. Ladies and gentlemen, what I have already said in one of my previous speeches is energy security. We are talking about a draft law that concerns the extension of the network. It so happens - here my thanks - that my district, Warmia and Mazury, is in this project, in the extension of this network. In my opinion, we have no doubt within the Kukiz club15 that this project is important and necessary. This does not change the fact that there will always be questions and discussions on so-called issues. compensations. It's always gonna be like this. Whether you build highways, bridges, new blocks or skyscrapers - there is always a problem of compensation. Here we're talking about a thing that requires us to get over it. We're talking about one of the elements of energy security. Let me just remind you that our neighbour in the east recognised such issues as a strategic element and prioritised them. That's the priority. We are afraid to call them by name - an essential element. We had a long problem with diversification, and we had a long problem with new sources. We have and we have a problem with the transmission network, which we still need to expand, as well as energy networks. That's the priority. Is in the case of such investments all 100% Is it perfect? I'm sure that's not an option. At this point, there are thousands of people who will be affected by the investment. There will always be social resistance, and in this context no investment should really and would not be allowed to arise. At this point, we need to put something above it. It's about state security and the fact that a given investment may bother someone, but it's about gas and energy that everyone is willing to use. We need to balance this and approach it rationally. We can reject the project, but there's a question of who's profiting from it and who's losing it. What will the inhabitants, the citizens, benefit from this? There will be no network, there will be no new diversification. They will be exposed to various surprises, especially in areas that are remote from the power plant or from resources, such as: Warmia and Mazury. We're the east flank. There are military units on our turf. We're aware that we're talking about the military element here as well. Maybe no one said it out loud. This element will certainly be captured there. We won't be offended. We are aware that energy security is the most important thing. The Kukiz Club15 supports the bill and will support its work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u563	Thank you very much. As regards the club Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland, Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak's speech on behalf of the club was made in writing. We're going to ask questions. I'm closing the list. We begin with Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. Time - 1 minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u564	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The investments you are talking about and which you want to implement on the basis of this specialty concern not only the construction of a high pressure gas pipeline. It is worth noting that in points 10, 11 and 12 we are talking about the construction of gas connections. It's an unheard of thing so far. This is not enough, in points 10 and 11 you clearly give rise to this investment, but in point 12 you write generals - construction will connect to the largest final customers purchasing gas for electricity generation. If the state or government has identified investments, it might be worth writing down what these investments are. And so we give the glitch actually on everything you can do, what you can step on in terms of private property, trample the rights of Polish citizens in a special law, [[♪ The bell ♪]] in which the government will determine the amount of this compensation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u565	Thank you. Mr Maciej Małecki, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u566	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thanks to the very consistent and effective actions of the Government of Law and Justice, we can finally free ourselves from Russia's gas dictatorship. This is the execution of the will of the sleep. President Lech Kaczyński. In a few years, we will have an extended terminal of 7.5 million m3 in Świnoujście. The Baltic Pipe pipeline will start and, taking into account national extraction, we will be able not only to cover internal demand but also to share gas with our neighbours. But for all of this to work, we need a functioning system, a blood system that can distribute gas all over the country. Minister! The proposed solutions will speed up the development of distribution pipelines. Tell me, if you don't mind... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] A gas pipeline for distribution. How will it be correlated with the launch of the Baltic Pipe pipeline, with the extension of the terminal in Świnoujście, i.e. the operation of the increased amount of gas that we will be able to bring to Poland this way, through the North Gate? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u567	Mr Rafał Mucha, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u568	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have two short questions. I would like to know how long today the process of building pipelines similar to those referred to in the draft law is taking. And second question: How much gas will we be able to distribute - if this possibility increases - through the construction of the pipeline bill provided for in the bill? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u569	Thank you. Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u570	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Energy security is very important, as we have already said, just as important as military security, while in this law again we have a limitation on the ownership of local governments. That's another special act you're trying to limit their powers. I wanted to ask you why you don't like local governments so much that you're trying to take them completely away from their territory and take them away. And disrespect... Also why here, as my colleague said, are you going to limit environmental protection, something that has always been directly protected by successive laws, more and more? This is so important right now that the whole world is talking about it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u571	Thank you. The questions will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy, Mr Tomasz Dąbrowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u572	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe I'll start by saying a few words about the project itself, which has been somewhat demolished here. It is worth to see what is actually included in this printing, what is made up of the design, what is actually regulated. First of all, it is a change of law that has been in force for a long time. The project itself boils down to the fact that the list of investments that is now included in this regulation is supplemented by another 11 items. On the other hand, nothing changes as regards the principles which are contained in this Act - the rules of operation of the mechanism aimed at simplifying and speeding up the investment process. That's the first thing. As for the list of investments that is supplemented in this project, it is worth noting that they are investments in high pressure pipelines and the only difference between what has been included in the current regulation so far is that they will be implemented by a different entity than those which are today indicated by the law - by the distribution system operator. In fact, the investments to be carried out are investments in high-pressure gas pipelines. This is very important, because it indicates that the whole construction is going to facilitate the distribution of gas, which will be introduced into the system's entry at the terminal point, to ensure simply full absorption of the amount of gas that will be sent to Poland. Another thing is the mechanism of expropriation, compensation, etc. Like I said, we're not changing anything about the existing rules, we're just adding more investment. Here are some issues that can be misleading. First of all, the entire compensation process is regulated in this law. It ends with a decision being made by the voivodship, which is suable. This is controlled, the process of suing it before administrative courts. That's what Art says. 35 laws in its current form. So we're not changing or modifying anything here. This is actually a special act. We supplement its regulations with further investments, which are needed for the full absorption of those amounts of gas that will be sent to Poland. As for this list, these two points in connection and what has been indicated as a kind of open directory, it may indeed seem open at first glance, but it is closed, as it only concerns connection to transmission networks. So this will apply to very few places. This is actually linked to the connection of large gas customers, which means electricity generators who can be connected to the gas transmission network in the future. The number of these manufacturers is really over. Today, it is not entirely certain where and where these manufacturers will be connected to the system. Questions about the dates of completion and correlation of the investments that are added, with the extension of the terminal in Świnoujście and completion of the investment under Baltic Pipe. I would like to point out that all these investments are to be completed in the horizon by 2022, i.e. de facto before putting these two large investments important for diversification of gas supply to Poland, in order to facilitate the distribution of this gas across the country. The next question concerned the length of the investment process. In today's circumstances, this high-pressure gas pipeline investment process takes from 8 to 10 years and this is confirmed by the investments that had previously been carried out, and from the moment of design to putting into service unfortunately does not want to go any further. Only the application of the provisions of this law allows the completion of these investments within a very reasonable period of time. Here, this list, which has been proposed as a complement to the regulation, is the investment to be completed by 2022. I think that's all the questions that have been asked, so thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u573	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u574	The draft law that has been prepared is undoubtedly a very ambitious, but also a real one. It is the realization of what the government of predecessors, POs and PSL, completely forgot and ignored. On the other hand, the explanatory memorandum states that failing to accept the solutions proposed in the draft will reduce the possibility of achieving the overarching goal of the speciality. In view of the relevance of the project and the considerable need for what is intended to be achieved, I would like to ask how, in time, the expansion of distribution networks will contribute to the deployment of gas as an eco-friendly fuel for real estate heating.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u575	High Seym! Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland, I will present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Act on investments in the scope of the regasification terminal of liquefied natural gas in Świnoujście. The rapid pace of the planned amendment was announced on the website of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki on 4 July. The Permanent Committee of the Council of Ministers dealt with a project notified 2 days earlier by the Ministry of Energy. The government adopted the project in exceptional circulation on July 10 and 2 days later it was sent to the Sejm. Lightning first, second and third readings. The Act proposes an extension of the so-called directory. investments accompanying the construction of the LNG terminal in Świnoujście, whose task is to ensure the efficient operation of the terminal. The project provides for the application of similar solutions to many elements of the transmission network to selected distribution pipelines selected as key for the supply of gas fuels to customers in Poland. The PSL-KP Club will present its position in the voting block.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u576	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Currently, the catalogue of investments accompanying the LNG terminal in Świnoujście includes projects carried out by: gas transmission system operator OGP Gaz-System, Polish LNG and Polish Petroleum Mining and Gas Industry. Thanks to this project, this catalogue will be extended to include investments (distributive gas pipelines) carried out by the Polish Gas Company sp. z o.o., in particular those included in the programme announced by the Prime Minister to accelerate investment in the gas network of Poland. What are the total expenditures related to the implementation of the investments included in the project? Does the government envisage further extension of the catalogue of accompanying investments?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u577	In the discussion, a motion was made to reject the draft law in its entirety. I propose that the Sejm do not refer this bill back to the committee. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: Report from the Commission for Energy and the Treasury on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels and certain other laws (prints 3626 and 3652). Mr Sitarski will present a report to the committee. You're welcome. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u578	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour, on behalf of the Committee on Energy and the Treasury, to present a report on the proposed law amending the Law on Liquid Biocomponents and biofuels and certain other laws. The project is quite extensive, but I would like in a much more practical way to approximate the provisions of the Act and what follows from it. First of all, when examining all fuel records in Poland, it should be noted that the 2014 import dynamics of 856 thousand. t has increased by properly managing the state and not allowing the grey market to reach 4730 000. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. At this point, we should refer to the Prime Minister and express our deep thanks for sealing this grey zone, which took place here, and in the case of the Polish state globally. Another very good case, very good record related to this bill. Namely, here is a provision which draft regulation... There is a provision in the act on the purchase support project for cars, zero- and low-carbon vehicles of 30% the purchase price of the vehicle. To put it simply, electric prices driven by hydrogen will have government support. This is also another direct dimension of support for citizens resulting from this law. Another thing that is achieved here through the provisions of this law. Namely, the exploitation of agricultural potential in the vicinity of almost 50-60% agricultural production, e.g. Rape, goes on power supply to supplement with biocomponents in fuels used in accordance with the national indicator target. This gives jobs in agriculture. This gives proper management of the agricultural market and does not allow uncontrolled imports of raw materials for these purposes from abroad. In general, 11 actions are being carried out that are supported by the Low Carbon Transport Fund. On one further point, it was also achieved that additional charges were not charged to the citizens by accepting the burden of the levy on the Low carbon Transport Fund by fuel companies. It's also a difficult challenge that has been brought forward. As a result, the companies compensated the operating costs of this fee. In addition, fuel prices are mainly shaped by global oil prices, the dollar rate, which generally shapes fuel prices and is not shaped by an additional charge at this point, which has already been proven. Here's another thing. The law itself regulates the provisions and will operate from 2020. The Commission recommends supporting this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u579	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Beata Mateusiak-Pielucha will be the first to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u580	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! The purpose of the Law on the amendment of the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels is due to the need to introduce in the Act of 25 August 2006 on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels provisions relating to the current conditions for achieving the national indicative target. The obligation of a national indicative target, in short: NCW, is one of the elements of achieving the objective of using renewable energy sources in transport, which is linked to the use of biocomponents in liquid fuels and biofuels. The directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 April 2009 on the promotion and use of energy from renewable sources states this. The adoption of the proposed legislation aims to align the levels and ranges of the NCW with the current capabilities of the fuel sector in order to eliminate the risk of a fuel crisis. The solutions proposed in the draft law concern the determination for the following years, firstly, of the national indicative target until 2024, secondly, of the reduction coefficients, and thirdly, of the mandatory blending level for the years 2020 to 2022 on a scale that is feasible for obliged entities, which is crucial in the context of ensuring fuel stability and security for the coming years. The proposed values have been so assessed as to ensure at least the current level of consumption of biocomponents in the coming years, which is important for the national agri-food processing sector, their main producer. Since the use of biocomponents in liquid fuels and liquid biofuels depends directly on the level of consumption of transport fuels in the country, the level of consumption of these fuels depends on the achievement of the national indicative target. The use of biocomponents to compose liquid fuels is currently the most efficient and cheapest method of achieving RES targets in transport, hence mandatory blending. The Act introduces, inter alia, amendments aimed at enabling other renewable fuels and biocomponents to be included in the NCW, modifying the mandatory blending mechanism, including changes notified by KOWR, introducing changes to the functioning of the Low Emission Transport Fund. Many solutions are discussed in detail in the implementing acts. The proposed law is compatible with European Union law. On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I recommend that the High House adopt this law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u581	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Civic Platform-Citizen Coalition Club, the speech will be presented by Monika Rosa. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u582	Mrs. Marshalkini! Minister! High Izbo! In the justification for this project, you write that the aim of the proposed law is to implement the responsibilities associated with the implementation of the national indicative objective in the coming years. Knowing that RES must be implemented in transport is obvious. It's a little bit like adjusting the bill to the fact that you haven't dealt with this country enough. According to the legislation you proposed, fuel sold in Poland will contain 8,5% in 2020 Bioadditionals, this year this requirement is 8% Last time, it was 7.5%. There are financial penalties at stake for breaking the records offered by you. Of course, there was a gate left here: if the obligation to add biocomponents in at least 85% is fulfilled, instead of adding the remaining 15% Fuel companies can pay so-called. a backup fee to the Low-Emission Transport Fund account. Last year it was 85 million PLN. The bill gives the possibility to use as an additive for liquid biocarbon fuels. The national indicator target will also be realized by the bio-hydrogen added to fuels, produced using biomethane, i.e. purified biogas from the biogas plant. There are also many other solutions that, as a rule, loosen the possibilities for achieving the national indicative target in the coming years. However, in no way does this project meet the biggest challenges facing us, namely the pursuit of an ecological zero-emission economy, including zero-emission transport. The project contains a very interesting record. It's in the article. Article 6 (3) is amended as follows: 68 in such a way as to delay by 2 years the moment when the primary and central administrative authorities will achieve a noticeable share of electric cars in their fleet. And so now: the chief or central state authority shall ensure that the share of electric vehicles in the commercial fleet of vehicles is at least 10% from 1 January 2022, 20% from 1 January 2023. My question is, do you not manage to increase the share of electric cars in the government fleet? Why do you want to write a failure in this regard directly in the bill? Let us remind you that there are no special successes in the private sector either. A little over 6,000. registered in Poland 3800 cars are purely electric vehicles. They can be charged with electricity from coal power plants in 752 charging stations. In the first half of this year. A total of 1836 electric vehicles with electric drive and hybrids were registered. In total, at this rate by 2025 we will make tens of thousands of electric cars on Polish roads. Not a million, and this million in 2016 was mentioned by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. At that time, you announced support for electromobility. It took the form of the possibility of using the Low-Emission Transport Fund, but in such a way constructed that virtually no natural person, private will want to use this fund, because the amount to which a car can be bought is 125 thousand. zł. Very few car models meet this requirement. In fact, it is not known where this amount came from in this bill. Poland is simultaneously flooded by a wave of used cars. In the first half of this year it was over 502 thousand. Pieces. Less than 1% less than last year. 44% These cars are old diesels whose owners no longer want to move around Western European countries. The average age of a car entering the country is 11 years and 7 months. In the case of an entire car park circling our roads, that's 15 years. These rules will, of course, facilitate the day-to-day operation, ensure that fuel prices do not increase, but do not respond in any way to the long-term challenges that we have to address, namely zero-emission collective transport, energy transformation and the effective fight against the climate crisis. These are our challenges. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u583	Thank you, Madam President, for your speech. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski will present his speech on behalf of the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u584	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I would like to present my position on print No 3626, the draft law amending the Law on Liquid Biocomponents and biofuels and certain other laws. The Kukiz Club15 will support the work on this project, even though a little bit of a surprise was the appearance of this printing, but after deepening into the essence it is worth paying attention to one interesting thing. Print's so thick. So much is a draft law, and these are the remaining implementing acts and arrangements, which means that we are dealing with a project that is refined, consulted and, moreover, very important in the fight against the fuel mafia. Fighting the fuel mob is a fight. again with criminals who require a certain long-term, because in this respect the mob acts like a web. This is one of the elements of the fight against the Mafia, and thus restoring legitimate income to the state budget to use for citizens' needs. Hence we will support the project, we will continue to debate it and work on it, and I hope that we will develop a good project, a good bill for our citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u585	Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak wrote on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club - Coalition Polska. We're going to ask questions. We begin with Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. Time - 1 minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u586	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask you how the national objective is being pursued today. How much will the provisions of this law improve the implementation of the national indicator target, which is one of the important elements of even today's law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u587	Thank you. And the second question, Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u588	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! As my colleague said, so far we have 1836 electric cars, and indeed by 2025 there will not be such electrification as Prime Minister Morawiecki said. I do not know how and what regulations the Prime Minister would like to speed up the electrification, but this is a question for him, because it seems that unfortunately, but he did not tell the truth here. I also wanted to draw your attention... My previous speaker told me about the old cars. I wanted to draw your attention to the fact that, for example, in Brussels and other Belgian and not only Belgian cities there are regulations that prevent and register and use of old cars due to environmental pollution, and let us be aware that we in Poland have the biggest poisoning in Europe, as you know. Therefore, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The question is: How do the state of government want to control this large amount of used cars that come to Poland, come, are imported because elsewhere they cannot be, other countries refuse permission to use them? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u589	Thank you. The questions will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy, Mr Tomasz Dąbrowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u590	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe I'll start by saying that actually the sejm printing is very thick, but this basic part of the regulation we're discussing is on 33 pages at the beginning of this printing. [[Voice from the room: Yes, exactly.]] All the rest is what should accompany the project, which is sent for further seymical work. These are both justifications, impact assessments and draft implementing acts to this law, accompanied by justifications, impact assessments and all the annexes that must be attached to it. However, the draft law itself regulates whether the three main legal acts are amended. The first is the Act of August 2006 on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels, in so far as it regulates the national indicative objective and pursues this objective, in so far as it regulates the functioning of the Low Carbon Transport Fund. As regards this element, the Act first of all clarifies the powers of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management as the entity that manages this fund, and the Minister of Energy, who is the fund's manager in the context of cash flows and increased management control over the Low Emission Transport Fund. It also amends the provisions of the August 2006 Act on a system to monitor and control the quality of fuels to the extent that this applies to the obligation to label distributors at service stations so that consumers have easy access to information. Finally, it also amends the Act of January this year on electromobility and alternative fuels for the shift to 1 January 2022 of the obligation for the general and central authorities and local authorities to have a 10% share of electric vehicles or vehicles powered by natural gas in the fleet as a whole. As regards the Act on Electromobility and Alternative Fuels, the expiry date of contracts for the performance of public tasks shall also be postponed with entities which do not meet the requirements of the Act on Electromobility by 31 December 2021. The solutions adopted should allow both local governments and companies to have sufficient time to adapt to the wording in the most effective way and at the same time not to automatically terminate the existing agreements that have been concluded. With regard to this part of the Law on Liquid Biocomponents and biofuels, this project is again a consequence of extensive efforts to combat the grey zone, resulting in an increase in the legal consumption of diesel between 2015 and 2018, from 11.5 million t to 17.2 million t, and an increase in legal imports of diesel increased by more than 400% - from 1 million tons in 2015 to 4.7 million tons in 2017. These phenomena have a very important impact on the functioning of the entire logistics chain of liquid fuels in the country, making it necessary to structurally modernise the entire fuel sector. They were asking questions about what the issue of NCW consumption looks like at the moment. I will state that, as a result of these actions, the estimated quantities for the production and consumption of bioethanol in 2020 with this indicator, which is now proposed in the Act, 8.5%, will be approximately 265 thousand. t, esters - approx. 1 million 25 thousand, in 2021 268 thousand. in the area of bioethanol and 1 million 70 000. for methyl esters and 270 000 in 2022 bioethanol and 1 million 110 thousand. esters. These are the sizes that will allow NCW to be realized at those levels that have been saved in the Act. There were also questions about the issue of electric cars and the data that were provided would require some correction, as according to data at the end of May 2019. In Poland there were 795 charging points with normal power, 410 charging points with high power, 28 CNG gas filling stations and 3580 electric vehicles, 2387 plug-in hybrid vehicles and 4900 CNG-powered vehicles. One of the questions that were raised also concerned this shift in the implementation of the 10% participation obligation, because it was one of the requests raised, among others. from local authorities. In order to facilitate the proper participation of the fleet of electric vehicles in the fleet as a whole, we have decided, of course, to make it as cost effective as possible, to shift this obligation to the end of 2021, as this will actually allow price pressure to be avoided primarily and to implement this obligation in the most cost-effective way. As far as the NCW is concerned, I would like to point out that the project also takes into account the demands of bio-component manufacturers and agricultural organisations and thus guarantees the stability of the agri-food processing sector supplying agricultural raw materials for the production of bio-components. According to the data we received from the National Agricultural Support Centre, these amounts to about 2 million t for rapeseed and almost 0.5 million t for maize. The adoption of these modified solutions in the Act will, above all, reduce the costs of achieving the national indicative target and thus significantly reduce the pressure on possible increases in fuel prices by up to 20 grams per litre, which will have a significant impact on citizens and consumers of fuels and, above all, the competitiveness of the economy as a whole. This is why it is so important to adopt these solutions, because in fact they allow to achieve the targets for renewable energy sources and provided for in the transport part in a way which is cost-effective and allows to demonstrate the achievement of this objective. As for the discussion of the zero-emission economy, of course. debates in this area take place in different forums. This project concerns only one narrow section, i.e. renewable sources in transport, which are implemented through the achievement of the national indicative objective, so we are not discussing in this area, they will be conducted on the occasion of other projects. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u591	Thank you. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u592	Whether, according to what is included in the assessment of the effects of the regulation, the measures to appear in relation to the Low Emission Transport Fund will go to Polish companies, Polish companies and Polish local governments, among others. the use of such solutions as will allow for the introduction of public low- or zero-emission transport?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u593	High Seym! Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party - the Polish Coalition, I will present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the law on biocomponents and liquid biofuels. The project sets the levels of the National Indicator Objective for the period 2020 to 20202022, i.e. the levels of the average share of biofuels in fuel consumption for transport purposes. In 2020 and in the following years, the nominal NCW shall be 8,5%, 8,6% respectively. and 8.7%. The project also clarifies a number of other factors for calculating the achievement of this objective. It assumes inter alia. The inclusion of new types of fuels in the NCW and proposes that the Act not only include defined liquid fuels but also other fuels used in the transport of fuels which have emerged with technological progress. It goes on for example. with compressed natural gas. In addition, NCW should include products derived from the so-called process. Co-hydrogenation. This is the production of biocomponents from petroleum products and e.g. vegetable oils, fats, waste, biomass, etc. Finally, the Act also aims to cover liquid fuels containing bio-hydrogen, i.e. fuels produced using bio-methane - purified biogas from biogas plants.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u594	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the Senate draft law on combating food waste (prints 2431 and 3655). The report will be presented by Mr Paweł Kobyliński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u595	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Preventing food waste is not only a project of strict meaning, but it is also our moral and environmental responsibility. This is what the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the subcommittee, which was set up in April last year, which I had the honour of being president. Ladies and gentlemen, in Poland 9 million tons of food are wasted per year, that is over 200 kg of food per person. It's like setting 450,000. Tire - if you set them one by one, they would reach Beijing, this is the scale of waste. Our committee took care of it. First of all, she dealt with this section, which concerns trade, where waste can be easily captured at the very beginning. Our committee worked in a huge consensus. This is one project from a small number of projects, which I hope will be accepted by the acclamation. At the same time, I would like to thank the Ministry, the Chair of the Committee and the representatives of all the parliamentary clubs who were involved in the design of this project, the work of this project, and the submission of very substantive amendments. I wanted to thank everyone for having such an important discussion at committee meetings. The subcommittee has gathered four times. We had the committee's main meeting yesterday. As a representative of the Civic Platform Club - the Civic Coalition I will make two more amendments. Once again, I would like to thank all those who were involved in this project very much. I would like to thank Senator Augustine, who was the applicant of this project. I hope that such projects will be as much as possible. And so I will personally say that this project makes it really worth being an MEP. The more such projects, the more we will show as the Sejm that we are able to work together for the entire society. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u596	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Antoni Duda will speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u597	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club regarding the Senate proposal for a law against food waste, prints 2431 and 3655. Food waste is an important environmental, economic and ethical problem. The waste of food occurs at every stage, from manufacturing through processing and distribution, on consumption at the final consumer to final consumption. The scale of food waste at different stages varies. According to the European Commission's 2012 estimates, 89 million tons of food is wasted in the European Union. It's 179 kg per person per year. Most of the food is wasted at the household stage, but the distribution area accounts for about 5% wasted food. In the case of Poland, there are no specific estimates of food waste. Eurostat data in 2006 talked about wasting around 9 million tons a year, as mentioned by the previous speaker. According to data from the Federation of Polish Food Banks, 65 thousand were transferred through food banks in 2015. t food, of which only 1400 t, i.e. approx. 2% It came from donations from commercial networks. In 2016, the amount of food delivered to the banks increased to 92 700 t, of which 4700 t were transferred by distributors. 81 000 are not included in this data. t fruit and vegetables in connection with the Russian embargo. At present, there is no regulation in Poland to prevent food waste. The only convenience in this respect is favourable tax rules. Since January 2009, a donation from producers of food products has been exempt from duty on goods and services, except alcoholic beverages with an alcoholic strength of more than 1,2% and alcoholic beverages consisting of a mixture of beer and non-alcoholic beverages in which an alcoholic strength by volume exceeds 0,5% if they are transferred to a public benefit organisation for charitable purposes carried out by that organisation. On the other hand, as of 1 October 2013, the exemption for donations of the abovementioned food to the public benefit organisation was extended to include its distributors and currently covers all taxpayers making such donations. The proposed law focuses on the distribution sector because the tax facilities in place are mainly used by food producers. Furthermore, the distribution sector, and particularly large shops, with a commercial area of more than 250 m2, has significant potential to reduce food waste, since: firstly, the large scale facilitates the logistics of food transport to food banks, secondly, the advanced technical infrastructure, such as central warehouses, computer tracking systems, allows for a smooth identification of the food for which the shelf life is approaching, while maintaining the continuity of the refrigeration chain, thirdly, the centralised decision-making structure allows for the smooth implementation of procedures to limit food waste. The aim of the proposed changes is to include food distributors in existing and implemented mechanisms to prevent the loss of life. The proposed regulation opens up opportunities for traders selling food in commercial units of more than 250 m2 in which revenues from the sale of foodstuffs account for at least 50% revenue from the sale of all goods, to take action to prevent food waste, creating a mechanism to transfer free of charge unsold food products using existing tax credits in this respect. The proposed law introduces regulations defining the obligation of food sellers to prevent food waste, which aims to reduce the negative social, environmental and economic consequences of waste. It obliges the seller referred to above to conclude a social food transfer agreement with the relevant non-governmental organisations. It also provides for the obligation for food sellers to pay fees for the waste of it. The basis for calculating the fee shall be the weight of the food wasted. The funds derived from these fees will be transferred to the organisations with which the seller has concluded a contract. The project entered the Sejm more than a year ago and was addressed to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development. The Commission has appointed a subcommittee to consider this project, which in several meetings discussed the project with a representative of the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development. The result of the committee's work is a draft law presented in print no. 3655. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I recommend the adoption of the bill presented by the High Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u598	Thank you. On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, Mr Paweł Kobyliński. You're welcome. [[Marshal, I'm handing over the amendments right away. There you go.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u599	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As has been said here, countering food waste is our moral duty, especially in the context of the fact that in Poland extreme poverty has increased by 20%, as well as it is an obligation from the point of view of environmental protection, because very much pollution arises in the production of food. This project, ladies and gentlemen, has been created, as I said, in a great consensus. Both the Ministry and the Members of all the options that have worked on this project have put a lot of work into it. Ladies and gentlemen! I hope that during this meeting we will complete the work on this project. The Civic Platform Club - The Civic Coalition has tabled two amendments that were previously discussed in committee. So - initially of course - I hope that we will adopt this proposal at this meeting and that it will be implemented as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u600	The remaining time will be used by Mrs Monica Rosa. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u601	Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! I am very happy that we have managed to work on this project in such a broad consensus. The consultation on this project took a long time, but I think all parties have been satisfied. As Members and Members, we can be aware that this is a very good step towards food not being wasted. Let us be aware that about 9 million tons of food is wasted every year in Poland. With this bill, we may be able to save 100,000. t food. This will have two aspects: the human aspect and the social aspect. In Poland, more than 1.5 million people live in extreme poverty, i.e. such a person has to spend on life and for the basic needs of 600 PLN. Thanks to the proposed law, these people will receive real support in their daily lives, and they will be able to prepare meals for themselves. This law also has an environmental dimension. Currently, to produce e.g. A cheese sandwich or any other food product is consumed by a lot of raw materials, including water. The rotting food emits methane, which affects the climate very badly. I therefore welcome this project with great enthusiasm and satisfaction from many NGOs and individuals, and I am pleased that with such a broad consensus of all political parties this project will work out. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u602	Thank you. Mr Piotr Appeal will perform on behalf of the Kukiz15 club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u603	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We all agree that the project is important and necessary. On the other hand, it is worthwhile here, and we have one of the last meetings, to point out that the rules of Polish law provide that if the procedure over a given law is not completed, it is lost. Therefore, it is now the responsibility of Law and Justice to complete this very good bill before the end of the term of office, so that it does not turn out that it will die because of election time. Therefore, I ask and appeal to the Law and Justice to be carried out by the end of this law, which we all support and from which we all rejoice. Good luck and hope that we will also be able to come up with other ways to save a lot more food, this food, which is often behind and spoils in our homes, and that thanks to this bill there will also be reflection in us, which will make us think about doing our shopping, whether we really need everything and whether we are able to use everything, have thought about whether we can keep this food in the refrigerator, use it to the end, and if not, whether we will find a place where we can give it back and just share it, the more so that even in Poland there are many poor people who need this kind of help. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u604	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Polish People's Party - Coalition Polish Mr Piotr Walkowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u605	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear Complainer Senator Augustine! Despite the late hours, you are with us, making sure that your work begins. The question is why it lasted as long as a year and a half. This law could have been in force for almost a year now. I think that this will be a rhetorical question, because the more important is the effect, that today we are practically at the end of the process over this law, which is primarily characterized by moral, ethical and especially environmental aspects. As my predecessors said here, we need a lot of energy, water, and this year we see that we are running out of water. We're talking about food water. Some rivers turn practically into grooves, and others completely dries up. This problem is likely to affect us in the coming years. Therefore, each kilogram of food produced involves a loss of water which is essential for plant production, for animal production, i.e. for those basic products from which food is produced. I think the procession, as I said, along with the amendments, is going in the right direction. For this reason, on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I request the adoption of the contested law, together with the amendments and the carrying out of its third reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u606	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. You are beginning Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. Time - 1 minute. I'm closing the list of questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u607	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Waste of food is a very important topic. I'm glad there's no bill of controversy about this, we all support it. It's not just environmental protection. It's also thinking about those who are starving, and there's really a lot of them. Of course, it's also about water protection, smog. We know what's going on in our atmosphere. Unfortunately, Poland is ahead of the poisoned environment. In order to stop wasting food, appropriate tax legislation is needed to release donors, not just food distributors. Every year around 9 million tons of food is wasted, and as you know, recently the extreme poverty in Poland has increased by 20%. That's why [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm very happy with this bill, and I hope all the clubs support it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u608	Thank you, although this is the time to ask questions, and the question has not been answered. Mr Henryk Wnorowski, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u609	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The purpose of the bill is noble. Fortunately, we all agree. I have a question for the Minister about the target target. Does the Minister have any knowledge, estimates or guesses where, if adopted, he will place Poland among the countries of the European Union which have the best organised system? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u610	Thank you. Mr Jacek Tomczak, Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u611	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to thank you very much for this project that is important to all of us. I think it's such an optimistic project at the end of my term. I wish there were many such projects that solve such important problems and have a chance to go with full consensus in this Parliament. As regards such in-depth analyses, I wanted to ask the Minister whether we have the data on how broadly this project will address the problems concerned. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u612	Thank you very much. The questions will be answered by the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development... [[Yet...]] Excuse me, madame Maria Nowak, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u613	Thank you, Marshal. In a system that is certainly very important, because it is very important that food is not wasted, food banks are an important element. The signals that came to me, and from the various food banks, are saying that these banks they face major financial difficulties in transport. Minister, how is this solved? Is this also a problem taken into account in the project, and will it really allow proper transport of food from various, sometimes even very remote places to the headquarters or to those warehouses that are the responsibility of food banks? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u614	Thank you. This question and previous questions will be answered by the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u615	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We talk about serious things late at night. I'd like to make a statement. Here one of the Members was quite maliciously explaining, saying: we will see whether they will accept it or not. After all, given the logic of parliamentary democracy, it was possible to prevent this project from being tried at this meeting of the Sejm. We're not doing this to make empty gestures. I am pleased that this law shows that there is consensus and consensus in both the opposition and the ruling party in matters of good - and this certainly brings us closer to good. Waste of food is, as I said, waste of resources that are needed by people in the world. According to FAO data, there are estimated to be around 820 and 830 million starving people in the world, with more than 2.5 billion people suffering from food shortages. Unfortunately, in this civilized world, where more and more problems are solved, and people don't know what to spend their money on, the scale of hunger is expanding. This may not be annoying in the countries of the rich North or in Poland, but we also have poor people who have to choose between buying food and financing other goods needed for life. It is also a waste of environmental resources that can be used for other purposes. This is a waste of human work, both farmers and workers of the processing industry, all those who do this food. This is indeed a gesture showing that where there is no political craving, where there is a desire to solve problems, because we all think that food waste is a bad thing, there is no political cunning, there is no cunning. We want to accept this bill. It also has a practical dimension from the point of view of farmers and food suppliers, which is important. Trade networks have often burdened suppliers with imbalanced purchasing volumes. Too much is ordered, and then responsibility for this food, whose shelf life ends, is passed on to those who delivered it. Therefore, this law, which, although minimally, also imposes penalties on those who are wasting food, may also rationalise purchases and make them more precisely prepared, as this liability in the form of penalties will also mobilise to do so. But I think it's not about penalties, it's about the fact that really this food, which is not in a chain from field to table, in this distribution segment, goes to the consumer, to social organizations specializing in the distribution of food, providing it to the needy, also to collective food establishments, to a diner or to other places where poor people, with life problems, are looking for help. This bill and its entire context should also convince each of us individually... Because it's in our individual behavior that we're also wasting, not just in the store. It's about excessive shopping. This is some kind of obsessive check of the shelf life term, which determines only and until that day the food manufacturer takes responsibility for it, but this does not indicate that the next day this food is not fit for consumption. On the other hand, some exaggeration in drawing conclusions from the date written on the package makes us behaving individually also sometimes very irrational. Some of you at the point where you are asking questions have not asked any questions, and I am therefore not answering that question. On the other hand, Mr Wnorowski expects us to point out if this law functions where it will place us in relation to other European countries. I don't know. I think it's among countries that are honest about food. [[Applause]] On the other hand, what the scope of this law will be, how much food we will save, what percentage it will be, how this level will also increase as a result of the increase in consumer awareness, because there is also the possibility for retailers, probably the biggest educational, training, or work to understand that wasting food is a bad thing... I am absolutely convinced that this is a sin toward the Creator. [[Applause]] That's why we'll see. Many countries use similar mechanisms. Besides, this is described in the explanatory memorandum to the bill. There's no time, especially at hours. 1 a.m. to read this text again. [[Applause]] Mr Tomczak asked how deep this project would solve the problem of waste. We will see how this project will be implemented in the coming years. Only then will we be able to answer such questions. The question of transport costs. This is raised by specialized organizations. They don't all signal it. It seems that those who provide food should also take care of logistics, but let me remind you that there are provisions in the Act on the income of social organisations involved in the distribution of food. Sellers, however, who will come to the conclusion that they prefer to waste food rather than pass it on to a godly purpose, will pay penalties, i.e. on these transport costs, maybe a couple of zlotys will be found. On behalf of the government, I want to make a clear declaration. We are in favour of this project and I hope that we will be able to complete its process at this session of the Sejm so that it enters into force, into our legislation so that we can end, or at least limit, this scandalous, evil and immoral activity of food waste. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u616	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u617	The procedated proposal for a law on combating food waste is an important step. But isn't he worried that he might also have his flaws? Its adoption in its current form will prevent food waste only in commercial establishments, while the problem also concerns production, processing, catering and, above all, consumers. The EU Fusions organisation for the European Commission has indicated that households (53%) are the main source of food waste. ), processing (19% ), gastronomy (12% ), production (11% ) and sales (5%) ). We waste food from ignorance, lack of planning, submission to suggestions - buy more. Is there an even more intensive information campaign to prevent food wasting for households?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u618	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the electoral code law (print No 3662). Ms Anna April will present the reasons for the bill. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u619	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the group of Members, I have the honour to present a draft law amending the electoral code law, print No 3662. The proposed amendment refers to Article. 244 and Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] shall apply mutatis mutandis. 324 Act of the Election Code of 5 January 2011. The proposed amendment to the electoral code is based on the identification of the competent Chamber, which will recognise in full the electoral protests in elections to the Sejm, the Senate and the European Parliament, the protests concerning the validity of the presidential election by indicating that it will be the Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs, and not the Chamber of Labour, Social Insurance and Public Affairs, which was liquidated by the Supreme Court Act of 8 December 2017. It should be stressed that in accordance with Article. 26 The Supreme Court Act is the jurisdiction of the Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs to deal with emergency complaints, to recognise electoral protests and protests against the validity of national referendums and constitutional referendums, and to state the validity of elections and referendums. I would like to stress that the amendment to the article. 324 The electoral code is similar to the amendment contained in Article. 244, i.e. it is an indication of a specific chamber, which will settle in full the protests concerning the validity of the election of the President of the Republic. These amendments aim to maintain consistency between the Supreme Court Act and the electoral code, and at the same time to highlight the importance of the nature of these decisions by the fact that the decisions will be made in full composition, as is apparent from the article. The 77th Supreme Court Act. I therefore ask the High House to adopt this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u620	Thank you very much, Commissioner, for the swift, efficient presentation of the justification. We begin to discuss this item on the agenda. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Anna Milczanowska will speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u621	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed amendment to the electoral code is based on the identification of the competent Chamber, which will recognise the electoral protests to the Sejm and the protests concerning the validity of the presidential elections, by indicating that it will be the Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs, not the Chamber of Labour, Social Insurance and Public Affairs, which was abolished by the Supreme Court Act of 8 December 2017. Another change is the identification of a specific chamber of the Supreme Court which will decide on the validity of the elections to the Sejm, the election of a Member, the elections to the Senate and the European Parliament, as the current article. § 244 § 1 of the electoral code does not specify the composition in which the Supreme Court recognises these matters. The Law and Justice Club supports the project and recommends it for further work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u622	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Szymański will present the position of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u623	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Once again we process late nights about matters very important for Poles and Poles. Because under the cover of adapting the Act to organisational changes that took place under the Act of 3 April 2018 on the Supreme Court, the Sejm is to accept the proposals contained in the draft just amended law, which influences the determination of the validity of elections in Poland. Under the Supreme Court Act, two chambers were established: the Disciplinary Chamber and the Extraordinary and Public Affairs Board. In public space, there are allegations of the legality of their appointment by the new National Judicial Council. According to art. 26 of this law, the main task of the House of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs from the outset is to establish the validity of elections. Shouldn't judges dealing with such important matters be free from all charges and suspicions? There is a risk that this chamber may be a team in which the KRS and the Minister for Justice, which may of course also serve in advance objectives. There are doubts as to the legality of the selection procedure for judges ruling in the Chamber of Extraordinary and Public Affairs. These doubts also concern the correctness of the President's appointment to serve as Supreme Court Judge. Recently, on 7 June, the Supreme Court judges themselves sent to the Constitutional Court a file with legal questions concerning the compatibility with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland of the provisions allowing for applications for the exclusion of judges selected in proceedings by the National Council of the Court in its current composition. Now it remains to wait for the results of this case. It is also interesting why, three months before the elections, Law and Justice are proposing an amendment to the electoral code. Will the amendments actually introduced in the provisions on the compositions of the Supreme Court which recognise electoral matters improve the procedures and clarify the regulations so that they cannot raise doubts There are doubts about the legality of judges and chambers, and not only about the legality of judges and chambers. The entire composition of the Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs of the Supreme Court is to determine the validity of the elections. By upholding the rule of law, we oppose the creation of a law that can be used in a political game. The Court of Justice of the European Union is also important in this regard, but there are proceedings for a preliminary ruling in joined cases. What will happen if it appears that the Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs of the Supreme Court is not within the meaning of the Treaties, and all decisions taken by this House will be considered non-existent? Will the elections then be regarded as non-existent and the old Sejm will function in the right way? What does this law want to bring to law and justice? The Civic Platform Citizens' Coalition Citizens' Club will vote for... against this proposed bill. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Aye.]] [[Voice from the room: Za.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u624	Thank you. Mr Jacek Tomczak, Polish People's Party Club - Coalition Polska. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u625	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are dealing with a law which is supposedly formally describing minor changes, but these changes are de facto fundamental. In the current situation, when numerous proceedings are under way before the TSEU, the rule of law procedure is being examined in Poland, we have many doubts on how the National Courts of Justice are set up and the legality of the appointment of individual judges, it is difficult to decide in this situation In this way, the powers and powers of the House can be resolved on all issues relating to the Senate elections, the Sejm or the election of the President. It seems that these proposals are extremely strange and are rather of further demolished by the Polish justice system by PiS, therefore the PSL Club - Coalition Poland will not support these changes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u626	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. You are beginning Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. One minute. I'm closing the list of questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u627	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Under the cover of the night and at the last minute, the PiS changes the electoral law. It's about determining the validity of elections. I ask: Why did you decide to change the law so quickly and just before the election? The validity of the elections would be decided by the Chamber of Emergency Control set up by the PiS by a decision of the only right party, i.e. elected by the members of the PiS, by a parliamentary majority. In a moment, ladies and gentlemen, you will choose for yourselves. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u628	Thank you. Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, please ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u629	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Since this is a parliamentary project, we should also know the position of the government, because the government is the representative of the party that is in charge, but none of the government is in the Chamber today, so you can't ask the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister or anyone, the Minister of Justice, what he thinks about it. Then, when you guys started plotting, I'm going to use this word specifically, in front of the Supreme Court, one of the arguments that fell then, why you're doing this, was to influence the validity of the election. It's been known for months that you want to... [[Voice from the room: What?]] The falsifying election was in you to know, to have an instrument... [[The voice from the room: But you're lying.]] ...which will invalidate the election. What's gonna happen to your bill today... [[Voice from the room: What are you saying?]] ...if it turns out that this chamber is unlawfully established, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That the President has no right to appoint judges and the TSUE will rule that this chamber is gone? [[Voice from the hall: She is according to the law.]] What are you gonna do if within a few weeks it turns out this chamber needs to be closed down? [[Voice from the hall: But she has been since 2017.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u630	Mr Jacek Tomczak, Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland. [[I'm just in the form of a corrigendum...]] [[Voice from the room: You don't have to.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u631	In fact, it is very interesting what the government's opinions on this bill would be. Let us note that, unfortunately, there will be politicians in this Chamber to a large extent. Should politicians decide for themselves the elections to the Sejm, the Senate or the office of the President of Poland? Let us be honest: this is an unprecedented, reprehensible and unacceptable situation. In these cases, there should be no politicians in such formations, especially as they will decide to some extent about themselves. [[Just like they were before.]] These are not European standards, these are really Eastern standards. This can't be duplicated. This bill, this project... Let us hope that you will withdraw from it, because this is a project that is harmful and unacceptable. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u632	Excuse me, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz will ask another question, the Civic Platform - the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u633	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There was a tradition that, a few months before the election, no one was messing with the election board. You do it, you do it in the form of a parliamentary project to avoid any consultation. The question is what is the position of the government - that was already the question - and what is the position of the State Election Commission. You haven't even asked the State Election Commission what she thinks about this. I'm surprised the state didn't include in this bill that the fall election won the PiS. I suggest you write it down because you guys are capable of anything... [[You don't have to write it down.]] You're willing to vote it all out. The biggest stupidity you can vote on. You have the majority, and unfortunately most of your laws... [[Voice from the room: Don't yell.]] ...this is the biggest stupidity and destruction of Poland. [[Voice from the room: Are you relieved?]] And the problem is, when you win the election, the election is fine, and if you lose, you say it's fake. What guarantee do we have that when you lose the election, you won't question these choices and you'll say sorry, but they're fake. And who's gonna decide that. She'll decide. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs Chamber, which you're calling yourselves. Brilliant solution. Congratulations. [[But she is.]] [[You are geniuses in destroying our country's democracy.]] [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u634	And the last question will be asked by Monika Rosa, the Civic Platform - the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u635	Mrs. Marshalkini! Honourable Members! The hour is very late, too late to process such serious changes in the electoral code. I wanted to ask you a question: Why is this amendment of the bill now? What are the main reasons why this bill should be submitted right now? Why was there a choice for such an E.R. to approve the validity of the election? I also wanted to ask you whether you have an imagination about the consequences that will be in Poland if you decide about this, and it is likely that the members of the Chamber were not chosen correctly, that it was a political chamber, chosen only by PiS politicians. How enormous consequences Poland and the electoral system are facing. I wanted to ask for a legal analysis from this speaker before the vote. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Today we do not vote.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u636	This question and the previous questions will be answered by the representative of the applicants, Anna April.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u637	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I think you don't need these emotions for a really small one, you might say... It is not so much a matter of detail as of ordering certain records. In 2017, the Supreme Court Act was adopted by the Sejm, in which the Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs was established and the Chamber of Labour, Social Insurance and Public Affairs was liquidated. Unfortunately, in the current legislation, the definition of the Chamber of Labour, Social Insurance and Public Affairs continues to appear in the electoral code. Therefore, we simply need to sort out this terminology. On the other hand, the allegation that the Board of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs is biased is completely unfounded. I have a question. Are the 20 judges who sit in this Chamber, and among them are practically judges with academic degrees of doctor-habilitated and are people who lecture or lecture at such universities as: University of Warsaw, UMCS, University of Łódź, University of Gdansk... Do you accuse these 20 distinguished judges of lack of such qualities as impartiality and independence? I don't want to quote names, but these are people with huge judicial achievements, with huge scientific baggage, and you dare to accuse the state of not having such qualities. I'd really be ashamed. I think you're saying this based on your experience. This amendment is really an amendment that only cleans up and standardizes, and there is no political subtext here, that's all. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u638	Thank you. I have a proposal to correct Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska, but Mrs... Okay, but one minute. Please, I'm not gonna stall anymore. [[But we weren't referring to you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u639	Thank you very much. I didn't get an answer to my question. I guess you didn't understand me. This chamber exists. The fact that you didn't amend other laws in creating this chamber is just an expression of how you create things quickly, so you create bubbles, and now you're repairing it for no reason at all. But my question was a different question, Mrs President. At the moment, there is a case in the Court of Justice in Europe concerning the correctness of the appointment of these judges - without referring to the names, only concerning the process of the formation of this Chamber itself. And what will happen when the European Court finds that the establishment of this Chamber involves the stubbornness of its action, the improper representation? [[Voice from the Chamber: We do not know... Member.]] What are you gonna do if you're updating today because you don't have to? [[♪ The bell ♪]] to this Chamber to submit a study on the validity of elections? It's just a matter of getting the party to decide whether the election is important or not. [[Don't embarrass yourself... presumptuously.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u640	Thank you, Madam President. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Parliament's draft law amending the electoral code in print No 3662, to the Extraordinary Commission for the examination of draft electoral law laws for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for July 17th this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. So I'm closing the list. And you are starting Alicia Chybick. I don't see a Member. Mrs Maria Nowak, Law and Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u641	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday was the 125th anniversary of Henryk Sławik's birth, one of the heroic sons of the Upper Silesian land, who devoted his life to the cause of Poland and Poles. Over the years, this figure has been forgotten and underestimated, which is why I am pleased that today this man is more and more often shown as an example for us and a role model for the next generations. Henryk Sławik was born on 16 July 1895 in Szeroka, today it is part of the town of Hawk-Zdrój. During World War I he fought as many inhabitants of Upper Silesia in the Prussian Army. After returning home he was an active participant of all three Silesian uprisings. In the interwar period he lived in Katowice and actively joined social, local and political life. After the aggression of the Third Reich and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics against Poland in September 1939, he was in Hungary, where he headed the Civic Committee for the Care of Polish Refugees. Organized assistance for interned military and civilian refugees. He helped to travel to the West in cooperation with a delegate of the Hungarian government, József Antall. He organized documents for refugees, which many of them, including a large group of Jews fleeing Poland, saved their lives. After the German army seized Hungary in 1944, he was arrested. He didn't give up his coworkers in the investigation, he took full responsibility. On 23 August 1944, he was murdered in the German concentration camp Mauthausen. This heroic figure during the PRL period was completely forgotten. It was not until the second decade of the 20th century that attempts were made to restore it to the collective memory of our nation. In 2010, a commemorative plaque was unveiled in Katowice. In 2014, a permanent exhibition was opened in his hometown, Jastrzebie-Zdrój. In 2015 before the building of the International Congress Centre in Katowice, the monument of Henryk Sławik and József Antall was unveiled, while the city council of Katowice gave the square before Spodek in Katowice the name of: Sławik and Antall Square. I am glad that this unique character is now honored and promoted throughout Poland. We need such examples, such heroes, both in times of war and in times of peace, because the attitude of sacrifice and devotion to our homeland and to our neighbors is important at all times and under all circumstances. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u642	Thank you. Mr Mieczysław Kazimierz Baszko made a written statement. In that case, Mr Kurzepa. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u643	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Bridesmaids and Bridesmaids, my dear friends in Girl Scout uniforms! I come to you traditionally at night, like another sentry, to whisper the password to change the watch. Poland is calling you. Before I hear a response, would you please listen to my seym report? It's the end of my debut term. What will be the election verdict of Poles, I do not know, but I feel obliged to report to you on how practically, according to our Boy Scout promise, I served for the country, called to it by lubuszan, who entrusted me with a parliamentary mandate. First of all, the rules. As you know perfectly well, quoting Andrzej Małkowski, you become a Boy Scout for life. Therefore, the rules we adopt when making scouting promises and obligations under the Scouting Law should not be invalidated and relativised by the fact that you are an adult, that you are a politician. For there is no in our lives, when we are aware of our scouting roots, any but which would invalidate and weaken the power of scout rules, among others. Knightly behavior, nobility of attitude, civil courage and truthfulness. You can rely on a Boy Scout's word as much as you can on Zawisza. You all know what that means. In the role of a Member, it is invaluable: for a politician to be respected, he must be credible. If he's committed to something, he has to keep it. I tried. And the school of fidelity to the word I got in the scouting ranks of my brothers. Thank you for the scouting for the gutter, for the preparation. Second, service. Nothing for yourself, everything for others, not for your own glory, but for others and for the good of all. This is our scouting abecada, starting with the service in the host, later the strain or the huff, you are constantly working for others, the other man, the neighbor, but also for Poland, the big one and the small one. It is no wonder that the role of the envoy has worked out for me. I found myself in it because I like people, whatever they are. They are always a challenge for me to help them, to accompany them, to listen. I'm inspired by another man and he's mobilizing himself to develop over and over again. For there are also such, and there are many of them who are better than me, nobler, wiser. I envy their advantage. It makes me active, but not to fight them, but to develop themselves through their talents. It was in our scouting adventures, camps, fire-breathing I trained sensitivity and tenderness towards man. That gave me scouting, and for that, bridesmaids and bridesmaids, thank you. Third, responsibility. I've always been in a Boy Scouting job, I've been responsible for something, I've had to take that responsibility, or I've been entrusted with it. As always in our Girl Scout ritual, when you get an organizational assignment, you don't resist and refuse. Our Boy Scouting style tells us to answer then: service. And get to work. Therefore, whatever happened in the Seym, in my political environment or in my parliamentary work, I always answered: service, doing the best I can, because that's the way it should be, otherwise I can't, I don't like it, because it's among you scouts I've learned a good job. Now what? For now, I'm off the watch, maybe for a second, maybe I'll come back. I liked this place despite all its unpredictableness and emotional confusion. This was not difficult, for in a situation where you are sure of your principles, you are fully aware of what you are, you do not break either under the pressure of brutalization of the world of politics or its servility, you retain your nobility. And you're okay with that. For this nobility, I thank the Boy Scouts, my dear motherfather. But I think I have to go. I heard a response to my call: Poland is calling you. He's another Boy Scout. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Says the service. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u644	Mr Artur Dunin, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u645	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As promised, dear Compassion! The people of Zgierz's Surroundings! Dear Boats! And all those close to ecology! According to the declaration, as promised today, I informed Prime Minister Morawiecki about the Polish Chernobyl, about the ecological bomb, about the landfill of hazardous waste in Zgierz located in old Boruta areas. The Prime Minister found out about this environmental threat, about the fact that this landfill of hazardous waste is a threat to the people and residents of the area, their lives and health. After listening - I will quote here - the Prime Minister said that he would look at the problem. In accordance with the commitment that I have made to you by collecting signatures for the petition, I have submitted this petition to the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers. This petition was received by the Minister, Secretary of State Mr Łukasz Schreiber. Here's proof of today's petition. It was thanks to you, nearly $3,000. people who signed up for this petition, thanks to people who care about the health and life of zgierzani, but I think that also the whole of Poland, because it all penetrates into the ground and flows into the water, into the river Bzura and flows on. I believe deeply that pressure makes sense. I believe it's nearly $3,000. Signatures and your fight for health and life will not be in vain. Because we're fighting for our lives. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u646	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Jan Szyszko, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u647	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, I am forced to make this statement after hearing the debate on the attempt to dismiss Minister Kowalczyk. Well, during this debate, Mr Kosiniak-Kamish allowed himself to say that more trees are cut out than he thinks. And he is a representative of PSL, who seems to know that the forestist in Poland is growing and the stock is also increasing, so apparently more is planted than cut. Unless he means such big cities as Warsaw, where the categories of land use and forests are changed, it is a completely different matter. Then two people, Mrs Lenartowicz and Mrs Pomaska, who also allowed herself to quote the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 17 April 2018. I declare that either you have not seen him - or you have not seen him - have never seen him in your life, or you are deliberately missing the truth, and this is not ethical. The situation is completely different, namely it was our predecessors who led to the death of over 3,000 Białowieża Forest in the Natura 2000 area. ha habitats important for Europe, several million trees with a mass of more than 6.5 million m3 and a value of more than 1,200 million zlotys, and at the same time where the trees fell and habitats disappeared, species important for Europe died. And that's what we're gonna have to recreate. That is what the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union says. So either deliberately passing the truth, or deliberate misinformation, and both do not agree. It is unacceptable that here in the Seym, in this House, where there are national symbols, a white and red flag, an eagle with a crown and a cross, thereby disinformed the public. I would also like to say that each of the ladies, like each Member, has been fully informed about the conduct of two meetings of the Court of Justice of the European Union on the Białowieża Forest. Members received the full text of the judgment and received a call for dialogue on the basis of specific data, and these data are collected by more than 200 specialists, cost more than PLN 5 million and are collected throughout the forest. So deliberate manipulation, misinformation, or simply no ethical basis? I declare that those who do this should not sit in this room, where there are these three symbols: the Polish flag, the eagle with the crown and the cross. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u648	Thank you. Mr Dariusz Bąk, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u649	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! There shouldn't be moral bankrupts in our country. This is not permitted by our history, which bears witness to the true martyrdom of the nation and the Church. Bar conspiracy, partitions, national uprisings, 123 years of captivity, wars, invasions, communism with all the cruelty destroying patriotism and everything connected with Catholic faith. This is our past, which should be a warning and a teacher of life. In Poland we are dealing with the situation that there are forces and people who are willing to do the evil will of someone who wants to humiliate Poles. As Catholics, believers, we should protest against destroying holiness, attacking the Church, holy faith and places so connected with our history as Jasna Góra. Attacks on our homeland are almost always preceded by attacks on the Church, enemies know that a nation without the power of spirit is easier to enslave. This can be seen after World War II, during the communism period, when everything was actually banned. In the prison records, Stefan Cardinal Wyszyński, Polish Primate, is imprisoned. On March 13, 1956, 1 day after Bolesław Bierut's trash, he wrote down, quote, "His name will now be associated in the history of the nation and the Church with these terrible harms that were done to the Church... he allowed such a perfidious plan to be carried out - to sleep alertness with the hands of progressive Catholics - and to gradually silence so many religious and religious institutions... The press, almost all magazines and bookstores and publications were destroyed, including official bodies - diocesan curias; ecclesiastical charity was destroyed, many educational and caring institutions, Catholic education and hospitalization were destroyed; many monasteries and religious houses were destroyed, including religious schools for internal purposes. Terrible rapes committed on prisoners, priests, and monks during investigations, overly severe judicial sentences, resulting in prisons being populated with cassocks and habit - a great and painful chapter of these governments. End of quote. There is no exaggeration in these words, for it is written by an incorruptible man, the Primate of the Millennium, imprisoned for 3.5 years in Rywałd, Stochek Warmiński, Prudnik Śląski and Komańczy, isolated from the Church and tormented to say, quote, "You will not make me hate you." This is how God's merciful love works, and from it comes the power of a spirit that will not be broken by any defeat. End of quote. I remind you of the words of Primate Wyszynski to illustrate the thought of today's situation. Those who offend Catholics, desecrate sacred images, deny the laws of logic, humiliate man, in fact bear witness to their own infirmity, because every day on the Polish Jasna Góra people raise their eyes to heaven, to the one who ordered herself to be called Queen of Poland and sing: Bless you, sweet Lady. Let us join the true believers who call: Do not take away from the children the true image of the world, do not despise normality, do not frighten believers with the lack of European values, do not think that you will destroy the Church again, take away the dignity they deserve. The fight against the spiritual identity of Poles will not succeed, and this is confirmed by the next words of the Primate, which sound like a touching parable. I quote: the crow's seat on the forehead of the elevated fir. She looked in power around her and shouted a victory cry. It seems that the fir owes her everything: its existence, its slender beauty, its permanent greenness, its strength in the fight against winds. The nerve of the crows is admirable. A great benefactor standing silently in the fir. And the fir doesn't move, and the stupendous one pulls out the branches to the sky, [[♪ The bell ♪]] He's putting up with a quietly screaming guy. Nothing will cloud her mind, her seriousness, her peace, after all, so many clouds have passed over her forehead. They went after you went. This isn't your place, you don't feel sure, and that's why you're screaming and making up for your lack of valor. You're gonna go...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u650	Mr President, we are going to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u651	Well, you're gonna be able to work with someone, and I'm gonna stay here to stay. Let us be courageous in defending the obvious and universal rights. Let us defend our Catholic faith and our Polish homeland.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u652	Thank you. Mr Henryk Wnorowski, Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u653	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to dedicate my statement to activities that promote the cultural heritage of the historical land of Łomża in connection with the 45th anniversary of the existence of the Łomża Scientific Society to them. Wags. One of the most active associations, among others. promoting the historical heritage of the land of Łomżyńska is Łomżyńskie Scientific Society n.e.i. Wags that celebrate the 45th anniversary of the uprising this year. The aim of the company is to promote science, inspire and conduct scientific research, especially taking into account the historical land of Łomża and the area of north-eastern Poland. An important element of the statutory activity of the Lomżyn Scientific Society is the collection of scientific materials with particular regard to the land of Łomżyn, its historical past, its achievements, as well as cultural and linguistic separation. In recent years, the Lomżyn Scientific Society (Lomżyn Science Society). Wagów has undertaken a research project: Poznan and memory: the historical heritage of Łomża land in its sources (XV-XX century). Identity of persons and places - in the 600th anniversary of Łomża city rights: the Łomża castle (XIV-XVIII c.), the capital of the department (1807-1815) and the governor (1867-1918) financed by the Ministry of Science and Higher Education as part of a very inspiring and helpful research association of the The main idea of the project developers is to save and restore the memory of the former inhabitants of the historical land of Łomża and the Mazowiecko-Podlaskie border, so that the next generations of their descendants have the basis for conscious recognition of their identity and the worthy and effective use, protection and co-creation of the heritage they have acquired. To this end, the interdisciplinary team of the Mazovia and Podlasie Cultural Heritage Research Laboratory, which operates in the Łomża Scientific Society, conducts extensive excerpts of handicraft and printed sources and translates some of them to create a generally accessible monumental documenting base which confirms cultural heritage and shows the identity of the historical land of Łomża and the Mazowiecko-Podlaskie border. through the history of names and their hosts. The aim here is primarily to gather in one place distributed source materials, which would identify people and places in the context of time and various situations and events taking into account the values of the source and the form in which the contents describing people and places are recorded. The result of the project is the website www.name.lomza. en. It contains source materials about the historical land of Łomża, places and persons associated with this area. The materials and sources published on it are among others. a good starting point to search for its roots and identify the inhabitants of Łomża land. As a Member, I support initiatives that promote the culture and heritage of the north-eastern region of Mazovia and its history, which are a contribution to building national identity. Individuals, initiatives and institutions to discover and disseminate the region's heritage should be appreciated and, as a result, their survival and awareness-raising should be built. Such an institution is undoubtedly Łomżyńskie Scientific Society n.e.i. Wags. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u654	Thank you very much. The last one will be on the parliamentary statements, Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u655	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Poles complain about high food prices. Since the beginning of the year, the prices of many groceries have increased by up to a dozen percent. The Central Statistical Office has confirmed that inflation has now been at the highest level for 7 years and that for the first time in 7 years it is higher than the inflation target set out in the Budget Act. We need decisive steps from the government. Drought, ladies and gentlemen, can no longer be an explanation for the fact that parsley is so expensive. Drys have been present and before and there have been no such prices, and it has never cost parsley 30 PLN for 1 kg, and potatoes were not 7 PLN for 1 kg. The current government has failed to cope with the effects of drought, even with payments to farmers for lost crops. By rising food prices they lose the poorest, because we spend most of our money on food. Inflationary basket contains many items, food is not even half of this basket. For the poorest it will not be a consolation to fall prices, e.g. cars or other luxury goods. For those with the lowest income inflation is significantly higher than income growth. In June, the fastest price increase was recorded in the food and non-alcoholic drinks category, where prices were 5.7% higher than a year ago. This year's valorization of pensions of 2,86% even halfway through, it has not even offset the rise in food prices. Ladies and gentlemen! The current government boasts that thanks to it Poles have more and more money. That's not true, because in one pocket money is added in the form of social money, and in the other pocket it is drawn out in the form of even this inflation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-17-sejm-84-1.u656	Thank you. This was the last parliamentary statement. I therefore manage the adjournment until noon. 9 today, i.e. 18 July 2019 Thank you very much. Good night, ladies and gentlemen. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 1 min 49]]
