ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u1	Resume session. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that today, after considering points 20 and 21 of the first, i.e. the report of the National Radio and Television Council and information on the activities of the National Media Council, we will proceed with the examination of the 18th and 19th paragraphs, i.e. Act on the Polish Institute of International Affairs and the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the United States. We will then consider point 16, i.e. Law amending the pharmaceutical law, and point 17th, i.e. Act on the amendment of the Act on recognition as invalid of judgments handed down against persons repressed for activities for the independent existence of the Polish State. I would like to remind you that a photo of the 9th term senators will be taken together at 12.30. Gather round in the lobby on the ground floor. Ladies and gentlemen, anonymous surveys on impact assessments have been distributed on the desktops to our initiatives, which have been prepared by the Legislative Office since 2016. The head of the Senate is asking for these surveys to be filled in and submitted to a transparent urn, which is located in the so-called. Aquarium, which is in the hall at the entrance to my right. The aim of the survey is to get to know the senators' opinion on the usefulness of OSR in parliamentary work. Expressed opinions and guidance will be extremely valuable to OSR-makers and will be used to draw up further such documents. This is a unique study. So far, similar studies have not been carried out in any other parliament. We proceed with the joint consideration of item 20 and item 20 of the first agenda: the report of the National Radio and Television Council in 2018 together with information on the basic problems of radio and television in 2018; information on the activities of the National Media Council in 2018. The text of the report of the National Radio and Television Council is contained in print No. 1192, and the information of the National Media Council In print No 1136. The reports of the Committee on Culture and Communications on these documents are contained in prints Nos 1192 S and 1136 S. I would like to welcome to the Senate the President of the National Radio and Television Council, Minister Witold Kołodziejski. I ask the President to take the floor and present the report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u2	Thank you very much. High Izbo! The National Radio and Television Council shall report annually to the Sejm, the Senate, the President, as well as to the President of the Council of Ministers on its activities for the preceding year and on the fundamental problems of radio and television, in accordance with Article. The 12th Radio and TV Act. This year there has been an important change, a legal change, namely the reporting documents of the National Radio and Television Council are presented at a new legal date, which is 31 May. Let me remind you that this was until the end of March of the year following the reporting year. The delay by the end of May enabled the National Council to provide the most up-to-date information on the financial and economic situation of public media, as the financial statements of these media are transmitted to the National Council in April. So that the current report already contains up-to-date data on the financial situation of public media companies in 2018. The report contains information on the implementation of the various statutory tasks of the National Radio and Television Council, including tasks related to the conduct of concession proceedings, control over the activities of broadcasters, of course always within the limits strictly defined by law. I emphasize that because there are often misunderstandings in this context. The Radio and Television Act contains specific exceptions which may, in a sense, restrict the constitutional principle of freedom of expression and the right of the sender, the independent and exclusive right of the sender to form his programme. In addition, the National Council informs about tasks relating to subscription fees, fixing their amount, distribution to public broadcasters collected by the Polish Post of funds. There is also information related to the organisation of international cooperation, information on the issue of legal instruments, the opinion of legal acts and international agreements on the basis of the laws of the law. This year we additionally informed about how to organize research on content and reception of media services within the framework of the project "New telemetry." Ladies and gentlemen, the report, as every year, is accompanied by information for 2018, i.e. analysis of selected market phenomena and processes, found in the latter part, in a separate document entitled "Information on basic radio and television problems in 2018. Ladies and gentlemen, among the fundamental problems that were raised in 2018 by the National Radio and Television Council... On the one hand, it was a consequence of constant technological progress. We're on the eve of work... I mean. then we were, the year 2018 was a year of work on the so-called. a mega-issue introduced by the Ministry of Digitization in connection with 5G technology. I remind you that this technology will also have a direct impact on the audiovisual market, the media market. But during this work there was also an urgent need to update the strategy of the National Radio and Television Council on terrestrial television. This was also the year 2014... Besides, this strategic document is being prepared, I mean the strategy of the KRRIT, the state strategy for the years 2017 and 2022. I am talking about this because today there are discussions about how this market is to be arranged in the future. We decided to leave six television multiplexes in the plan. Let me remind you that today 4 are being used, so 2 more will be used for distribution. In 2022, i.e. at the time when Poland is already obliged to finally release the 700 MHz band for the Internet in 5G technology... At the same time, we are making technological changes with regard to digital terrestrial television, we are moving to DVB-T2 codec HEVC, which translates in turn This is also a decision of the national council For the introduction as a standard of high-resolution terrestrial television. So, in short, there's going to be a technological change that you need to prepare for. We are currently investigating the saturation of the household market with modern television sets, such as those that allow the reception of the signal in this standard. On the other hand, we do not announce any increase in the offer of free terrestrial television. We have also taken into account the market situation of the current broadcasters. We're forecasting growth. not quantitative, but qualitative. So the high resolution standard, HD, is going to be the standard for all terrestrial television. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the tasks of the National Radio and Television Council is to protect pluralism in the media. Here we pay attention to important documents that were developed and introduced in 2018. These are international documents. E.g. On 7 March 2018, the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers adopted a recommendation on media pluralism and transparency. He pointed out the introduction of appropriate legislation on the control of the concentration of property in the media, their financing and the promotion of transparency of ownership. Public access to database information showing the structure of media ownership... The document stated that the law must also ensure that independent regulators can develop information on media structure and ownership. I am talking about this because 2018 is also the year of further consolidation or concentration on the media market. Well, there was a continuation of the sale process of the entire group of Scripps, to which TVN belonged, and the acquisition by Discovery. There's been quite a concentration here. Well, and the process that's still going on right now, i.e. the purchase of Eurozet by Agora and the SFS Ventures fund with the call option for Agora. Today this media group announces a desire to implement the call option. So there will be a connection of two radio groups, one belonging to Agora, the other to Eurozet. I recall this recommendation from the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, because we have been talking about it from the beginning, warning that these are very dangerous processes. As it turns out, they are dangerous processes throughout Europe. And here the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers recommends mechanisms to introduce far-reaching ownership transparency. That's what we're trying to do, too. In addition, we have proposed certain anti-concentration or protection provisions against the negative effects of concentration in the media, because we believe that this is what protects pluralism. Pluralism, ladies and gentlemen, we understand as a pluralism of the media market - that is how it is understood. I remind you that in Poland we have several large radio groups and several large television groups, so we think that on a European scale we have a very strong and very diverse television and radio market, but unfortunately the market processes that are currently taking place threaten this diversity. Yes? Ladies and gentlemen, as far as radio is concerned, 2018 was the year when I granted further analogue concessions, because there is still such demand, although these resources are long gone, so these are only narrow local concession procedures. But this year we launched 7 big announcements on digital radio. I remind you that so far, it seems that since 2013, Polish Radio broadcasts in the DAB+ system, but not throughout Poland, only in selected locations, in larger agglomerations. We have now opened this market for commercial radio, but local radio. We started with such small announcements − 7 in 2018. And it was already in 2019 that the deadlines passed, so I can immediately say that we already know what the interest is. Several dozen applicants showed interest, so there is a chance that in some locations the entire 12-seater multiplex will be filled. We hope for the development of this radio technology, because all parameters and arguments indicate that when it comes to broadcast technology, this technology is incomparably better than analogue technology. So if the radio in the form of broadcasting has a future, it only has it in digital form. I am speaking specifically, if there is a future for such a form of radio, because today there is a discussion whether such a form of media, in connection with the implementation of 5G technology, will still be right whether the entire media movement will not simply move to IP technology, Internet technology. As far as DAB+ is concerned, I would like to remind you that last year, i.e. this reporting year, the European Parliament adopted the European Electronic Communications Code. This code includes: talks about requirements for radio receivers permanently installed in cars - that they must enable the reproduction of radio services provided by terrestrial digital radio broadcasting. So since 2020, actually all cars produced in the European Union must be able to receive the DAB+ radio in the car. Poland must, of course, implement the relevant rules by then. Member States have 2 years to implement. I've already told you about digital television. Ladies and gentlemen, 2018 is also the beginning of the countdown on the implementation of the revised Audiovisual Media Services Directive. I would like to remind you that according to the commitments of Poland and other Member States, Poland has until 19 September 2020 to implement this directive, so there is certainly very little time. We have already started consultations on certain assumptions to the law, although appropriate consultations will, of course, be conducted by the Ministry of Culture, probably on the path of a normal legislative path. What does the new directive bring? Well, it imposes, among other things. new responsibilities for video-sharing platforms include platforms such as: YouTube. Certain obligations will be imposed, among others. concerning the protection of minors, but the Directive also points to other negative content that could be found on these sites. The State has a duty to control and protect the recipients who receive audiovisual content online. There are new provisions concerning the promotion of European works, including those concerning VOD, i.e. websites. There's gonna be some responsibilities here, too. It is changing, it is liberalizing, ladies and gentlemen, the approach to advertising times, namely this 20% maximum limit, which today is imposed on 1 hour of the programme, will be counted differently. Today, I'll remind you, it's 20% of the time that this is the maximum advertising time that can be included in the program. Well, 12 minutes is the maximum time. Sometimes we think there's more, but it's because the broadcasters divide advertising blocks and put in the middle of the announcements of the sender, sometimes self-promotion function. Information about the program, announcements, etc., etc. Now the limit of 20% will be maintained. but he will be counted in 2 blocks Not every hour, only in 2 blocks, between 6.00 and 6.00 and between 6.00 and 24.00. This may result in peak viewing hours, e.g. between 8 p.m. and 21.30 p.m. , advertising will be cumulative, will last longer than the previous 12 minutes. The new Directive also simplifies territorial jurisdiction, introduces new cooperation procedures between Member States. It is about cooperation between European offices, such national radio and television councils. This is to be simplified due to the changing media landscape. There are more and more delocalised broadcasters, and there are more and more common cases involving different regulatory authorities. We often deal with the British office, namely Ofcom, Dutch or recently Italian. As far as national law is concerned, then, of course, the National Council does not have a legislative initiative, but it has expert and supportive functions in the legislative process. Let me remind you that last year we accepted There was also a heated discussion about the amendment of the Act on Radio and Television in the context of public media, introducing a public media obligation card and programming and financial plans. We are in the process of implementing these laws, i.e. we agree on the first in the history of Polish public media credit cards. These are the documents that define missionary activity and which clearly tell what and in what amounts public money may be spent. I will tell you immediately that the needs of the planned missionary activities are far beyond the current subscription possibilities. I have already mentioned that the National Council has undertaken to organise research into the content and reception of media services. These are the projects under which the National Council on the basis of a statutory delegation dealt with telemetry and audiometry, together with the SGH. At our request, SGH prepared a founder's survey, which we conducted on a sample of 2 000 600 farms. Together with the Institute of Communications, we analyze the possibility of developing data from television decoders. For today it seems that at least 5 million of these data, which have been identified of course, can easily be obtained and on this basis speak very specifically about what the ratings of individual programs look like, what the behavior of the viewer looks like. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a new, even revolutionary tool because it allows us to observe in a single-second resolution how these behaviors of viewers change. And this isn't about a few thousand-dollar panel, we're hoping that up to 90%. Households, fixed TVs may be covered by such measurement. This is an extraordinary tool not only for researchers, but above all for television broadcasters themselves, who get very accurate measurement. As far as commercial value is concerned, it is necessary to build a normal telemetry panel And that's what we've done, we're in a dialogue with the market. We made such an experimental panel on 400-person panelists equipped with personal meters, which continuously monitor this media activity of the panelist, and are equipped with motion sensors. So that a whole range of data from this panel can be obtained now and in the future. Of course, these are data obtained from panelists who give their full consent to this, they sign the relevant contracts. We hope that this activity of the National Council will bring about a consolidation of the market, which means that there will finally be a group of television broadcasters who will speak with one voice about their research needs. Already created such a group And it works very closely with us from advertisers and media houses, a coalition for new media research has been established, with which we work very closely. TV operators of pay platforms, i.e. cable operators, satellite operators also want to join in and join in organizing themselves into their groups. So in this market... This may be a topic closer to specialists, but, ladies and gentlemen, this is a tool that feeds the entire market for television and radio advertising, that is what the media in Poland maintains, mainly commercial, because public should be maintained with a subscription, but also in a large part of the public. In short, here is the revolution we started last year and we will continue this year. We cooperate with the Warsaw School of Economics, we want to sign a large contract with the Institute of Communications, as well as with the NASK Institute, for this kind of work. Ladies and gentlemen, in the report we have detailed information on the licence influences. Let me just say in general that it was PLN 741 million 500 thousand. Last year, compensation was still granted - PLN 673 million. This is the compensation that was still voted out in December 2017, it was paid in 2 tranches and this 673 million is the second tranche of over 900 million, which in 2017 were granted in December. In total, these subscription receipts amounted to PLN 1 billion 414 million 500 thousand, of which, please countries, public television received, from the subscription itself, PLN 385 million 500 thousand, Polish Radio PLN 186 million 300 thousand, and regional radio companies received PLN 169 million 700 thousand. Ladies and gentlemen, the percentage breakdown of the subscription is as follows: public television. 52%, 25% Radio, 23% Regional companies. And yet, as you will see in the tables... Later, compensation was compensated and here the compensation for television was 88% , i.e. the majority was transferred to the Polish Television S.A. and 7% and almost 5% forwarded respectively to the Polish Radio and regional companies. If you look later at the reports, you will see that the ratio between the costs of television activities, this missionary television activity, and radio costs is like 1:9, and sometimes actually 1:10. Hence the much larger share of public television's own revenues and the very small real share of subscription money in the budget, which is particularly clear when compared to last year's financial statements of companies. The compensation slightly improved this balance sheet, but still their percentage in the entire company's budget is incomparably lower than in the case of national radio or regional companies. We also have, ladies and gentlemen, information on complaints, we have information on requests to the National Council for redemption and distribution of subscription arrears into instalments. I remind you that this is related to the activity of Polish Post and tax offices which are obliged The judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal has been in 2012, if I remember correctly. For recovery actions in respect of arrears. So today, any information about not paying a subscription has unfortunately very serious consequences, because these offices of office are sending reminders first, and then prescriptive decisions, recovery decisions for debtors, because then debt is already arising. And we deal with these situations very often. Well, in fact, over the last five years, hundreds of thousands of applications for redemption or payment have been received by us, often very dramatic, in connection with the situation of the household in question, for which, by some misunderstanding, by some unattainable, bad signal from the public subscribers, they stopped paying, and then they grew in debt. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by talking about the initiative of the National Council, the Round Media Table. A number of other, smaller, already detailed initiatives took place within the framework of the project. We signed it right now. It's a new message. The agreement on the protection of children in advertising. And it is both about protecting children from the harmful influence of advertising, and about protecting children who participate in it, i.e. children's actors in advertising. This is a typical self-regulatory act. The National Council only patronized the project, but it was within the framework of the Round Table and the joint communication that all broadcasters signed a code of good practice that they committed themselves to applying. This is an incredibly positive achievement, because it first of all exempts the State from the obligation of a difficult and ambiguous process of quality control of this type of content. The environment itself is committed to this. There is also an agreement between broadcasters, i.e. a self-regulatory act related to disability. And there is a question of amenities concerning vision and hearing impairment. In this case, the Code has also been signed, there is an agreement. Also on rules for the dissemination of advertising and sponsorship information on foodstuffs and beverages... This is about unhealthy food. These problems have also been addressed through environmental declarations and codes on a self-regulatory and general consensus basis. This is worth emphasising because we believe that this is the best way to regulate such a sensitive market as the media market. The work of the round media table has also been initiated and far gone. We are talking here about the agreement between TV broadcasters to determine the volume level of the broadcasts. The point is that the broadcasters commit themselves and then make sure that the sound level in all the broadcasts is uniform and that there is no effect of volume jumping when switching from channel to channel. A code of good practice is being prepared when it comes to advertising dietary supplements. This is a case that was very difficult to regulate, actually there were only two proposals: either to do nothing or to ban such advertising. However, for all broadcasters it is quite important advertising and it is not always bad. Through this code we want to introduce rules so that this advertising is not harmful, and we want to eliminate many very negative phenomena that we have noticed, and the Minister of Health, and the Chief Pharmaceutical and Sanitary Inspector. Let me remind you: this is self-regulation, i.e. voluntary, mutual commitment to the environment of producers of dietary supplements and broadcasters. Such a code is prepared and I hope that this year it can be signed, which will undoubtedly be a breakthrough in this market. As far as the other codes are concerned, we are working on a code of protection for minors in e-sports broadcasts. Currently there is a very large and growing group of young viewers who watch not football matches in stadiums, only competitions in computer games. This is a global competition played at one time around the world, they have their faithful audience. We want a code to regulate these broadcasts to protect the viewers of minors. It is known that such games can be very brutal and unacceptable when it comes to wide transmissions. We have also proposed a code of good practice governing the relationship between broadcasters and cable operators or satellite operators. I don't know if that code's gonna happen. To be honest, the situation here is quite tense, especially in recent months. Therefore, under the aegis of the Senate in the entrepreneurship team, we held meetings of operators with broadcasters and with the Ministry of Culture, with the Competition Office, with UKE and proposed tough statutory regulations. On the one hand, the entrepreneurship team worked on amending the law in this regard, on the other hand, we sent our proposals to the Ministry of Culture. It is about introducing a number of quite important rules on the market, very suitable for broadcasters and operators. If there's any interest, because I see you're... It's a little boring. That's what they say. Mr. Senator! I'm so sorry. I wanted to... I call you to order! Mr. President, I'm sorry. But right, that's right. Ladies and gentlemen, I purposely wanted to show you what the National Radio and Television Council is doing. These are: concentration on the media market, tensions between the various sides of the market, i.e. advertisers, broadcasters, operators, capital concentration, which follows, and changes in laws, in law. These are the cases we're dealing with. I wanted to show this widely, because in a moment I will have questions only and only about matters that we do not deal with, i.e. the content of information programs in the Polish Television. I took the opportunity to tell you what we're really working on because I know I'm not gonna get another chance like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u3	Please stay in the stands, Minister, because now there will be questions. I'll get some more materials. The Senators may ask the President for a matter of no more than one minute in connection with this report. He signed up for the question, Senator Żaryn. We'll wait until Mr. Chairman gets back. Senator Żaryn has any objections to the National Council? Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Maybe I'll take care of the marginalities, but it's important at least from the perspective of those committees I'm a member of. Namely, the first question: is there any clear interpretation from the National Council about the current reality of the earlier tragic agreement between TVP Polonia and Spanski? This deal, from the '90s, it's gonna end someday. Is the National Council preparing for this? What's his assessment, the analysis of this reality? Because by this infamous memory the contract, for which no one has responded in court, was not convicted, there was no sentence, we have for many, many years, at least in the past, lost the possibility of unambiguous creation by the Polish medium, i.e. TVP Polonia, the image of Poland in the United States or America. For this reason, access by the Polish people to this vision coming from the country is prevented. It's image damage... Mr. Senator, question. The question of the position of the National Council. If you have any more questions, please, up to three at a time. Just a second question so far. Namely, you said about the tools that the National Council has on viewing checks. And you were right to introduce the second wording at once, i.e. the behaviour of the viewer. These are 2 completely distinct categories. Explain to us to what extent these tools, which, I understand, you are going to bring to us, can actually affect each other, the audience's behaviour, and whether this does not threaten to reverse the democratic model of the state, i.e. that society doesn't run the media through you, only the media through you run the society.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u5	Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u6	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Senator, As far as the distribution of Polonia's signal in North America is concerned, it's actually... Otherwise, it's not just the United States, it's more countries, it's actually on the American continent. This is a question of a very unfavourable and controversial agreement, so-called. an agreement with Spaniard, which expires in autumn of this year. Which doesn't mean there's no problem with that, because at the moment, there's a lawsuit going on in the U.S. courts. Public television could speak more widely on this subject. We have invited public television representatives to a meeting at the National Council, but it has not yet taken place and we do not have more detailed information. And I don't know how much I could betray them, how much the company would tell me... Since proceedings are pending before American courts, certain things may be subject to confidentiality. I know one thing: it's not definitely over. Mr.Spanski is still trying to fight and extend this agreement on conditions clearly judged by us as unfavourable to the public broadcaster and in general to the interests of Poland as regards this matter. I would like to remind you that such a process of undermining the principles of this agreement was certainly carried out in 2006 and 2008, it seems by public television. At the time, we had an update. In front of the US courts, proceedings were pending, and American law firms were hired to do so by a public broadcaster. Then, in a rather mysterious period for us, I'm talking about my previous participation in the National Council. In which the public television was ruled by President Piotr Farfał, we had no information about what was really going on with this proceeding. And before that, we were hoping that the case would end with some winning process, that was the prognosis. Mr Giertych worked closely with President Piotr Farfał at the time and was also active as a lawyer. Only after the change of board it turned out that completely silently, without any public information, was a settlement signed with Mr.Spanski, a settlement which closed the possibility of any negotiations for the following years. It is only now that that agreement expires, and there is a chance that this problem will finally be solved. I think that this settlement should be the subject of special attention and, in fact, also raise the interest of certain state services, because both the method of concluding it, the persons who participated in it, and the damage that this agreement has brought... Well, I'm surprised that so far there haven't been any conclusions and consequences on the people who led to it. The same is true of the first contract with Spaniard, which gave such adverse conditions to public television. As far as ratings are concerned, ladies and gentlemen, these are, like, two aspects of these surveys. One is a scientific cognitive aspect; this is what we can say about the behavior of the audience at all. I'm talking about today's technologies that actually monitor the behavior of viewers and transmit data back to the operator itself. First of all, it needs to be collected and secured so that no one has access to personalized information, but only general data. I don't think knowing about it can affect the viewers themselves. On the contrary, I think there's a threat on the other hand. The fact that viewers will have a direct and massive impact on very detailed programming decisions. In short, the point is that the broadcasters in pursuit of the audience will do something directly under the public, as they say, exactly under the public, because they will be clearly visible, from one second to the next... Already today you can introduce on the basis of our research tools, which in the director of the publisher show the behavior of the viewers. And if I can see that the viewer is going to another program, I'm just changing the whole script. That's what we see on the Internet because that's what you can do. Unfortunately, it threatens to be pauperized. Unfortunately, this is an equation down because the more mass you want to have a recipient, the simpler the message you have to offer. The second aspect of research is the one that is of market importance. And here you need a panel, you need to know who's watching specifically, which age groups and what degree of wealth. There are many questions that the National Council is not looking for an answer, but the broadcasters or advertisers are looking for it, and that is why we want to implement and implement this stage together with market players. But these are just classic panel studies, the change is about mono-sources. Today, it is not enough to observe what you watch on TV or what you listen to on the radio. I remind you that the radio is still being studied by the diary method, which is already widely regarded as archaic. The method used for television, based on telemetry measurement, which Nielsen now has, is already considered to be archaic, let alone radio. We have one smartphone-based device that carries a panel player with us right now. This smartphone compares signals, after an audio signal reaching us stimuli and is able to identify these stimuli for the sender. It takes this device and the system a few seconds, that's all it takes to identify exactly what program, what program it's from, what program it's currently being listened to by me, whether I'm listening to it on the move or not, whether I'm listening to it at home or outside the house. It also collects a number of other types of data, but these are already data that will also be used by commercial broadcasters for normal distribution and sale of advertising, so they will also be funded to participate in this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u7	You're asking Senator Fedorovich a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u8	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to apologize for my delicate attitude towards the Minister and, of course, your marshal. Mr President, the National Council is at the forefront of media clarity It is a constitutional body for their transparency, transparency, for the media to be public. We had several meetings, actually every year as president I accepted the report, although I mostly rejected it, of course it was voted out by a majority. But I don't think we're going to go back to that because we have completely different opinions about this. I'm just gonna ask you two specific questions. I have the minutes of the sitting before me, and I asked you, among others, at the time. about reacting to the issue of a report on the Polish language, which was, as always, submitted before our committee. Unfortunately, he didn't go on the agenda because the marshal didn't think it was appropriate. There were analyses of these unfortunate stripes, which in an extremely negative way show the opposition side. You replied that 306 of the 9,000 stripes had been analyzed and that it could be selectively chosen. No, that's right, that's what your words are. But we don't really do it, I just read it, knowing that such a question could be, it was obvious, and I spoke to Kurski's president about it. So now I'd like to know if President Kurski answered your question. In connection with this next question, I would like to ask you for an answer as soon as possible. I also filed a complaint as chairman of the Senate Committee on Culture and Media for attacking the President of the European Council on television. And you texted me back. Yes. I may read this to you about this complaint, but it seems that Mr President, who I am, has been informed that he will receive an answer within two months. This deadline will be respected. Those are your words. It's been six months. And then, the procedure is that we apply to the sender, apply for the material, look at the material ourselves. And that's the end of that part of the protocol. So, Mr. Chairman, what's it like? Will I finally get a response to a complaint about a television statement that has appalled at least half of Poles, or will I not get it? After all, you promised me that, it's on the record. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u9	Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u10	Good. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, we send this up-to-date when we complete the process of handling the complaint, then we send you a reply. I'd have to find out exactly what happened to that complaint. I know that about... Right now, I don't know what situation it was about. I've already sent answers about the stripes, but I don't know, right now it's hard for me to tell if it was a response addressed to the Senate Marshal or another organ... To the marshal... The Senate Marshal? I'm the one who can say... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Okay, good. The answer on the stripes was addressed to the Senate Marshal I've got confirmation. I mean, you should get it. In the matter of Prime Minister Tusk... I don't know what situation it was about. I know we've had a relatively recent case... It was about a piece of information that included photographs of Stalin and Hitler. We replied to the president of public television that... of course we were conducting correspondence, and we ended this case, too. I can tell you that our reaction was the same as in the case of Minister Brudziński against the background of swastika, i.e. some manipulation of the image in TVN. So that we try to respond symmetrically to such situations both at the public service broadcaster and at the commercial service provider. We pointed out that the message is created not only in the direct verbal layer, but also through the image, and it may be misleading the recipient Mr. Marshal, I have to ask.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u11	Mr. Senator, a brief, specific question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u12	Briefly. Mr President, you have not responded at all to the complaint made by the President of the Senate Committee on Culture and Media, against the complaint that I have made in writing to you! You gave it to me. And it's in the protocol. That you'll answer me in two months. Does the president have to wait that long? What's an ordinary citizen gonna do? Mr. Senator... Oh, sorry, I'll finish... Don't be surprised... I'm emotional, but I'm gonna get over it. I want an answer... I understand, but I told you you received that answer. I didn't get an answer. It's in the protocol. It's a complaint. The President of the European Council, Prime Minister Tusk, was shown in circumstances I do not even want to talk about on public television. Is this supposed to take so long? I'm gonna wait all this time for an answer so I can post it in the materials until I finish my term and maybe the next time I get it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u13	The question is clear. Thank you. Mr President, do you want to complete your answer?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u14	You have already received a reply to the belt complaint, a long time ago, to the complaint in the case of Prime Minister Tusk, whether you have received a reply from the Senate Marshal this week. Maybe she hasn't reached you yet, but she's already been... But did he get it or... Mr. Senator... ...sent from the National Council.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u15	You're asking Senator Rulewski a question. Same as... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please keep your conversations quiet. You have a voice, Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u16	Mr President, the main tasks of the legal and constitutional institutions that you are directing are, of course, to preserve freedom of speech, order, but also... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm asking the senators to quiet the conversations, because your colleague can't get through with the speech. Please, Mr. Senator. ...to raise funds for two purposes: firstly, so that public television can function efficiently, secondly, so that it is civic. Don't you think after many years of running or being in the media? Mr. Czabanski's presence is also present. Your mission has run out and it's time to give room to others, more dynamic, who would end these problems, which are the problems of all viewers? Second question. Don't you consider that in the context of the same effect? In view of the progressive commercialisation of public television, where public affairs are an addition to advertising, is there any need to make a difference? Are you familiar with, among other things. My designs to have an ad-free channel? And a third. How many complaints have been received Please don't just operate with statistics. And how long have they been answered? In this context, I would like to point out, Mr President, that since May I have not received an answer to my request, a request for correction. I'm not just asking about complaints. Many public institutions held different positions. Are you analyzing this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u17	Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u18	Ladies and gentlemen! When it comes to the question of whether a certain formula has been exhausted and whether it is appropriate to turn the office's control over to someone more dynamic, that is why my introduction was all about, in your opinion long enough to realise how many things the National Council has done, done and will do. I think it's one of the more dynamic periods. 2018 and 2019 are some of the most dynamic years for the regulatory side of the audiovisual market. Besides, not only is it because of me, but also thanks to the whole team and various external factors, such things happen. So on the contrary, we're just getting ahead of ourselves. As far as TVP commercialisation is concerned, this is indeed a problem, but let's look at the figures that are included in the report. Well, the total cost of the mission in all public television channels is nearly PLN 2 billion, and PLN 360 million influences the subscription. These numbers just speak for themselves. I also believe that this is not a good situation and that there should be an increase in funding from subscription revenues at the expense of commercial revenues, while reducing... I'm not talking about going down to zero, I'm talking about restricting public service advertising. I will remind you that today only public broadcasters are prohibited from interrupting the broadcasts, or, in fact, those long feature films, advertising. The public broadcaster does not do this, which is already slowly becoming its market asset, because we see more and more people who decide to watch movies that are not interrupted. People either buy subscriptions to paid services, such as Netflix, or choose to broadcast from a public service provider. I agree, Senator, that's the way it should be. Maybe not to zero, but advertising should be limited while sealing or modernising the subscription system. How many complaints were there? The detailed list of complaints and decisions is in the report, so if the senator is interested in these details, then I can either send it back to the report or make a more specific statement in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u19	The question is asked by Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u20	Thank you very much. I have three questions. First of all, what kind of... [[Cell phone signal]] Excuse me, could you turn off the cell phones? Thank you. Mr. Minister, Mr. Senator, he's here... I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal, but it was difficult for me to focus... Proceed. ...under the circumstances. The first question is... Please say briefly and, if possible, at the points that the National Radio and Television Council has taken to... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Don't make any loud conversations here. Excuse me, ma'am, you have a very loud voice, so please quietly... ...to ensure pluralism and objectivity of public television information programmes. Second question. You have an obligation under the Act to determine the direction of the development of radio and television with the President of the Council of Ministers. Tell me how many meetings you had with the President of the Council of Ministers, what they dealt with, what are plans for media recolonization, etc. What are your intentions? Well, since you're setting these lines with the Prime Minister, I'm asking if this was the subject of a conversation. And the third question. Do you belong to the Law and Justice Club in the Mazowieckie Seym? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u21	Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u22	I will answer the last question: yes, I am, but I am not a member of the Law and Justice. I'm talking about the Seymour. Am I meeting with the President of the Council of Ministers? I don't really know how to answer that. If you've asked me if I've talked to the President of the Council of Ministers about recolonising the media, then I say no, I've never talked about it. Does the National Council participate in media policy design? Yes. That's what I was talking about in my speech -- I think it's exhausting. I can say it again, but I don't think you're ready to hear it again. So, yes: this is the implementation of the directive; these are the proposed amendments; this is the regulatory strategy that I was talking about and which is available on the website, that is the whole range of self-regulatory issues, i.e. those codes that I was talking about - among others. the problem of dietary supplements in advertising is also the result of this type of approach, i.e. participation in these works. As far as cooperation is concerned, it is mainly cooperation with the directional department, i.e. the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, and that is why we send our proposals there. We have sent a proposal for a law that cleans up a lot of things in a law that was actually written in 1992, that is, in a completely different media and technological reality. We have a lot of this kind of activity. In addition, among our statutory proposals are proposals not distracting, but protecting against excessive concentration. That's in our strategy too. We introduced this, too. There are some arrangements for measuring concentration - concentration on the media market, cross-concentration on the advertising market, etc., etc. Moreover, this is in line with this recommendation of the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers. And that's what we do. I think I answered in detail. Because the question is whether I met with the President of the Council of Ministers, I believe, is not much of a connection. Did I talk about it? No, I've never talked about recolonization. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u23	You ask the marshal... I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u24	I am very sorry, but, first of all, you have not answered the question of what specific actions the National Radio and Television Council has taken to ensure the objectivity of public media. That's what I'd like to ask... Then fill it in. ...because I think we're all interested. And secondly, why did I ask you about meeting the President of the Council of Ministers? Because your website has the tasks of the National Radio and Television Council. Point 1: design in agreement with the President of the Council of Ministers of State policies in the field of radio and television. Well, that's your job. This is the most important task.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u25	It's clear, Senator. Thank you. Mr. Chairman will answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u26	Yeah, but here, Senator, I don't think we understand each other. The record says in agreement with the government. Yes? Well, that doesn't mean that the bill obliges me to meet with the President of the Council of Ministers, and it doesn't say that I'm going to be questioned by the senators. Well, it is clear that the National Council is designing directions in agreement with the Government - in some cases in agreement with the President of the Council of Ministers, in others, much more frequent, in agreement with the Minister of Culture, and in others in agreement with the Minister of Health or with the Minister of Digitization. Well, I guess that's obvious. And when it comes to information and pluralism, I said it at the beginning. Each sender shapes his own program and the National Council absolutely does not influence it. We only deal with complaints and possible breaches of the Article to a specific extent. The 18th Radio and Television Act, let me remind you, in relation to all broadcasters. And how does the National Council care if it checks? As far as the attention of the National Council to pluralism in the media market is concerned, I immediately said - at the outset I also said - that we have the most diverse media market. As for the audience of information programs such as TVP Info, TVN 24, Polsat News, because that's what you were asking about, we were driving... I was asking about the public media. Senator, can I answer that? Mr. President... Can I answer that? Really, Mr. Chairman? I say the National Council... I asked about the public media. ...cares about pluralism in the media market. No. You asked about the information market. I was asking about the public media. Wait until the answer is complete. Good. Shares in the audience. We have three news antennas right now. Their shares in 2019 are: TVP Info - on average 3,59% , increased compared to 2018; TVN 24 - 4.48% , also increased compared to 2018; Polsat News - 1% , slightly decreased in 2019. This shows that in the information market, as regards information programmes, there is a very large pluralism and a very large diversity. The same was true of our research on the audience of the main information programmes. And I can quote them, too. Regarding pluralism, ladies and gentlemen, on the television market we have 3 main broadcasters, TVN groups, i.e. Discovery, Polsat and public broadcaster. It's a TVP. These 3 TVs have roughly, in general, 1/3 of the market. If we assume that they do not formulate a uniform political message in the area of information And I'm sure it isn't. Well, we can say that the television market in Poland is one of the more pluralized markets in Europe. Thank you very much... And yes, the National Council controls it. And at the same time, we're afraid of concentration processes. That's why we're paying attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u27	You are asking the question of Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u28	Mr President, I understand that you believe there is pluralism in electronic media. I won't argue with you now. But the public television you're talking about is a public-funded medium. And I have a question for you. In the news for about two weeks, the Prime Minister of Law and Justice, ministers, has been writing "Candidate to the Sejm for Law and Justice." Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Do you think this is an election advertisement, or do you think this isn't an advertisement?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u29	Are you done? Yeah, I'm done. There you go, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u30	Mr. Senator, the right point and the right doubt. I didn't see it. This is a task not for the National Council, but for the State Election Commission. Because the electoral code sets out very specific rules for the issue of electoral materials and regulates these issues exactly. If something of this nature is such, i.e. it is such information, it should be registered as a material of the electoral committee, the name of this committee and the source of funding should be given. But the National Council doesn't check and analyze these things, because it concerns all the electoral materials. And there's an appropriate regulation for that. If that is what you said, then perhaps another electoral committee, which has such doubts, has already reported it to the Commissioner, has referred it to the electoral committee and this matter is being considered. So if that's the case, I think the right authorities are handling it. I'm sure it's not unnoticed. But, as I understand it, the National Council didn't notice, and neither did you? We don't do that. I understand. You don't watch the news. And I'm watching, unlike you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u31	Thank you. Are there any more questions for the president? Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u32	Thank you very much. Mr President, I would like to ask how much longer regional TV centres will ignore their obligations to record the most important cultural events on their territory free of charge, demanding fees for this, even though such events as for example. Do we have a chance to watch the Roma culture festival every year? I am talking about this in the context of a party that has in Silesia really many years of tradition, it is not an annual ephemeral, it will only have its 30th edition in autumn. I'm talking about our competition, which is Silesian. Every time I turn to TVP Katowice and I get the answer that if I pay, they'll make a report out of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u33	I'm asking you to answer the question of Senator Panczyk-Podniej.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u34	Senator, well, that's a question for the TV board. All I can tell you is that this kind of problem is at our heart, which is why we're giving half of the subscription money to be used in television centers. On our part, this is what we can do, in this way we can act, only with a positive stimulus. But given half of this 350 million PLN... it's still a drop in the sea of expenses that a public broadcaster spends on a mission. As a spectator, I have watched Katowice's TV show many times, and I have the impression that the culture there is related, but I do not go into any polemics here because I do not know these situations. Even if I did, I'd have to tell you the same thing. Well, the sender has to plan his budget so that, of course, he doesn't demand additional conditions. But it also depends on the means you give to carry out these missionary tasks. The position of regional centres, television and regional radio companies requires a separate discussion and preparation of the concept of regional public media. Mr Czabański has spoken on this subject many times.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u35	I don't see any further requests for questions... Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u36	I watch a personal carousel in Radio Gdansk. In just over 3 years, 3 directors of this radio have been changed. Do you know anything about it or not? It's not for that, is it? It's for President Czabanski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u37	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u38	You want me to answer that? No, I think... I mean, were there any comments regarding... No, I just know they're... ...the operation of this radio I'm surprised by the changes I've made so often. That would justify these personal changes. On the subject of personal changes, Mr Czabański will probably be able to express himself. All I know is that they are and that they were because I have this information, but it's the same information as the information you have. However, as for the financial situation, Radio Gdansk is a specific radio, because it operates in a large agglomeration, has a large revenue from advertising, but also large expenditures. It also opens sub-local or sub-regional bands, so... the situation is different from most radio centers. Okay, I'm gonna ask Minister Czaban a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u39	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to inform you that Mr Witold Kołodziejski has committed himself to answering in writing the questions asked by Senator Rulewski. One question about the number of complaints. Then you'll agree. Good. I would like to welcome the President of the National Media Council, Mr Krzysztof Czabański, to the Senate meeting. I ask the President to speak in order to present the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u40	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present information about the activities of the National Media Council in 2018. This information was provided to you, as was the High House, to the President, the President of the Council of Ministers and the President of the National Radio and Television Council, in accordance with a good annual custom. I just want to remind you 'Cause it could affect your questions. What are the statutory obligations of the National Media Council, which the legislator has imposed on us in the 2016 Act. It's in the article. 2 point 1 is defined as follows: The Council shall be the competent authority for the appointment and cancellation of personal storage units of public units of radio and television broadcasting and of the Polish Press Agency, hereinafter referred to as "the companies', etc. This is the area where we are competent and where the legislator has imposed obligations on us to perform. Therefore, the information we have submitted to you contains a report on this type of action taken in 2018. It is mainly about shaping personal compositions of management boards and supervisory boards of public radio and television companies and the Polish Press Agency, expressing consent to the appointment of directors of the field branches of TVP SA and supplementing the compositions of the program boards. In addition, at meetings of the National Media Council, we dealt with certain topics that were either due to the interest of the members of this body, or to things that affected us. I would also like to remind you that this body is pluralistic in nature, consisting of three members elected by the Sejm majority and two members nominated to the council by the President from among the candidates selected by the two largest opposition clubs in the Sejm. If there are any questions for me, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u41	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute's query to the President regarding the information in question. You are the first question to be asked by Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u42	Mr President, during the last period when you were head of the National Media Council, there have been 3 changes in the Polish Radio in Gdańsk as the President of the Radio, and there have been 2 more changes since Andrzej Liberadzki. In my opinion, it's a change for the worse every time. Please tell me what is the justification for such frequent rotation as Head of Radio Gdańsk.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u43	I'll limit myself to the information. So far, the presidents, starting with the editor Andrzej Liberadzki, through Dariusz Wasielewski, have resigned from their duties, and we have therefore chosen further presidents from among the candidates submitted by the members of the National Media Council. Well, no one can force anyone to be president.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u44	The question is asked by Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u45	I would like to ask a similar question about Radio Wrocław. This is a radio that enjoys a good reputation in Wrocław. Despite these political changes that have been negative in recent years, it seems to me that, for these conditions, it has been carried out with a certain degree of integrity. And now all of a sudden it turns out, ladies and gentlemen, that already during the election campaign, the current director is leaving and a completely different director is appointed to this place. I'd like to ask... Because it never happened, I mean. no one dared, Mr President, to change the president of the radio actually in the course of the election campaign. It's unimaginable. Please answer why this happened, how you reacted to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u46	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u47	This is a similar situation as in Radio Gdansk. The president resigned. But it wasn't a resignation from the president's willingness to leave, that's what we all know. The president has chosen to retire. But she was made to do it, and I don't think you're gonna be telling me... Senator, please move your comments to the discussion, now there are questions. That's your opinion, I'm presenting the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u48	There's a question. There's an answer. Are there any further questions for the president? Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u49	I am surprised by your restraint, because I am asking because I know more or less why the presidents of Radio Gdansk resigned, at least the first one, Andrzej Liberadzki. Me, Private Senator, well, Vice-Marshal of the Senate of the opposition. He resigned because he was forced to do so by a political party ruling at the moment by the head of the local PiS. Is that the question, will the question still be? No, but since the president claims or suggests that he doesn't know anything else, I'm the one who's giving him the information in a public way.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u50	But maybe that's in the discussion, Mr. Marshal, because it's not a question. Thank you very much. Are there any further questions for the president? Senator Bobko. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u51	Mr President, as you have quoted here, it is the duty of the Council to appoint and possibly remove board members, members of the relevant bodies, and I understand that this also implies the obligation to monitor the activities of these bodies. In this context, I would like to ask your opinion and the opinion of the National Media Council on how public television is fulfilling its statutory duty under the mission as the audience is objectively informed about the situation in the country.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u52	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u53	There is no official position of the National Media Council on this matter, this matter was not discussed, nor was any resolution taken by the National Media Council on this matter. All I can say is how I feel about my opinion, if the senator is interested in that opinion. I must say that public television, in my opinion, is doing very well in the media market.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u54	You're asking Senator Fedorovich a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, well, you said the bill... and you appealed to the bill. But you prepared the bill here yourself. We had a debate on this. And you became the head of that National Media Council you were preparing for. We talked about this at the committee meeting. I would now like you to refer here to what is in the minutes of our sitting. I will quote a member of your council, Mr Julius Braun. Well, he said that there is a rule that says that he can come to the board meeting, he can come to the company meeting, but it should not be noted in the minutes or even on the attendance list. I quote that exactly from the protocol. And now the next quote, the next sentence: well, there really is one of you in the sitting, but it doesn't have to be recorded in the minutes. This is some kind of psychic we talked about at the meeting, you didn't think so. You have the right to do so. And now I'm serving. It's still public information. Mr Juliusz Braun writes that this is not a key problem of Polish media. But in my opinion, this is a problem that can be seen in terms of crimes against documents, because in such a situation, in the document, that is, in the minutes of the ordinary general meeting, it is not true: in a way contrary to the actual course of the meeting, there was no presence of a member of the National Media Council, which is directly due to the provisions of the Act. And I quote that. The Minister referred to it. And how would you relate to the same thing now?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u56	The same as at the committee meeting, i.e. I would say that this is the subject of an interpretation dispute between the National Media Council and the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, which supervises the ownership of us public media companies. And this is the subject of the dispute, the exchange of positions and writings between us. I do not change the opinion that the presence of members of the National Media Council at general meetings I would like to remind you that the general meeting is convened by the Minister as the owner of the State, the representative of the State Treasury should be recorded, as well as their voice recorded at such a meeting. As for this position I am not changing, this is the position we are presenting to the Minister and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u57	Mr. Marshal, I need to ask you a question. That's right, of course. But, Minister, you were also Deputy Minister of Culture. You're the head of the National Media Council. You don't have the authority of the minister. Right? No, you don't. But you were the Minister of Culture... And now I, as an ordinary citizen, read in the minutes: this is a crime against documents. That's when...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u58	That's an opinion... I see. And I'm saying that we have an interpretation difference in terms of whether from the statutory record... Mr. Senator, I'm sorry to have entered your question, but I understand it's a matter of substance. The difference is that, in our opinion, a record empowering members of the National Media Council to attend general meetings Although in the law it is only so formulated The result is that they should be treated as any participant in the general meeting and the Minister presents a different opinion on this matter. We've been trying to find an agreement for months, and we're going to keep trying. Our interpretation is what I'm saying, and we're not changing our mind about it. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u59	Thank you very much. You are asking the question of Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u60	Mr President, is it true that meetings of the National Media Council do not make short-term documentation or records in the form of recordings?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u61	No, it's not true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u62	Are there any more questions for the president? Since there isn't, thank you very much, Mr President. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, to submit a report to the committee on the report of the National Radio and Television Council on its activities in 2018.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u63	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr President! Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! On 11 June, the Senate Marshal sent to the Committee on Culture and Media a report from the National Radio and Television Council in 2018 together with information on the basic problems of radio and television in 2018. After hearing the information of the members of the National Radio and Television Council and having held the discussion at its meeting on 9 July 2019, the committee shall present a draft resolution requesting the adoption of the report of the National Radio and Television Council on its activities in 2018. As I mentioned, the Committee on Culture and Media discussed the report of the Radio and Television Council on 9 July. According to the Act on Radiophony and Television, the National Council presents annually to the Sejm and the Senate of the Republic of Poland, the President and the President of the Council of Ministers a report on its activities for the preceding year and information on the fundamental problems of radio and television. Twelve bills. I would like to remind you that this year, as a result of the amendment of the laws, the deadline for submitting the report, which ended on 31 March, has been postponed and the reporting documents of the National Radio and Television Council will be presented by 31 May as of 31 December of the preceding year. This amendment enables the National Council, in particular, to present the most up-to-date information on the economic and financial situation of public media as it is correlated with the balance sheet obligations of the Commercial Companies Code. This amendment also strengthens the supervisory capacity of the public service broadcasting sector as it allows financial analysis to be carried out on the basis of the most up-to-date and wider data than has been the case so far. The 2018 report shall contain information on the implementation of the various statutory tasks of the National Radio and Television Council, including tasks related to the conduct of concession proceedings and control over the activities of broadcasters. In addition, the National Council informed about issues relating to subscription fees, fixing their amount, the distribution between public broadcasters of subscription funds collected by the Polish Post. This thread has been developed in his speech by the presentation of the report, Mr Kołodziejski. There is also information related to the organisation of international cooperation, the issue of statutory regulations, the opinion of draft legal acts and international agreements and the handling of complaints and requests. In fact, each of these issues is discussed in detail in a separate chapter. This year, an additional chapter was devoted to issues related to the organisation by the National Council of research into the content and reception of media services within the framework of the project "New Polish telemetry." [[Talking in the O.R.]] Together with the report, the National Radio and Television Council carried out an annual analysis of selected market phenomena and processes. This analysis was included in the second part of the reporting documentation, i.e. information on basic radio and television problems in 2018. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me, Mr. Senator, please be quiet. There's a terrible reverb in the gym. That's what's bothering you with the rapporteur's senator. He's reading the protocol. He can read what he thinks is appropriate. Excuse me, senators, I'm not reading the minutes, I'm just summing up the discussion that took place at the committee meeting on 9 July, so please don't insinuate something I'm not doing. During the meeting in the presence of the President of the National Radio and Television Council of Witold Kołodziejski, members of the National Radio and Television Council and representatives of the Office, the Committee on Culture and Media held a detailed discussion on the National Council's reporting documents, in particular on its report on the work carried out last year. President Witold Kołodziejski informed, among others, that the tasks of the National Council carried out in 2018 concerned a procedure for agreeing with broadcasters of the public financial and programme plans projects undertaken to carry out missionary tasks, control the use of subscription appropriations for public broadcasters to finance missionary programming activities, the division between public companies of radio and television of PLN 980 million, which compensates for the proceeds of subscriptions lost in the years 2010 and 2017 as a result of the statutory redundancies of certain social groups, the monitoring of linear programmes and on-demand services, as well as the investigation of complaints and requests. The President of the National Council recalled that the subscription proceeds amounted to PLN 741.5 million and that 673 million PLN should be added, i.e. part of the compensation paid to the public media in 2018. Thus, the total amount of public funds earmarked for public media in 2018 amounted to about PLN 1 billion 400 million. During the discussion at the committee meeting, I requested the adoption of the report of the National Radiophony Council in 2018. The opposing motion was made by Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz. The Commission voted in favour of the proposal submitted by me and adopted a positive recommendation to the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the adoption of a report on the activities of the National Radio and Television Council in 2018, together with information on the basic problems of radio and television. The Commission has also decided to identify me as rapporteur. As rapporteur, I would like to draw the attention of the High House to three important issues that arise both from the National Council reporting documents and during the meeting of the panel of discussions. First of all, modern technologies in the audiovisual market, which are increasingly entering our daily lives every day... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal, could I... ...dict huge transformations in the audiovisual market. In the near future we will witness, among others. intensive development of technologies based on intelligent algorithms and further expansion of artificial intelligence, which has already gained great importance in the media industry. The legislator will urgently need to make appropriate legal changes to all these new developments in the media world, in which digital technologies, including 5G technology, introduce us. Let me remind you that we have recently passed a bill on this subject in the Senate. According to the 5G industry, the media market will be revolutionised as the signal will be available everywhere and transmission opportunities will be unlimited. This way of reaching with the software offer and how it is received force other changes, including e.g. develop new business and owner models for market entrepreneurs. Secondly, we are facing major legal changes which Member States are required to implement by 19 September 2020. So it's less than a year. These changes involve the adoption of a revised Audiovisual Media Services Directive. One of the main changes concerns new responsibilities for video-sharing platforms. These platforms will have to put in place mechanisms to ensure that minors are protected from inappropriate content for them and that all recipients are protected from content that contains calls for violence, hatred, terrorist offences, child pornography, racism and xenophobia. Thirdly, the old question, namely the financing of public media. The funding system must be stable, stable, predictable and appropriate, i.e. guaranteeing responsible and in accordance with the legally designated tasks of the public media to carry out mission tasks. Every year, this topic appears in the parliamentary debate. Facts are unchangeable. The number of households regularly paying subscriptions is decreasing. Now there are only about 1 million such farms. The decrease in the number of people paying subscriptions, the increase in the number of people recording receivers and the increase in the number of people exempt from payment are indicators which confirm that there has been a complete failure of the subscription funding of public media. The subscription is at a level that is disproportionate to the real needs of public media. The financial situation is already repaired for the second time by compensation for persons exempt from payment of the licence. What's next? We do not know, and the proper functioning of public media requires predictability and stability. The High Izbo, following this discussion which has been held, as I have already mentioned twice, on 9 July, recommends that the High House adopt the report together with information on the main audiovisual problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u64	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Rulewski. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u65	Mr President, a well-known figure in the field of culture and media, concludes with conclusions in which he calls out dramatically: eat! Because there is no money for television, there is no stability, there is no possibility to implement demands for further digitalisation. Don't you think that's not enough? And, above all, why the conclusion that this report should be adopted if there is such a hunger?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u66	Mr. Senator, you're mixing the cause with the effects. It is a statutory obligation for the National Radio and Television Council to report. This report has been submitted and can still be downloaded in storage. In this room, in the aquarium, there is this report, so you can read it. It is a very comprehensive document with tables, with very interesting charts. Well, not the time and place to discuss it very thoroughly, because it would take us a lot more time. If the National Council of Radiophony and Television states in its position, including a description of the situation that the public media system requires stable, responsible and predictable funding, it is a fact that will come to the Polish state. We must either propose an amendment to the law in this regard or change the system at all. I don't want to talk about it here, because we didn't discuss it specifically at the committee meeting, so I would go beyond my role as rapporteur, but in this respect various ideas appeared. Let me remind you that there was an idea to link the subscription fee to the electric meter. This is an old idea that hasn't shown up for 20 or over 20 years. Even as I was in the Seym, such a variant was considered. There were other ideas. In my opinion, this is no longer the role of Parliament, but, as we know, the National Radio and Television Council has no legislative initiative in this area, and it is a pity, because it would be the most competent body to propose solutions in this area and to be able to introduce a legislative initiative. So it's probably going to be a government presentation. What's it gonna be like? Will this be financed directly from the budget or in any other form? We also need to take into account European circumstances in this area, something called illegal state aid. There are a number of issues here. I don't want to elaborate on this right now, but that's an objective fact. And that's what's in the report. I have put forward three arguments here that illustrate the course of this discussion. And your question is whether... Well, I agree with you. The situation is that the public media have a big problem with funding their mission to get money for their current activities. These laws, which granted compensation for the lost benefits of the subscription, were in a way I agree with that. It's a lifesaver. They were adopted to enable the functioning of public media, which were the result of necessity. And when did the subscription system really start collapsing? Well, I guess I don't have to go back to that, Senator. There was a famous statement by a famous European politician. He spoke about the subscription at one time, and I think he's gonna brag about it... And I'm saying this as a member of the cultural committee. during the previous term, when it was examined by President Dworak, who, in response to my question, showed on specific amounts for individual years, how dramatic depression followed this statement in terms of subscription. But I don't think there's much to go on right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u68	Same time... I would like to see such continuity, especially since the rapporteur shows a high efficiency here. I would like to say that, in addition to the numerous initiatives that have sort of crossed out the fact that there is no need to pay for television, there was also an initiative by a very modest senator who proposed television for a copper, but subject to universality. For a copper, that's for 5 zlotys, because it's copper money. It is worth remembering that, Senator rapporteur. But my question concerns a different thesis. Don't you think that your report, which is positive for the National Radio and Television Council, misses the voice of the public? You emphasize that 90% of people don't want to pay for this TV. And if people go, for example. to the movies, that's what they pay Only 2% He wants to go to the movies. I think you're missing public opinion, and you're still in the middle of an election campaign.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u69	Mr. Senator, that's the question. A little from the edge of philosophy, because it has the character of sophism. This is theoretically correct reasoning, but not corresponding to reality. Well, I don't know why 90% holdings do not pay There are probably very different motivations. I don't want to analyze it here, but the fact is that it's not that the Polish Television programs are only watching 10% Poles. A lot more people are watching them. So they don't pay, but they watch. That's why you can't say that there's a common belief that it's some kind of... It's undoubtedly... And I am even more sorry to say this, because for 20 years I was a full-time journalist of Polish Television. And I believe that this television had in its business I am talking about its activities from the beginning, since its inception, from the 1950s, different periods, but I don't think anyone will deny that it is one of the permanent elements of our public space. Various programs even from the times of the Polish People's Republic, such as various cabarets, the Older Masters' Cabaret or other productions, went to the national canon of culture. And no one is questioning that, no one is questioning it, although they were produced in quasi-totalitarian or even totalitarian times. Therefore, I just think that when it comes to assessing the achievements of the Polish Television, we need to look at it honestly and see its achievements. As regards the current programme proposals, for example, access to sport And yet, in previous years, in recent years, this area has been very neglected. I guess I don't have to say that at the moment we can watch different games on Polish Television in prime-time. And I'll add that television licenses for these broadcasts buys, and unfortunately it costs, Mr. Senator. It's not like the signal from these matches Polish Television gets for free. You have to pay a lot of money for that. And this case is a whole market game, including commercial broadcasters. And this is the kitchen of the daily operation of this television, which must compete on, or whatever, the free media market. And it is not that Polish Television has at the moment, as it used to have, almost 100% An audience when it didn't have any competition. Right now, he has to fight for his place under market conditions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u70	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u71	You said that the traditional elements of this television were present even during the PRL period and that they were somehow continued. And I agree with you. But let me ask you this: does this also apply to the Television Journal and news? Do you see any follow-up here? Well, as far as ratings are concerned, I'm sure there's a follow-up here, but are there any follow-up in terms of content?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u72	Mr. Marshal, thank you for this trick question. I spoke about production which absolutely passed into the canon of Polish culture. And I don't think anybody's gonna question that. Here too, among senators, there are developers of such programs, e.g. Senator Borys-Damięcka, who made a great creative contribution to the achievements of the Polish Television, because she was, for example, the deputy chairman of the Radio and Television Committee, has also in her account, as a director and television performer, a lot of television productions that are now appreciated. Such productions must now be paid heavy money if someone wants to use these materials from the archive, which is owned by the Polish Television, and wants to distribute them in some way. And when it comes to propaganda programs, of course. in times, as it was said, the TV Szczepański So it's about the Game Times, the TV was so-called. the first front of an ideological struggle, as it was said at various official political meetings. Well, Mr. Marshal is a historian, I am a historian, we are interested in the latest history of Poland, we know her from an autopsy and we just know what it looked like. But I would not dare compare this work, let's call it, propaganda Polish Television from the period of the Polish People's Republic with the activity of television today, for one reason, Mr. Senator. It was a monopoly in the times of the Polish People's Republic, it was a 100% monopoly, and at the moment there is no monopoly, the times of the monopoly have passed. Please note, however, that when we can read the ratings, market share also other commercial stations, I'm not going to replace them here, I'm not going to advertise anyone. We see that this share, when it comes to the ratings of information programmes, is not even majority. So the citizen has a choice. He's got a pilot and he decides.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u73	Thank you very much... In the times of the Polish People's Republic, you hardly came to work at all, because you were blinking there, threatening to get kicked out... Mrs. Senator... You'd better not mention that time, or you'll be ashamed. I wonder who's more. Senator! Senator, please... That's what happened.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u74	No, no, I'm the one who has to correct. I was employed on Polish television on June 1, 1990, and the programs began to do on TV when Mr.Drawicz came in autumn. And I've never worked on TV in the time of the Polish People's Republic, so don't lie here, Senator. Don't mention it, or you'll be ashamed. I wonder who's more.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u75	Ladies and gentlemen... Senator, please... I didn't give you the floor. Let's end this exchange. No further questions, Mr. Senator. Thank you for the comprehensive report. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Aleksandr Swed, to submit a report to the committee on the activities of the National Media Council in 2018. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Mr President! I have the honour to report on behalf of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Commission's consideration of the activities of the National Media Council in 2018. Marshal of the Senate on 5 April this year. He sent information to the committee on the activities of the National Media Council in 2018, contained in Senate print No 1136. The Committee on Culture and Media considered the information on 9 July this year. The committee was attended by representatives of the National Media Council: Mr Krzysztof Czabański and a member of the Council, Mr Juliusz Braun. As we know, the National Media Council In his speech, the President was set up on the basis of the Act of 22 June 2016 on the Council of National Media and is the competent authority for the appointment and cancellation of personal warehouses of public bodies of radio and television broadcasting, the Polish Press Agency and in other matters set out in the Act. In accordance with the information submitted at the meeting of the committee, the powers of the National Media Council in this area were exercised at 14 meetings held in 2018, and their scope included the formation of personal compositions of boards and supervisory boards of public radio and television companies, consent to the appointment of directors of field branches of TVP SA, activities in the setting up of programme boards of public radio and television companies and the Polish Press Agency. As regards the control powers of the National Media Council, as every year, the Council considered the annual reports provided by the boards of public broadcasting companies: annual reports on the use of subscription fees, penalties for the use of non-registered radio and television receivers and the marketing of broadcasting rights; quarterly reports on the use of subscription fees, penalties for the use of non-registered radio and television receivers and the marketing of broadcasting rights; quarterly reports on the costs incurred in carrying out the public service mission, together with the identification of sources of funding. In addition, the 14 meetings of the National Media Council focused on a wide range of topics related, among others. with the reform of the organizational structure of the Polish Television, proposals for changes in radio and television statutes and the Polish Press Agency, the programme offer of television for 2019, the budgets of branch branches of Polish television field, with particular emphasis on investment plans for 2018. The Council discussed the state of finances of public media, Polish Television and Polish Radio, the Polish Press Agency and regional centres. The discussion, a very short discussion that followed in committee, focused mainly on the establishment of boards and supervisory boards of media companies. All issues were addressed by representatives of the National Media Council present at the meeting. Then came 2 conclusions: a request by Senator Jan Maria Jackowski to accept the information and a request to reject the information submitted by the chairman of the committee, Mr Jerzy Fedorowicz. The first motion to reject the report was rejected, which was rejected by 4 votes in favour and 6 against. Subsequently, a request for information was voted against by 6 votes in favour and 3 against. Mr Marshal, High Izbo, in accordance with the opinion of the Committee on Culture and Media, I request that the High Chamber adopt information on the activities of the National Media Council in 2018. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u77	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Senator. I'm opening a joint discussion. Please take the floor of Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u78	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, in this term of office, we are discussing the situation of public television, which concerns all of us, because public television, unlike private television, is financed by our resources. You're a resource, you're a resource, you're a resource of mine, too. or from public funds, as well as from budgetary resources, which are also public money. Thus, the situation of private television is different and the other public television is different. Public television should be required more. Objective information should be required, discussions that highlight problems, not the situation in which this television, acting with our money, is the most important element and tool of the political game. We have heard here that Szczepański's television during the Game period was a tool of ideological struggle. And right now, what does public television look like? Isn't she a tool for ideological and political combat? If anyone doesn't see it, he's either blind and deaf or he doesn't want to see or hear it. The situation is unacceptable. The right to information belongs to human rights. Each of us has such a right to information, objective and reliable. How is it used, how is it implemented? I have statistics on the elections that have passed recently, i.e. the European elections. What did the objectivity and proportion look like? The Batory Foundation presented an analysis. For 2 weeks, May 10 and 23, 2019, 69 topics of the main information programme, i.e. TVP news, were related to the PiS. 68 was positive and 1 was neutral. The European Coalition concerned 33 subjects and all had a negative response. On the 48 announcements of the news, there were daily news about the PiS, with a positive and neutral sound, was 20. The European Coalition had 9 announcements, all negative. PiS had 9 of the first announcements: 8 positive and 1 neutral. Coalition 2, both negative. And what they looked like. Hundreds, direct statements, close-ups? President Jarosław Kaczyński participated in the analysis of hundreds at the level of almost 11% and they have been repeated many times. Kaczyński also performed as a guest of the news. It gave him almost 21 minutes, plus the last 12 minutes. There were four politicians from the PiS camp in the top five of the news, besides Jarosław Kaczyński Beata Szydło, Zbigniew Ziobro, Joachim Brudziński. What does it look like right now? The basic journalistic standards concerning the separation of information from comment are still not being followed, the comment is in the information - negative against the opposition, positive against the ruling party. The basic principles of journalism that can be read, which can be learned from any course in journalism, are not respected in this most important medium, television. Because this is the most important psychic. And don't tell me we have 3 such media and they balance. Public television is, I repeat, funded by our resources and we have the right to demand that it be information, not propaganda. It's still going on and it's even getting worse. For the past two weeks, I have seen that the information shows the politicians of PiS - the Prime Minister, ministers, deputy prime minister - and for a moment a bar with information is shown: the candidate for law and justice. Does the PiS pay for this campaign ad? Is that okay? And let's go back a little bit in time. Personal attacks, ruthless. In 2017 and 2018 there was 1 thousand on public television in one year, and in the second year about 800 information about the President of Gdansk Pawle Adamowicz. All negative. What was the result? Public television is co-responsible for the death of Paul Adamowicz. Were you trying to do something about it? I don't hear anything about it. These attacks were transferred to President Gdansk Dulkiewicz. It appears on public television, which is to inform, in the same information, such a cluster: the German period of Gdańsk, Wehrmacht, Donald Tusk, President of the European Council, together with the portrait of Adolf Hitler. What are you doing with it? This is an objective transmission of information? A week ago, I was in Dzierzgon in some kind of private, small museum. They asked me and my group: where are you from? We answered: from Gdansk. Then you're Germans! Why would you take that kind of approach? Why are you talking to me like that? These people undoubtedly watched and watched public television, in which they say and repeat that Gdańsk is a German option, because Merkel of course called Tusk, and Tusk is from Gdansk, etc., etc. Polish society receives a potion that has such effects. That's the effect. This is unacceptable. And those who accept it... Not only those who do it, but those who accept it, are responsible, if not political, for it is moral. And what they look like. Stripes? What do they look like? Stripes? Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry, but time is up. I recommend 5 minutes of overtime. I'll be right back. I'm watching news because I have to watch it to know what's sipping in there. As you do not respond to such situations, the National Council of Radiophony and Television, I am proposing that the report be rejected. This situation needs to be changed. And there'll be another five minutes. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u79	Please take the floor of Senator Alexander Bobka.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u80	Mr. Marshal! Mr President! High Izbo! I'll start with that thought. In particular, we have received information on this issue in this first report. That today's media space is an extraordinary space. We live in times where... Well, there's something exciting about how a certain space is created, a reality where we're still grovelling, where there's a lot of threats, but there's huge opportunities. There are many dangers. And I see it that way, that's ahead of us, I mean. Before our society, before our civilization is the task of civilizing this space, because the media space is still uncivilized. On the one hand, we are here in the epoch of the latest technologies, and on the other hand in terms of culture we are in a kind of Stone Age, we are in a cave. European civilization has not yet organized, has not mastered this space. It must be a long process. I wasn't bored with the president's information here, because it was very interesting, but it wasn't for this gym and not here. These are complicated cases, more consistent with scientific conferences, with these kinds of bodies. We here are dominated by political thinking. A further part of my speech will focus on this matter, in fact less interesting, but more exciting today. Well, it's true. I share that view. That the media market in Poland is pluralistic. In this respect, we have nothing to be ashamed of; in my view, the situation in Poland is even better than in other European countries or in the world when it comes to effective freedom of expression in political space. In this respect, it is good in Poland. And it's your job to keep an eye on it, too, because there are threats here all the time. This threat is e.g. ownership concentration, but also various forms of censorship that occur informally. There were also elements in this information that the State was watching pluralism in the media market. There are certain problems with this, e.g. concerning the regional press, there is some less pluralism. The third issue, the most exciting one here, is the issue of public media, especially public television and what is called words which today, in the context of all that is happening, are actually difficult to pass through the throat, with the words "mission of public media." This concept in the context of not only recent years, but unfortunately the recent years have intensified this trend... The idea of public media missions in my opinion is actually some kind of grim joke and today it is difficult to really talk about such a mission. The element of this mission, which we are most interested in here today, is... There's an appropriate provision in the relevant law on this subject, and I don't want to twist the title... the element of this public media mission is the obligation to objectively report public life in the country. It is obvious, however, enshrined in the laws, but also, it would seem, obvious in a certain political and civilization culture in which we live. And looking at the public television in this matter, I asked this shy question, how do you judge the fulfilment of this task of public media. I understand that both of you are washing your hands in this matter, that washing your hands is probably what comes to mind here. But here's the thing. In a few words, I would describe her here. That today public media, especially television, TVP Info, are a place of constant propaganda. Well, it's hard to pretend it's not. This propaganda has basically one permanent message: the government is great, and the opposition is terrible. The paradox is this. Here, the opposition country will forgive me for saying this. That this message in my opinion is generally true, so the statement that television is lying... Well, there have already been voices about different analogys, there is an analogy with television from the 1970s, which also led permanent propaganda, only then could it be said: TV is lying. Because that message that it was great, it was just a fake. And today, the message that the government is doing good things, and the opposition is a little weaker... This is a false transmission. In your... I understand, Mr. Senator, but in my view, it is a message that is generally true. This is a real message. But the fact that this message is true does not justify or explain the means or forms of transmission. Because the form of conducting this message, once again, generally true, is... Well, here you'd have to think about what words to use not to exceed a certain limit of good taste, because this message is just terrible, this message is unacceptable. Well, public television has actually become the Ministry of Propaganda. We live in a state of law and ministries or public institutions, institutions that spend public money, operate under certain laws. There is no law in Poland that sanctions, legitimizes the operation of the Ministry of Propaganda, which works all the time, permanently promoting the success of the government and exposing the weaknesses of the opposition. There are no rules. On the contrary, there are other provisions, just those that I mentioned, which require a different action. So this is a bad situation. This is a situation in which there is a scandal, because if a public institution spending large public money is acting unlawfully, often radically contrary to the law, it is a public scandal. Then how are we supposed to expect citizens, other institutions, private institutions, to comply with the law if the public institution doesn't respect it? This is a very bad thing. And I'm a little surprised, and I'm a little sad that the institutions that stand guard of public order in Poland wash their hands of this situation. Finally... Again, I have a problem with how to describe it, because different associations come in here. One such association is the statement: the goal sanctifies the means. Right? So I imagine that today public television makers have a strong internal belief that they are working on the right cause, because they support a government that is generally a government of good change, so they have a sense that they are working on a good cause. But, ladies and gentlemen, history teaches us that acting on the principle of the goal sanctifies means, because we are acting on the right cause, is not an action that we defend. After a long period of time, those who have acted in accordance with the principle of the goal sanctify the means... This is not entirely appropriate, but we have the slogan or this formula, the goal sanctifies the means, we associate with the inquisition. This is again a subject for a longer historical reason, for which there is no time, but the Inquisition or the Inquisitors also acted in the belief that they were defending the Catholic Church from the dangers that threaten it, right? Today, after several centuries, an evaluation of the functioning of this institution It is clear that it is acting in a just cause and defending the right things, but in a wicked way it is clear. I have no doubt that, at some point in time, the assessment of the operation of the current public television authorities will be similar... It's gonna be similar because the target doesn't justify the means. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u81	Thank you very much. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u82	Dear Marshal, Mr. Senators and gentlemen of the Senators! Dear guests! Because this is our last meeting... No, the penultimate. ...on the adoption in this term of office of the report of the National Radio and Television Council and the National Media Council, I would like to take a moment and sum up this cooperation. I must say that regardless of how we evaluate today's media market in Poland, cooperation with the National Radio and Television Council can be considered fatal in terms of the Committee on Culture and Media. The lack of an answer that Mr Fedorowicz spoke about, and the fact that the National Council of Radiophony and Television for 1.5 years or 2 years hid from us the results of the research which it had ordered from one of the scientific centres, and did not want to make them available to the Committee on Culture, show that you are treating the Senate and that you are here reporting to us as some unpleasant duty in your activities, which, as it turns out, does not lead to anything specifically and does not solve any problems in Poland. And it is very sad that you treat the Senate in this way, that in this way you also approach your duties, even if you are obliged to answer the questions asked by the Committee on Culture in due time. The second thing I'd like to say is actually... We speak to you, you are responsible for the shape of the media in Poland, including public media, but in these meetings should be attended by the president of public television, we should meet with the president from time to time. If I recall correctly, unfortunately there was only one such meeting, and I believe that every meeting on the reports of the National Radio and Television Council should be attended by the president of public television because of its exceptional character... and that this television costs us so much, and in this term of office especially because we granted television grants directly from the budget, we also granted loans. I, following myself in my previous term of office... I remember the problems that were raised at the cultural committee meetings, and I followed them. The main problems concerned the matter of Radio Maryja etc., such were the main issues at the meetings of the cultural committee. There has never been anything like this that still the main topic at the meetings of the cultural committee in the Seym and the Senate was the quality of public media and reservations about these media. Let me tell you that the state, as you are sitting here, and the National Media Council, and the National Council, you are responsible for what is happening right now. And like Senator Bobko said, I'm already paraphrasing your statement. You can't wash your hands and you can't say that our country house or we weren't interested in it, or no one informed us, or to give us a funny answer, that the principal gave up on her own. Yes, in the election campaign, the principal resigns, retires and is replaced by another media officer. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to such a matter. The fact that TVP became an instrument of propaganda, Senator Borusewicz spoke here, and Senator Bobko also spoke about it. That's for sure, there's no doubt about it. There's research on it, there's analysis. You know them very well. You also introduced them to Senator Borusewicz, for example, an analysis of the Batory Foundation. This isn't the first time it's been done. Other tests are being carried out. The viewers just don't trust public television. As far as the assessment of information matters is concerned, this television is at the end. So, if you don't take over, if you're on the agenda, you really should consider whether to accept... whether or not to agree to work at a place where you don't do anything and you don't do things, you don't solve the problems you're called to solve. You take care of media pluralism, you take care of objectivity, etc., etc. It's not in Poland, it's not in public media. And that is the biggest problem right now with the activities of the National Council and the National Media Council. I said propaganda. I think this propaganda isn't the worst thing. What I accuse television of today is creating huge divisions between Poles, that is, dividing society into groups, that is, pointing out those who are good, that is, governing party, ruling party, and those who are evil, that is, everyone else. You and President Kurski are responsible for this, for the huge, unimaginable divisions that exist at the moment. Because people What did Marshal Borusewicz draw attention to? In television, quotes from public television, which treat it as a revealed truth, are already used in public life, give such arguments. How do you know that? How do you know that? Oh, I heard it on TV. Television has been a respected institution for years. What was said on TV was accepted as credible. You've destroyed this country and you're just fooling people, you're sucking this hate. I'd also like to talk about hey here. The fact that television is the source of the hat is unimaginable. Public television in Poland is building hatred. In public television there are journalists who participate in the so-called. hate machine, social media, public television and other media, government press. This is, you can say, organized hat. On the occasion of the case at the Ministry of Justice, it all came out, and the names came out there as well. On the occasion of the heith scandal in the Ministry of Justice, names were given, and the names of journalists were given to public television. If one of you is watching, for example. Twitter, it might see that the TVP Info portal that appears on Twitter is one big... You can take a look, because it's easy to check something like that, you don't have to watch for hours. I admire those who watch the news for hours. You don't have to watch any more. You can only see short messages. All messages concerning the government and the ruling party are positive and all messages concerning the opposition are negative. This also applies to those who are currently running for election. It's unimaginable. I share these strong words, I share the opinion of Marshal Borusewicz on responsibility, responsibility for the death of President Adamowicz. Because whoever's blowing the wind is picking up the storm. Those who manage public media in Poland must realise that if hatred is sown, then there are consequences. And at the moment Poles can't sit together sometimes at Christmas table, so they are divided, quarreled, among others. Because on public television they get a dichotomy picture of the world. There are good rulers and bad all the others who don't identify themselves... These divisions and this hatred will stay with us for a long time. You are also co-responsible for this. And the National Radio and Television Council, which, ladies and gentlemen, employs 150 people I don't know exactly how many, but about a hundred and a half people And it costs us 25 million zlotys from the state budget, that is, ladies and gentlemen, an institution that is unable to cope with anything. And finally to our opposition colleague, Mr. Jan Maria Jackowski. Well, right now, getting Donald Tusk's statement on the subscription fee, four years after the government... when you created it. Sorry, for that expression, it doesn't apply to people. The legal monster, which is the National Media Council, which can't do anything, is capable of doing nothing, knows nothing, and doesn't decide anything... If only something like this could be done by law and justice, it means that it is responsible for this condition that we now have to contribute to the TV from the Polish Television propaganda machine from our taxes, from the taxes of Poles. This is unbelievable. You haven't made a bill that would prevent it. You haven't prevented funding problems. You finance from the budget hat and propaganda, just like that. This is noticed by humans, it is visible in the research. We're dealing with an apparent lie here. I take your statements once again. I'm almost done, Mr. Marshal. It's like washing hands. You're not aware of the National Radio and Television Council... Read in the constitution, read in the bill, what you were called to do. You don't do anything about it. You have led to the collapse of public media in Poland, moral decline and financial decline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u83	Thank you. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u84	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I'll tell you what, I'll be done in two minutes. There's no public media anymore. There's no such thing. The dream that we fulfilled 30 years ago, that there would be public media funded by civic means, no longer exists. And we have no delusions here. That's all we're talking about, it's just hypocrisy. I don't want to appeal to all of this anymore, because the words of Marshal Borusewicz, who has won my freedom, based on documents, testify to all this. I can only say that I hope that there will be a change in us and some recollection. I'll give you an example now... This will be, Mr. Marshal, my last statement in the Senate of this term. If I go through the election again, maybe I'll do it again, but if I don't go through it, I'll do my job. But I'll give you an example. I was approached by regional television to take part in a debate between two candidates for the Senate in Krakow. I respect my TV, she doesn't cross the line. The head of this television, apologizing to me, says, "Senator, you will not be talking live." Mr. Marshal, he says to me that this debate with my opponent, a very respected citizen of the city, will not be live, two older gentlemen... He says, sir, we're recording this show. They're honest, nothing's been assembled. I say it because Mr. Jacek Kurski It watches, it laughs at the ball. Regional centers, as your Marshal Panczyk said, are barely alive, they simply don't have any money, but in the meantime the television with huge money is running in various areas, unfortunately mostly in the area of propaganda for one ruling group today. As everything has already been said, and I am the head of this committee, which has adopted the information, of course with my repeal, I am making amendments to the draft resolution on the report of the National Council. Should I read them, whether they are obvious, i.e. Is it that we reject the report? It's in writing. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz has already talked about this, but... I submit on your behalf, Mr. Marshal... I already have. You've already put it together. So we put the two of us together because of my function. Thank you, gentlemen, and I wish that we would meet at a place where such words of an artist and a man of freedom will not have to fall. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u85	Thank you. And again, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, five minutes. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u86	The heads of public television are creative. So-called. stripes are precisely this creation, the development of information. They just showed up in this term. What do they look like? I will read a few stripes concerning the ruling PiS: And that's not true? That's not true? Really? Next: Good time for Poland, no more debt for Poles. Last but not least, the government of PiS is a good time for Poland. That's the most important thing. What about the other side? What about the opposition: Exactly. Please: Shocking opposition strategies, Mr Schetin's Outrage, questions about Schetin's standards, opposition delusion, opposition without vision. You can travesty: who has television, it has a vision, just like that, a striped one. And also: Catastrof Trzaskowskiego, Poles do not trust the opposition candidates, the platform for defending corrupt politicians. In the light of various cases, it shows this narrative. I watched the TV Journal in the times of Gierek and there were all good things served, the successes of the then government and the then party. The opposition wasn't really talked about, because she was illegal. Maybe that's where they mentioned it at the end, but when they locked someone up, they didn't talk about it. It's not just a continuation of the 19.30s tradition. Well, the Poles remembered that there was information at 7:30, and they still turn on public television, thinking that this is information, and here is disinformation. At the same time, commentators are invited, the same over and over again. That's all you got? That's Jack Kurski's question: don't you have any commentators who have the same views? Well, these are Mieczysław Ryba, Ryszard Jółaniecki, Wiesław Wysocki, Paweł Lisicki, and above all Michał Karnowski. Of course, we know what these comments are if you invite such commentators. These are commentators connected to the PiS. And finally I left the local radio, public radio in Gdańsk and Wrocław. It is not a coincidence that Gdańsk changed on 23 September, already during the election campaign, the President of the public radio. It is no coincidence that the President of the public radio was also changed in Wrocław. These are 2 places where the PiS management is dissatisfied with the result. These are the 2 places where the PiS management will certainly be dissatisfied with the result. In Radio Gdansk, in the last less than 3 years, the appointed PiS Liberadzki has been changed. He wasn't active enough when it came to propaganda. And then Vasilewski, who replaced him and was not active enough with regard to the propaganda of PiS-owska. And now we have the third. It's a change for the worse. What I'm saying is I'm talking to the National Media Council. You are responsible for these changes. And please, Mr President, don't pretend that you don't know what it is about, that you don't have information, since this information is coming to me, and it's certainly harder to get this information to me than to you. What's this? That's public media? If you're changing bosses every now and then, what's the stability in this public media? What's the stabilization? For Liberadzki no one was fired, for Wasielewski a few of the most important journalists who run the most important programs were fired, and now it will probably fly. Mr. Marshal, time... The National Media Council is not a constitutional body, it is a statutory body and the National Council is a constitutional body. Do your duty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u87	Thank you. I'll ask Senator Kazimierz Kleina to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u88	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Most of the comments that also occurred to me when I listened to this debate and reports, you said to Marshal Borusewicz 100% of the total weight of the product (in tonnes) I'm signing my name. So I'm going to say this very briefly. For many years, I have been an observer for the OSCE for various parliamentary elections in various countries following the collapse of the former Soviet Union. We, as the OSCE delegation, have always watched whether elections are held democratically. In many countries we had comments, some did not. You know what it's like to be elected. But in different countries, where there were doubts about elections, they told us this way: Mr. Senator, the elections in our country are not falsifying at the ballot box. They are not forged by miscounting or casting votes. No, an election forgery occurs earlier. This was particularly mentioned in Belarus. Because elections are being forged during the election campaign, during which only one party has an unlimited or candy picture transmitted on television. Unfortunately, that's the way it is with us. This is happening in Poland right now. Radio and public television, which should be a model of how reality is shown, should show it in a complicated way... Even if you acknowledge that a part of the state recognises or even if we believe that private media are biased, public media should be a model of how information is provided, how people are talked to, what is the message. They should be a model of objectivity. And then we can speak ill of them if... Mr Kołodziejski said that we are acting on the principle of balance. Something was wrong on TVP, so we're looking at TVN. No, that's not what this is about. Public media Once again, I say this. They are the most important media in Poland, they should be. They should be respected, liked, etc. Today they are a transmission of practically one page. And in the media. I'm sorry. It's manipulating the image. Less than a word, more like a painting. Even if there's a good message, or if there's an objective message, there's a picture to dissuade the viewer from the people they're talking about, the things they're talking about... and so on. A Classic Example That's what Marshal Borusewicz mentioned. It concerns this Germanness of Gdansk. Well, there were bandits, just bandits, dishonest relationships, humiliating us. It's about Germanity, but it was also... I've talked about this before, because I was just outraged by the fact that he's manipulating himself. Kashubian flags, Kashubian texts, suggesting that they are related to Germany. Well, that's just unacceptable. And no one's responding to that, no one. It's just unacceptable. Now it's about the election. There was mentioned Radio Gdansk here. You can say that in your reports everything will probably work out perfectly... The journalist had a conversation with me, he had a conversation with my competitor, and a few days later he had a conversation with the Senate Marshal who visited Gdansk. And, ladies and gentlemen... That's what I called the journalist's attention to. 15 minutes talking to me and one attack, not even me, just all the different LGBT ideologies, etc. I finally said this: Mr. Editor, do you invite me to hear my opinion on something from me, or do you want to expose your theory here? Again, it was like I said, the criminal behavior of a journalist. When I left the paper, the reporters apologized to me. President Wasielewski, the one who left a few days ago, called me with an apology, and he said... That's why he's gone, Senator. And President Wasielewski said this: I am sorry, but I have no influence on this journalist, more, I have no influence on the fact that he is employed by me. I didn't mean the president to tell him what to say or how to talk to me. He's an employee who should be doing this honestly and really... Before me, two days earlier, he talked to my competitor. I interrogated this conversation. The journalist was open, asked what else that person would want to say, etc., etc., just honey in his mouth. [[Talking in the O.R.]] A few days later, he talks to the Senate Marshal in an absolutely political context. Well, it's just that the same man is disappearing, that even the Senate Marshal feels embarrassed about his way of conducting a discussion. Everything in your reports will work out perfectly. It's gonna work out perfectly because the opposition was, and the ruling coalition was, and everyone else was. But the way in which this project is implemented is simply unacceptable, is an example of complete manipulation. And that's sad. You are responsible for public media. We're probably all responsible for the public media, but you're running it, so you're responsible for how you treat a viewer, a listener, a citizen. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo! Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u89	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I would like to inform you that Senator Bogdan Borusewicz and Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz have submitted legislative proposals in writing. The joint discussion is closed. Does the chairman of the National Radio and Television Council, Mr Witold Kołodziejski, still want to speak? No. Thank you very much. Does the President of the National Media Council, Mr Krzysztof Czabański, want to speak again? No, thank you. Thank you very much. As proposals of a legislative nature have been tabled for a draft resolution on the report of the National Radio and Television Council in 2018 and for a draft resolution on information on the activities of the National Media Council in 2018, I ask the Committee on Culture and Communications to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare reports. I propose that the Senate set a deadline for the committee to submit additional reports so that it is possible to proceed to the third reading at this meeting. If I do not hear the votes of objection, I will find that the Senate has accepted the motion. In the absence of any votes against, I state that the Senate has accepted the proposal. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Polish Institute of International Affairs. The text of the Act is contained in print No. 1298 and the report of the committee In print No 1298 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Jarosław Oremski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u90	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The aim of the Act is to enable the Polish Institute of International Affairs to create long-distance branches. The plan begins with the establishment of two such outskirts: Brussels and Washington. This seems to be a very good initiative. Our diplomatic offices cannot participate in all expert meetings for many reasons, however, where a certain opinion is created, and through the work of the Polish Institute of International Affairs we will have faster information about new ideas, changes in certain trends in these two important capitals. The Commission supported the law. It was a parliamentary project. I ask the High House to adopt the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u91	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator, Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome, Senator. I'm gonna need you to come to the pep talker.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u92	Senator rapporteur, what will be the cost of setting up these two branches? Does that also mean, Mr. Senator, that the cast at the embassy is too small or that the embassy doesn't do its job? This is what embassies have been doing so far.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u93	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u94	If you could clarify what kind of cases the embassy has been dealing with so far... 'Cause you used the phrase "that" so I'd like to understand it. Promotion of Poland, participation in discussions, organizing such discussions. Okay, now I get it. Thank you. Do you understand? Yes. You're with the Foreign Affairs Committee, right? Yeah, yeah. Then you should understand without clarifying my questions. Mr. Marshal, that was such a naughty comment, really. Good. I think there's two cases. I mean, if we are talking about the Polish Institute of International Affairs, it is an institution which is a certain think tank, which tries to analytically gather knowledge about certain changes in world foreign policy and thus assist the Polish Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In the case of diplomats, we deal with the fact that not all things can be attended because they are carrying out a diplomat's mandate, among others. in various types of expert meetings. That's where I think the big difference is. This is the first element. The second element: diplomacy also means not quite the ability to say what an expert sent for this type of discussion can say. I think there's something else here... I mean, I hope that here the aim is not to pursue a certain historical policy or advertise Poland in such a simple way, but to influence the shape of an expert opinion in the world through participation in discussions and through influence in Washington and Brussels. I think these are completely different things. I can't tell you right now... At the committee meeting, it was said what the cost was. I'm sorry, I can't say... Of course, this entails additional costs. As far as I know, this is already included in the draft budget for next year.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u95	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Senator of the rapporteur? There isn't. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Mr Maciej Lang, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is present at the meeting. Minister? Yes. Minister, before I turn you in, there's only one point: I have a recess at 12:00. And now I'm wondering... 30 seconds. Good. Then you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u96	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would just like to say that, for obvious reasons, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs fully supports the project and arguments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u97	Please stay a while longer... At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. I see you're reporting to Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u98	Minister, what are the costs? Right now, Mr. Senator... Wait, I still have a second question, short. Does this initiative, which the Ministry supports, mean that embassies are unable to fulfil such responsibilities?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u99	Of course, as has been said here, such institutions have completely different tasks. It's about working in expert circles, opinion-forming circles. It's about forming, creating opinions, which is not the direct task of embassies. This is an international practice. I mean, it's not just a phenomenon of Poland or of PISM. The same institutions create their representations everywhere in the world, and we follow this example of best practices. So this is not a Polish uniqueness, but the result of research and studies on impact efficiency. In my long-standing diplomatic practice alone, I have repeatedly observed the effectiveness of this type of action and I have no doubt about it. The diplomat will always remain a diplomat, he cannot act like an expert or an analyst. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u100	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you, Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u101	But I'm sorry, you just said it would cost money. How much is it gonna cost? Can you give me a specific sum?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u102	I can't give you a specific sum right now. I know that the means have been provided for this. We can answer in writing. Well, in writing, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u103	Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion, and I'm informing you that none of your senators have signed up... I'm checking in. Mr. Marshal, but I have to announce a recess because it's the opening of the exhibition at 12 o'clock. Okay. That's after the break, right? Of course after the break. In that case, I'd like you to read the Senator Secretary's messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u104	The meeting of the Committee on Culture and Communications on the consideration of the requests submitted to the report of the National Radio and Television Council in 2018 together with information on the basic radio and television problems in 2018 and on the activities of the National Media Council in 2018 will take place today, 26 September 2019 at 1 p.m. in room 182. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u105	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby announce a recess until 13.30 a.m. I invite you to the opening of the exhibition "Lodzianie dla Niepodlególne." Heroes and citizens, and also invite you to the joint photograph of the 9th term senators at 12.30. Gather round in the lobby on the ground floor. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 01 to 13 minutes 30]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u106	I'm reopening the session. We return to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Polish Institute of International Affairs. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u107	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! I'm having second thoughts. About this bill. Why do I have these doubts, serious doubts? That's because I remember a situation where the embassy was accompanied by sales advisors. In foreign policy there was dualism and it was very difficult to subjugate trade councils to ambassadors. It took many, many years. And at the moment we have such a situation that this is another law, which provides that foreign policy is to be a foreign policy, because this proposal to create foreign branches of PISM is to be created in another institution. We have passed, i.e. The majority of the ruling PiS agreed that the Prime Minister's firm would set up its institutes abroad. Minister Dworczyk was here who justified this, so I call them the Institutes of Minister Dworczyk. The IPN appoints Pilecki Institutes, which are its agendas outside the country. And here another institution and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs supports it, saying that it is a very good idea to set up another institution's exclusivity. I ask myself, who will lead foreign policy and coordinate it? This is a shift and a distraction of this policy. I believe that foreign policy is one area of the state which should be directed from one centre and which should be subject to one centre. Although PISM is an agenda of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it is a separate entity, because it should be treated as such, otherwise the Ministry of Foreign Affairs would have called a think tank rather than a PISM. So I have reservations about the kind of foreign policy that, going this way, it can expand in such a way that its coordination will be difficult or impossible. Although there is no longer a Ministry of Economy, it may be thought that the Ministry of Economic Affairs will also want to set up its agendas, as it were, back to the past, and the arguments behind it would be rational, i.e. This would be the argument that it is an economic function and that our companies should be operated by specialised branches. So I'm having second thoughts here. I'm surprised the Foreign Ministry doesn't have that kind of doubt. But we'll see how it all works in these new branches, including those departments I've told you about, which we've already voted on.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u108	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. You're welcome, Senator Oremski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u109	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! PISM has been in existence for many years, and I will admit that somehow I have not noticed that PISM is pursuing a separate policy in relation to the policy of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Therefore, thinking that the outbacks in Brussels and Washington As Marshal Borusewicz pointed out, They're gonna cause the embassy to double... I'm reading it as just a supplement. We might as well say that the representations of the "Lot" abroad should be absorbed by the embassy. Although perhaps a better analogy would be that maybe the PAS should have its place at the embassy, not outside. Let's separate the issues of analysts and what experts can say from what a diplomat's job is. In my opinion, these are two slightly different worlds. A real analyst can write something sharper than what a diplomat can say. Of course, a diplomat in his ciphers for the use of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs can write what... But in the case of official language there are, of course, certain limitations. And I think we're trying to confuse the concepts here. What is, as it was said at the committee meeting, the ear, and what is to be or what is already an area of policy implementation. Analysts are not the same as decision-making and active policy-making. That's just an explanation, because I have the impression that there's been some disruption here, and that's not only different from reality, but also from the intentions of those who were preparing this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u110	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. And I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Today? Yes, today, at the end of the day. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the United States of America on cooperation in the field of border security and immigration, signed in Washington on 16 August 2019. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1292, and the Commission's reports In prints 1292 A and 1292 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Richard Majer, to submit a report to the committee. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u111	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I am pleased to present a report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union on the Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the United States of America on cooperation in the field of border security and immigration, signed in Washington on 16 August 2019. The purpose of this Agreement is to provide mutual assistance in the effective application and enforcement of the national laws of both States. Cooperation is to be carried out through the exchange of information to verify the identity of the person, his nationality or the country of origin, the identification of potential grounds for refusal of entry and residence and the reasons for the person's obligation to return. The agreement contains solutions for access to biometric databases, determines how other personal data and additional information are transmitted and regulates the protection of the transfer of personal data. The Commission examined this law on 24 August. Nobody's objecting. We recommend that the Senate adopt the attached draft resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u112	Thank you, Senator. I would like to inform you that the senators can report from a place of no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. To present the government's position in the course of work... Sorry, there's another rapporteur. Excuse me. I will now ask Senator Andrzej Mioduszewski, rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, to present a report to this committee. Please, Mr. Senator, and I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Gentlemen of Ministers! High Senate! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions on the Act of 30 August 2019 on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the United States of America on cooperation in the field of border security and immigration, signed in Washington on 16 August 2019. Senator Ryszard Majer presented the purpose and subject of the bill, so I will limit myself to saying that binding the Republic of Poland with this agreement will not result in changes in national law. Nor does the Act raise any legislative objections. Following the review of the Act at its meeting on 25 September 2019, the committee asks: The High Senate to adopt the attached draft resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u114	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of question to the senators of the rapporteurs. Let me ask you one more time: would any of you like to ask me a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have Minister Sylvester Tułayev, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill? No. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Are there any such questions? I don't see any calls. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up for this discussion. I therefore close the discussion. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill will be held today at the end of the meeting. We proceed with the review of item 16 of the agenda: the Law amending the pharmaceutical law and certain other laws. The text of the act is contained in print No 1302, and the report of the committee In print No 1302 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Konstanty Radziwiłł, to submit a report to the committee. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u115	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Chief Pharmaceutical Inspector! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position or proposal of the Health Commission on the Law amending the pharmaceutical law and certain other laws. In short, the committee requests that this law be passed without amendments. A few words about the law itself and the proceedings of the committee. In principle, the Act seeks to ensure the application of the European Commission Delegated Regulation 2016/161, which complements Directive 2001/83 of the European Parliament and of the Council. In short, this directive is called an anti-counterfeiting directive. It is intended to ensure that unknown medicines are not present on the market, generally falsified. There is no precise data on this phenomenon, but it seems that especially the development of the Internet, as well as other modern methods of doing business causes, however, a small part of... Because we are talking about drugs, substances that are necessary for treatment on the one hand and can be dangerous on the other hand, this phenomenon requires some address. This is the decision of the European Commission, the European Parliament, the Council. Due to the fact that we are dealing with a delegated regulation, it is applied directly, but requires the adaptation of certain Polish rules. The Regulation has already entered into force in February 2016, although it can be said that it enters into force more and more in different phases. One of the effects of this regulation is the imposition on drug dealers in Poland of certain formal and technical obligations to ensure that any situation where there is any suspicion that the product could be falsified is alerted. These alerts due to the application of these provisions, inter alia. in relation to the products that were produced earlier, there was a great deal at first, but at the moment, as we were informed at the committee meeting, their numbers are steadily falling, so it seems that the situation is slowly getting right. As regards what the proposed law regulates, it can most generally be said that it imposes new tasks and competences on the chief pharmaceutical inspector, as well as on the voivodship pharmaceutical inspectors, related to the supervision of compliance with the obligations under Regulation 2016/161. I will not discuss these responsibilities, they are largely of a very technical, specialised nature. One of the elements that can be said to arouse and arouse emotions also during the committee meeting and during earlier work on the Law in the Sejm are penalties for non-compliance with the rules resulting from these provisions. You can say that there is a whole long list of various violations that start with, for example. A wholesaler or pharmacy cooperates, picks up drugs from some unaccredited, uncertified source, in short, the source of the suspect's suspicion that he's falsifying drugs. And among others. in view of the discussion on how these penalties should look, especially with regard to... In general, it must be said that the law gives the maximum level of penalties, which is not penalties, so to speak, mandatory, automatic, only maximum. As a result of the discussion in the Sejm, a decision was made to reduce the maximum penalty, which can be imposed on pharmacys from PLN 100,000 to PLN 20,000. This amendment in the Seym obtained a majority, was introduced into the bill. It should also be said that, in principle, this law deals with pharmaceutical law, but another amendment was introduced in the Sejm, amending the Law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care in relation to the system for the management of patient modes in the hospital emergency department. This amendment mainly concerned the date of entry into force of certain provisions of the Law. The Law in the Seym did not arouse any extraordinary emotions. It was adopted, adopted, 411 Members voted in favour, 1 against and 1 abstention. Moreover, at the committee meeting, there were no extraordinary discussions, although the representative of the pharmaceutical wholesalers association proposed the following amendment at the meeting. And he asked for it to be taken over, which, on a similar basis to the pharmacies principle, would apply to pharmaceutical wholesalers. Namely, the law provides that the maximum penalty that may be imposed on the wholesaler is PLN 500 thousand. And there was an offer to reduce this punishment to PLN 100,000. The argument was that for some wholesalers such a high penalty could in principle mean bankruptcy, end of business, etc. But President Stachnik of this association did not succeed very much in convincing this in the discussion of any of the senators. It was emphasized that since it is a maximum penalty, it will probably only be applied in exceptional situations, such as when there was not so much a breach of some formal or technical obligations imposed by the law on wholesalers, but to enter into the way of distributing counterfeit medicines, counterfeits. In short, in fact, in such situations this punishment is either very ailing or even eliminating such an entity from the drug market. So none of the senators has made this amendment and, as a result, after discussion, mainly on this subject, the committee, as I said before, has adopted a law without amendments. And that is also the proposal for the High Senate.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u116	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would anyone like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. The chief pharmaceutical inspector, Mr. Paweł Piotrowski, is with us today. Would you like to speak on the bill? No. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would anyone like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill will be held today at the end of the meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on recognition as invalid of judgments handed down against persons being repressed as an activity for the independent existence of the Polish State. The text of the Act is contained in print No. 1296, and the report of the Commission In print No 1296 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Jan Rulewski, to submit a report to the committee. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u117	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a duty to present on behalf of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions a report on her work that took place yesterday. This happens at the following moment. The project developed in the Senate, prepared by the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, was already created in 2017, so it's easy to see that he was lying in the Sejm and only today, and at the last moment, let's add: thanks to the sensitivity of Marshal Witek, he was given a chance to make his adoption a reality in this term of office. What's it about? It concerns all those who, as a result of persecution, met with the harmful judgments of the judicial authorities in the former Polish People's Republic. The 1991 Act granted them the right to annul them and, second, to annul them. To claim damages and compensation for suffering and harm. As a result of the joint action of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Ombudsman, with the delicate suggestion of the Constitutional Tribunal, we felt that this law, or indeed its updating, contained a fundamental error, even of a constitutional nature. Namely, the law granted the right to compensation only in respect of the harm caused by the execution of the sentence, so to put it simply, if the person concerned was interned, arrested or subjected to other repression. Thus, the literal interpretation of that law indicated that the other effects of this action or the effects which the person did not directly suffer from internment or arrest are not taken into account as appropriate in relation to the right to claim. But the senators of the Committee on Human Rights, the Laws and Petitions went further and noticed that in the original text there was a limitation on the time when claims against the Treasury were made. Namely the period when the annulment of decisions can occur... The previous law, or actually in force so far, has set this period for 1 year. Given the fact that... it was surprising, because mostly in civil law. However, this law is of a civil law nature. These periods are much longer. In the Labour Code 3 years, in the case of civil claims against debtors, in the case of contracts between customers and tenderers 6 years, and in the case of other claims, in the case of raptured by the State Treasury... this is up to 10 years old. In the case of alimony, that's three years, as I recall. In the meantime, for those who have dedicated themselves to the fight for freedom, the time limit for making claims is 1 year. And the senators have just decided to change that. And there were no time limits in the senate project. Come on. The amendment already adopted by promotion in this law removed a very important obstacle to the procedure of claiming compensation for the injury suffered in this way that... In the present state... I mean. in the previous state, but already a modified promotion, it was a normal application to the court, so it also involved the need to establish a proxy, to carry out an expensive time of evidence, which was an important barrier. Therefore, some of the opposition activists, quite unpopular or even poor, did not have claims. And this bill of promotion has granted the right that both the IPN prosecutor and the plaintiff can make such a claim. It was a very important change, I think it was implemented last year. And another one, the last one already covered by the Act. At the moment, there are still legal costs. This law exempts persons recognised in accordance with Article. 19 constitutions for distinguished, surrounded by special care, from bearing these costs. In the Senate's submission, the law was even richer with a group of entities, individually extended to persons considered as belonging to the anti-communist opposition or persecuted, and thus covered by the Act, also by the Senate, of 2015, as amended. However, differences of opinion between the Senate Chamber and the Sejm were revealed in the work of the Sejm. Namely, the subjective scope has been reduced, as a result of which the people I spoke about at the end, i.e. those considered to be opposition activists or persecuted, will not be able to benefit from the benefits of this law. But, look, these people could have used it before, because there was no law against it. The persons covered by the Act may have previously applied for this, but not all of them. Only those to whom the justice system has made itself clear by persecuting them with its decisions. The Sejm also did not share the position of the Senate, so that the time taken to make claims The material, but also psychological, harm was unlimited. The Sejm marked here a period of 10 years. Because of your willingness to participate in the work of the Sejm, in the work of the committee, I know that it was argued the costs, the costs of the wording of this article. Well, it's worth mentioning, because they're falling down here, even against the author of this speech, charges from a lot of activists. Well, maybe not many, but certainly from opposition activists and the persecuted, concerning a low level of compensation for the damage and losses suffered. Here it is worth mentioning the numbers that coincide with what is in the government's position. So far, 150 thousand judgments have been handed down against those who were injured during the period of the Polish People's Republic. But let's add that this is the period since 1956 and that under the Senate Act The number of positive decisions today seems to be 14 000. Some overlap, because if the person was arrested, of course he received a one-off compensation, and he is also the subject of the 2015 Act granting permanent material and intangible benefits. Yesterday, in the course of the committee's work, the Legislative Bureau submitted an amendment that clarified... it introduced a transitional provision for all those cases that are currently being resolved. That bill didn't practically refer to it. The question is whether it will be used in the area of redress for 1 year or 10 years, as the Senate proposes. But this also applies to those cases which were covered by this annual deadline and were not explicitly qualified as a claim for exceeding the deadline. The Commission accepted this amendment. Of course, she also accepted this seymous submission, and she passed it on to the High House to accept it. There is a general consensus that this should be the case, that this should be the case during the vote. Nevertheless, I would like to ask, together with the chairman of the committee, the Maternal Senator, to take into account another fact which has an impact on whether this law will enter into force in 14 days, as the rule states, or its entry into force will certainly be postponed for another few months, if not longer. In other words, the introduction of substantively justified amendments at today's stage of Parliament's work, which ends the term of office and is not certain that the law that was so hard-learned in the Sejm reminds me that it has been for almost 2 years and has not aroused the enthusiasm of Members and the Bureau... Is it worth the effort to risk her insolence today? Together with Mr Mathematical President, we believe that it is impossible to risk, especially since democracy in Poland is not finished, the doors of Parliament, including the Senate, are no longer closed forever. I am even saying that some senators will certainly be able to participate in further work. And these changes, the right ones, but under present circumstances difficult to carry out, will, I think, be taken into account. Therefore, Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, we are making an amendment with Senator Mathematical to adopt the bill without amendment. No corrections. Good. Thank you. Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators can report no more than a minute of questioning to the Senator of the rapporteur. Are there any such questions? There isn't. Thank you. The bill was filed by the Senate. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have Minister Sebastian Kalet with us today. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration? Yes, Minister? Yes. Yes. Then I'd like to invite you to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u118	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In the light of the discussion that occurred yesterday at the committee's meeting, the position of the government is as follows: this draft law is at this stage most appropriate because the amendments that appeared yesterday must be further examined in terms of the possibility for the courts to rule on such a provision, because the provision adopted by the law concerns criminal courts, and the regime for dealing with possible claims for compensation or compensation for dismissal should concern the cognition of civil courts. For this reason, as I understand it, Senator Rulewski's recommendation is that this case should not be linked to this bill. So in this respect, the government's position is in line with what Senator Rulewski put forward, i.e. That the bill be adopted in the form that was adopted at the committee meeting yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u119	Thank you very much, Minister. Currently, senators can report from a place of no longer than a minute of questioning. Minister, I'm asking you to go back to the podium because there will be a question. Senator Jerzy Czerwiński wishes to ask such a question. Anyone else from the senators? No. Senator Czerwinski. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u120	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This law introduces 2 amendments. One concerns the period, extending it from 1 year to 10 years. The second extends the subjective scope, i.e. not only those for whom the judgment has been executed, but also those for which a judgment has been given contrary to our current understanding... The question is... There is a transitional provision for these 10 years. It doesn't matter if he's gonna be there or not... We understand there's a discount. There's no need to make a decision. But there is no transitional provision as to the subject matter. There may have been cases where the courts refused to grant compensation or compensation because the sentence was only handed down and not executed. Now, in a new state of law, such a person could try to do it again, but the case is already being tried. Shouldn't a transitional provision be added here? I am saying this so that it stays in the record for those who will deal with this bill in the next term of office. The point is to include those who have been left out because of too narrow a subjective scope, and through this bill they have acquired the right to try again...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u121	Thank you very much, Senator. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u122	On this issue, which the senator points out, we will bend over and analyse whether it is possible to use the appropriate modes, e.g. whether or not there will be a need for further work on this problem. As the senator pointed out, the principle of discounting Parliament's work leaves this problem to be considered. But, of course, the Ministry is prepared to take a position on whether the interpretation rules or whether other institutions would apply here without an appropriate transitional provision. Wouldn't a transitional provision be enough? Then it would be clear. Mr Senator, we will examine whether it is possible, on the basis of the current procedure, to touch such judgments which were given prior to the entry into force of this law if it enters into force. So, like I said, it's going to be an analysis of whether it's possible. If not, Parliament will be able to lean on this issue in the next term of office.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u123	Thank you. Are there any more questions? No. Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I inform you, for the record, that Senator Robert Mammoth has made his speech in the discussion for the minutes. Because none of the senators signed up... I'm signing up. Yes? There you go. Senator Zbigniew Silence, roll over the tape. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u124	Ensign will always make it, as the soldiers say, so I made it. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm so glad this bill has come. Although late, it has been almost three years since we proposed her adoption by the Sejm in the Senate. That's the first thing you should be happy about. But I am a little sad that it has been slightly mutilated, because our proposals were much further and, in my opinion, more correct and fairer. Therefore, enjoying the fact that we change the general rule of responsibility by introducing liability not only for the execution of the judgment but also for its delivery, because, as you know, the consequences of the judgment they're much wider than the effects of its execution... In the case of execution, there were often situations where someone was convicted, let's say, for a few months of imprisonment, but the consequences of the sentence were far further along, for example. There was a case of a wolf ticket or dismissal and the inability to get a job. I know of cases where educated people had to undertake completely secondary, physical work, the type of running a vegetable-fruit kiosk or employment as a chauffeur delivering goods to such a kiosk. There are situations which have also led to a reduction in the resources of these people in terms of pensions. These cases have so far been irreparable, for they were not within the understanding of the consequences of the execution of the judgment, but they are within what we are now introducing, that is, in the understanding of the effects of the judgment. That is why this is significant progress, and praise to us, and to the Sejm also, praise him for following in the footsteps of what we have approved, which we have offered as the Senate. But I definitely can't say yes. And this is where I'm gonna come up with an amendment. To make things worse for these people. Well, here we are introducing a time-limit in our senate proposal for the recovery of these claims. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 of that law is proposed to introduce in Article. Paragraph 8 of the Act. 2, where a 10-year period is introduced for the claim for compensation or redress, calculated from the date of the decision to annul the decision of the communist court. Ladies and gentlemen, this is with great harm to many people, because there are many such persons who have obtained this annulment of the judgment, after which they have done nothing for 10 years, because they thought that since the rules are so faulty that there is only responsibility for the consequences of the execution of the judgment and not its delivery It's just now that we're introducing this... And that ten-year deadline is over, and they're in a lost position, and they can't claim it. This is one thing about certain things that have happened. And here's the thing, ladies and gentlemen, pro futuro. I don't think there's any reason. Even in the case of those who have not yet expired this 10-year period In order to introduce such a period, it is the democratic state's duty to correct injustices, which not by that democratic state, but by the communist regime that preceded them, were done to these people. And the state should be against these people, especially since there aren't a lot of them. They are people who are unfortunately leaving at an alarming rate. It is generous and should not be covered by a 10-year limitation period for the recovery of these claims. I believe that this regulation, which was not before, which we in the Senate did not foresee, is wrong to exist. I believe that it must be clearly eliminated. Besides, there's an offer. I was obliged to present it at the committee's meeting. In order to provide for the provision that liability for the effects of the decision also extends to compensation and redress for those persons who have been deprived of the possibility to pursue a profession or whose employment relationship has been resolved in connection with the decision or decision. Of course, one might wonder whether this is no longer part of the formulation that there is a responsibility for the consequences of the ruling, but knowing the judicial practice of the courts and the thinking of judges, which is sometimes very cautious... How to judge anything from the Treasury, because it is to think in such categories that the Treasury must be protected at all costs and should have a position stronger than the man, than the citizen, who is the opposite in this proceeding... So that if judges do not have expressis verbis written that such a claim is entitled to it, they tend to dismiss such claims. Therefore, in order to put a dot over And this was supported by the committee. In order to add an additional wording: compensation for the damage suffered and compensation for the damage suffered shall in particular be granted to a person who has been deprived of his profession or whose employment relationship has been resolved in connection with the decision or decision. I believe that then we will be morally okay with those people who are rightly entitled to these claims, and there will be a remedy for the harm that has been done by the communist regime to these people, how very brave. Because then the courage, ladies and gentlemen, wasn't cheap like it was today. And today, even though it's cheap, there aren't enough brave people either. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in that cruel communist system. That is why I am proposing this amendment. I believe that, after the removal of these two shortcomings, namely, firstly, introduced unduly limitation in the recovery of claims, and secondly, the omission of claims relating to the fact that someone has lost his or her job or the possibility of pursuing a profession... I think when we remove these shortcomings, we'll have a pretty decent bill that deserves to be applauded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u125	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing by Senators Jan Rulewski and Robert Mamytkow and Senator Zbigniew Cichoń. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? Yes. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u126	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As regards the issue of the deadline, I would like to clarify that the provision is so constructed that a claim is made on the basis of these new provisions since the entry into force of this law. Exactly. So that here this provision, which has been adopted, causes that since the entry into force of the Act there are 10 years to lodge claims. This type of construction is common in compensation laws, because the principle of legal certainty makes it necessary to have a certain period of time during which certain claims may be made. However, any person who has received a judgment giving rise to the termination of that claim, which happened earlier than 10 years ago, i.e. 11 years ago and more, will be able to benefit from this provision, as this new claim has arisen since the entry into force of the Act. So here in the opinion of the government there is no doubt. On the second point, by extending my earlier statement, I would like to add that the grounds for establishing compensation or redress... this provision is so designed that it allows an unambiguous assessment of the jurisdiction of the criminal courts which conduct such proceedings. The creation of new rules at this stage may lead to de facto divergences in the activities of the courts. However, there is no doubt that the consequences of the loss of work and the inability to find it after such a thing are also in relation to the damage and harm caused by such decisions, because such events have a direct link or may have a link, if proven in the courts, with the judgment given. This is the subject of regulation. So here I am consistently in the position that the current law is the most appropriate and will solve the problem that the applicants have seen.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u127	Thank you, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of this day, so tonight. Messages. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u128	The meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions on the consideration of the amendments tabled at the 80th Senate meeting to the Act amending the Act on Recognizing as Lenght judgements handed down against persons repressed for the purpose of the independent existence of the Polish State will take place on 26 September 2019 10 minutes after the announcement of the break in room 176. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u129	Thank you very much. I'm declaring a recess until 8:00 p.m. There'll be a vote at 8:00. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 24 to 20 minutes 00]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u130	I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the current 80th meeting will continue on 17 and 18 October. During these days the Senate will examine, among others. the laws adopted by the Sejm on 15 and 16 October this year. We are returning to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Law on the amendment of the Post Law and the Telecommunication Law. The Infrastructure Commission presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 1295 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 68 Senators voted, 67 in favour, no one opposed, one Senator abstained. [[Voting No 4]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Postal Law and the Telecommunication Law. We are returning to the second agenda: amendment of the Rail Transport Act. The Infrastructure Commission presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 1293 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? And I'm asking you to give me the results. 70 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 5]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Rail Transport. We are returning to the fourth item on the agenda: the Law on Flights of the Most Important Persons in the State. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on National Defence have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 1297 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 71 senators voted, 55 votes against, 12 against, and four senators abstained. [[Voting No 6]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on Flights of the Most Important Persons in the State. We return to the examination of item 5 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator and certain other laws. A meeting of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators Committee took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter; it is in print No 1303 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Konstanty Radziwiłł, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u131	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In principle, the Commission has not considered the amendments because a motion for rejection has been made and the proposal has received a majority: 5:4. Therefore, I propose to the High Senate a resolution of the following wording: the Senate, after considering the law adopted by the Sejm at its meeting on 11 September 2019 amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator and certain other laws, rejects this law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u132	Thank you very much. Do the applicant senator, Senator Sławomir Rybicki, and the other Senator rapporteur Leszek Piechota still want to speak? Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. The vote on the amendments tabled will be held if the previous proposals are rejected. We proceed with the vote on the committee's motion to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 69 senators voted, 15 for, 53 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 7]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the motion of the minority of the committee to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? And I'm asking you to give me the results. 69 senators voted, 52 votes against, 14 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 8]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Law on Public Procurement. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate print No 1308 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 71 senators voted, 58 votes against, 11 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 9]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law on public procurement. We are returning to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Law on the Law introducing the Law on Public Procurement. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate print No 1309 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 71 senators voted, 58 votes against, 12 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 10]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law on the law of the state of public procurement. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending the Environmental Law and some other laws. The meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject; it is in print No 1305 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Wojciech Piecha, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u133	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Report from the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment on the amendment of the Act on Environmental Protection and some other laws. Following the debate, the committees request the adoption of a draft law with amendments Nos 1, 3 and 4. In addition, committees shall inform that on the basis of Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. Senator This is point 2 of the table of proposals. The committees are asking for the bill to be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u134	Does Senator Tadeusz Kopeć, as the applicant, still want to speak? But why? He'll tell you. Thank you very much. Let me remind you that Senator Tadeusz Kopeć has withdrawn his application. This is point 2 in print No 1305 Z. Does any of your senators want to maintain the withdrawal? [[Talking in the O.R.]] I don't see any volunteers. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment 1 complements the provision on the content of the clause submitted by the entity required to make a declaration under criminal liability. The purpose of the amendment is also to maintain the continuity of numbering under the provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 69 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 11]] Amendment accepted. Amendment 2 has been withdrawn. Amendment 3 introduces transitional regulation in respect of matters governed by the amended laws of the construction and energy law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 70 senators voted, all voted in favour. [[Voting No 12]] Amendment 4 provides that amendments to the Construction Law and Energy Law will enter into force on 1 January 2020. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 69 senators voted, all voted in favour. [[Voting No 13]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 71 Senators voted 69 and 2 Senators abstained. [[Voting No 14]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Environmental Law and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Protection of the Environment. The Environment Committee presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 1294 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 71 Senators voted 69 and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 15]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Environmental Protection Law. We are returning to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2019, the Act on the Company Social Benefits Fund and the Act on the Charter of the Large Family. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy presented a draft resolution in which they proposed to adopt this law without amendments; Senate print No 1304 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 70 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 16]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2019, the Act on the Company Social Benefits Fund and the Act on the Charter of the Large Family. We're coming back... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Okay? We're back on point 12... Eleven o'clock. My cards just slipped through. On the 11th, yes, on the 11th. We return to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Income of Local Government Units. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate print No 1301 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 70 senators voted, 69 for, one abstention. [[Voting No 17]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Income of Local Government Units. We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Act on the repeal of the Act on special hydrocarbon tax and on the amendment of certain other laws. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 1300 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 71 Senators voted 70 and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 18]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on the repeal of the Act on special hydrocarbon tax and on the amendment of certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the law on amending the law on enforcement proceedings in the administration and certain other laws. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions have presented single-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate prints Nos 1299 A and 1299 B. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 68 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 19]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the law on enforcement proceedings in the administration and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Water Law and certain other laws. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 1306 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 69 senators voted, 57 votes against, 11 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 20]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Water Law and certain other laws. We are returning to the 15th agenda: the Act on Work on Fishing Ships. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate print No 1304 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 69 senators voted... No. 71 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 21]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on Work on Fishing Ships. We return to the review of item 16 of the agenda: the Law amending the pharmaceutical law and certain other laws. The Health Commission presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 1302 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 71 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 22]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the pharmaceutical law and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on recognition as invalid of judgments handed down against persons being repressed for the purpose of the independent existence of the Polish State. The session was interrupted by a meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, which responded to the proposals put forward in the course of the debate and presented a report on the matter; it is in print No 1396 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Jan Rulewski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u135	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission considered 1 proposal and 2 amendments tabled during the Senate meeting. The Commission commended those who tabled the amendments, i.e. However, Senator Cichonia and the legislative department decided to adopt the law without amendments, bearing in mind the end of the parliamentary term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u136	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? I would remind you that the conclusions were made during the discussion: Senator Zbigniew Cichoń, Senator Robert Mamytkow and Senator Jan Rulewski. Please, Senator Zbigniew Silence. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u137	I assure you, Marshal, I'll be able to fit in one minute. Ladies and gentlemen, I fully agree with the fact that it is worth the bill may not be as perfect as we intended... That was the subject of my amendments. However, the point is that it should exist, because there was indeed a risk that if we had made these amendments, the whole legislative procedure might not have ended. Therefore, in the name of a faster solution, perhaps not the best, it is better to accept it now, rather than to hope for a perfect solution that might not have come true so quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u138	Thank you very much. Senator Mammy? No. Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. The first vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments, and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on the motion of Senators Jan Rulewski and Robert Mamytkow, supported by the committee, to adopt the bill without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 70 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 23]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the law on the recognition of invalid judgments handed down against persons being repressed for the purpose of the independent existence of the Polish State. We return to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Polish Institute of International Affairs. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 1298 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 70 Senators voted, 58 votes against, 11 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 24]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Polish Institute of International Affairs. We return to the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the United States of America on cooperation in the field of border security and immigration, signed in Washington on 16 August 2019. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions have presented single-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; these are Senate prints Nos 1292 A and 1292 B. We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 71 senators voted, 70 for, 1 against. [[Voting No 25]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the United States of America on cooperation in the field of border security and immigration, signed in Washington on 16 August 2019. We are back to discussing the 20th agenda item: the report of the National Radio and Television Council on its activities in 2018 together with information about the basic problems of radio and television in 2018. I would like to remind you that, after the second reading of the draft resolution, the Senate sent the draft to the Committee on Culture and Media in order to respond to the proposals submitted in the course of the discussion and to prepare an additional report on the subject so that the third reading of the draft resolution could be adopted at that meeting; it is in print No 1192 X. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Czesław Ryszka, to submit an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u139	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Culture and Media at today's meeting has negatively assessed the proposal to reject the report and asks for this report to be adopted.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u140	Thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicant and the other Senator rapporteur still want to speak? In the course of the discussion, you submitted proposals to Senator Bogdan Borusewicz, Marshal, and Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz. Thank you very much. I must also say that the rapporteur of the cultural committee was Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. No? Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Thank you very much, senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to rapporteurs and applicants in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of you senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you. We therefore proceed with the vote on the report of the National Radio and Television Council. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the amendment to the draft resolution - print No 1192 X - and then, if this request is rejected, on the draft resolution proposed by the committee, contained in print No 1192 S. We proceed to the vote on the amendment tabled by Senators Bogdan Borusewicz and Jerzy Fedorowicz to draft resolution No 1192 X. The amendment aims to reject the report of the National Radio and Television Council from its activities in 2018. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. There were 69 senators voted, 11 for, 57 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 26]] We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution presented by the Committee on Culture and Media in print No 1192 S. The Commission proposes that the report be adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 70 Senators voted, 56 votes against, 13 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 27]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the report of the National Radio and Television Council. We would like to return to the 21st agenda: Information on the activities of the National Media Council in 2018. I would like to remind you that, after the second reading of the draft resolution, the Senate sent the draft to the Committee on Culture and Media in order to respond to the proposals submitted in the course of the discussion and to prepare an additional report on the subject so that the third reading of the draft resolution could be adopted at that meeting; it is in print No 1136 X. I would again ask Senator Czesław Ryszka to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u141	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Culture and Media at today's meeting negatively assessed the request to reject information on the activities of the National Media Council and requested that this information be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-09-26-senat-85-2.u142	Thank you very much. Do the Senator and the other Senator rapporteur still want to speak? In the course of the discussion, you submitted a request to Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz, and the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media was Senator Alexander Sweed. No? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Is anybody... No? No, no one's checking in, no one's seen or heard any calls. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteurs and the applicant in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to make such inquiries? No. In that case, we shall proceed to the vote on information on the activities of the National Media Council. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the amendment to the draft resolution - print No 1136 X - and then, if this request is rejected, on the draft resolution proposed by the committee, contained in print No 1136 S. We proceed with the vote on the amendment tabled by Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz to draft resolution 1136 X. The amendment aims to reject the information of the National Media Council about its activities in 2018. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? And I'm asking you to give me the results. 69 senators voted, 12 for, 56 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 28]] We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution presented by the Committee on Culture and Media in print No 1136 S. The Commission requests the adoption of information. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. The votes were 66 senators, 53 votes against, 12 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 29]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on information on the activities of the National Media Council. I hereby declare the recess until 17 October, of course this year, until 12 noon. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 20 minutes 26]]
