ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Resume session. I would like to call Members Waldemar Buda, Krystian Jarubas, Marta Kubiak and Arkadiusz Marchewka to the secretaries of today's proceedings. The first part of the session will be Mr Krystian Jarubas and Mr Arkadiusz Carrot. The minutes and the list of speakers will be led by Members Waldemar Buda and Krystian Jarubas. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u2	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 10.30, - Health-- hour. 10.30, - Legal notice - hour. 11, - Justice and Human Rights together with the Committee on Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - hour 11.30. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Road Safety - hour 9, - Parliamentary Group for: Estimates of Poland's Compensation for Damages in the Second World War - hours. 10. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u3	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary. The competent committees have submitted a report on the government draft law amending the Act on Energy Consumption Information by Energy-using Products and on the control of the implementation of the programme for marking office equipment and certain other laws, print No 3369. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Marshal of the Sejm, decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that the Sejm should listen to five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in the discussion on this item. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. We begin by asking the members of the club Law and Justice on the implementation of the European Parliament and Council Regulation on the protection of the environment against invasive alien species. The question is addressed to the Minister of Environment and will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment Mr Sławomir Mazurek. The first question is asked by Mr Jarosław Gonciusz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u4	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Minister! Invasive alien species include plants and animals that have settled in areas outside their natural reach. In Poland, such species include, among others, Canadian oil, Sachalinian roughy or rdestowiec. Among the invasive fauna in our country are the raccoons from the Far East, first brought to the European part of the former Soviet Union, which quickly acclimatised with our neighbours and then with us. These and other species should be mentioned because the European Commission requires several European Union countries to speed up the implementation of the European Union regulation on invasive alien species. Poland is also among these countries. In my question, I would like to ask you to answer the question at which stage the Ministry is involved in implementing this regulation, and I would also ask you to clarify in which voivodships we have the greatest contact with invasive alien species. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u5	Thank you. And I invite the Minister to answer his question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u6	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, As far as Poland is concerned, the whole country, the entire territory of our country is at risk of spreading invasive alien species. That is why we are working to strengthen the current system that we have in Poland, countering this or monitoring alien species. The draft law is now after the meeting of the Joint Government and Territorial Self-Government Commission, which is already after this stage, where the Digitalisation Committee has also expressed itself. Since the project includes the creation of a database on invasive alien species in Poland, we try to base our activities on knowledge, on bases that enable us to manage these risks more efficiently. The project also includes activities and cooperation with local authorities. As for the species you mentioned... I was not accidentally talking about local governments because the Joint Committee of Government and Territorial Government expressed a positive binding opinion on this project. So we're pretty advanced when it comes to this solution. Those species you said you were talking about, i.e. Canadian ingot, Sachalin redestowiec, prosciutto and raccoon raccoon... We could say that the raccoon seems to be almost native to us by now. Of course, that is not true, because he began to appear in Poland in the 1960s and settled with us. Similarly, Canadian inflow is common in Poland and is also an alien species. It's all over the country, but there's thickening and thickening. On the basis of the inventory, we can conclude that in northern, western, south-western and south-eastern Poland are the largest aggregates of Canadian gold. Another plant here mentioned is the Sachalin rdestin. It is one of three redosters found in Poland. The largest aggregates are in the south-western and northern parts of the country. The species is distributed throughout Poland. Prostatitis occurs in dispersal. The largest aggregates are located in the south and southwest of the country. Numerous populations are also found within the Kampinos Forest and the Białowieża Forest, as well as around Poznań. As far as the raccoon is concerned, as I mentioned, it is a domesticated species that exists throughout the country. Genetic research and inventory results indicate that this species colonized Poland on the basis of natural expansion and occupies habitats such as forests, river valleys, wetlands and environments changed by man. It is also worth noting that so far we have not done a full inventory of these species despite the current system. In this respect, the Directorate-General for Environment is very active under the direction of the Minister of Sweden-Lewandowski. Rules are being developed to control the fight against invasive alien species with pilot activities and education, because education is also a very important element and lack of knowledge is conducive to the invasion of these species. As part of the project, beyond the database, the project also carries out an analysis of all routes for the spread of invasive alien species, identifying priority routes and action plans. The point is that some species have arrived, for example. on ships, some species by other means, so all these roads must be analysed. It is also about carrying out studies on methods of control or control of the most invasive alien species. We want this to include at least 10 species that posed a threat to native nature, and often also to the economy and human health. Here I will mention dangerous for people, already fought today, the famous borscht of Sosnowski. We hand over tens of millions of zlotys to stop this threat, which was supposed to be such a great salvation, animal feed, and today is actually a great risk. There are activities to reduce the prevalence of this species. As part of this programme, we also want to test the rules for control of the control of invasive species. We also want to do It's a pilot's way. As far as these key actions are concerned, as I said, we are pleased with this positive opinion of the local government, because it is the local government, which is as close as possible to these problems, that will be the key element. At the same time, as the Ministry of the Environment, we will support it as we can.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u7	Thank you. And the additional question will be asked by Mr Andrzej Gawron. Stay here, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u8	Dear Marshal! Minister! You were very specific about these species. Probably the most famous ones are Sosnowski's borscht and the raccoons. But you also mentioned the planned cooperation with the local government. What would this cooperation be? Is there any detailed information you could give us? I would also ask for information as to whether the new regulations that will eventually be adopted will impose some obligations on private persons, i.e. property owners, on whom, for example. such species could appear. Will there then be an obligation for private individuals to inform, or only by institutions, bodies that will probably have responsibilities in this regard? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u9	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u10	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! As far as cooperation with the local government is concerned, as I said, it is crucial because the local government is closest to these problems. And from the Ministry of Environment... These are, of course, very expensive processes, which is why the Minister, in cooperation with the regional environmental funds, has taken action. Already today funds are being allocated, which will additionally oblige voivodship funds to establish special programmes in this area. The idea is for local governments to have the means to take action in this area. Cooperation with regional environmental directors, who are the eyes of Polish nature conservation in the regions, is also crucial. The aim is to ensure that, in cooperation with the General Environment Director, local authorities also use these data, knowledge resources, so that they are equipped with all these necessary elements, including educational packages, so as to reach specific groups. I'm sure those responsibilities will also fall on those who work, so to speak, in this area of alien species, are in contact with them. As far as private individuals who manage such species are concerned, they will have to fulfil their obligations, carry out specific reporting and protection activities for such animals located in the country. Of course, we are talking about species that we are most familiar with and most often seen, but we are dealing very often with species that are not so common and knowledge about them does not need to be universal. It's about cancer. As far as the cancers are concerned, we have several species. If it's also about the reddish turtles... So knowledge is needed to act cautiously, but at the same time to protect our native biodiversity. Poland belongs to those countries which have a very high level of biodiversity in their native species, hence this need to protect native species and cooperate to maintain this symmetry and to keep these species for future generations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u11	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked about the purchase of Leonardo Helicopters AW101 Merlin helicopters. The question is addressed to the Minister of National Defence. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Skurkiewicz will be responsible and will be asked by Members of the Civic Platform - the Civic Coalition by Mrs Joanna Mucha and Mrs Magdalena Ewa Marek. Mrs Joanna Mucha is about to begin. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u12	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The Ministry of National Defence informed a few days ago about the conclusion of an offset agreement for the purchase of Leonardo Helicopters AW101 Merlin helicopters for the Navy. For the last 3 years, the MON has convinced the public that the agreement for the purchase of 50 helicopters from Airbus Helicopters has been waived to direct orders to helicopter companies in Poland, including Świdnik Air Stations. I'm not gonna stand by the government, reminding you of the next dates when the helicopters were to be ordered; I'm not gonna remind you of these visits, among others. in Świdnik, about photos by Prime Minister Szydło and Mr Macierewicz, but in recent days PiS Members in Lublin announced the so-called. A firecracker for Świdnik, which turned out to be a wet drip. This agreement, which is to be a great achievement of the PiS government, an achievement for Świdnik, a contract on AW101 helicopters, is a contract on helicopters, which are produced in the vast majority outside Poland, Minister. In addition, the most important and most valuable parts included in the contract, such as avionics, engines or weapons devices, are parts produced outside Poland. We get information from official communications that only 20% of production will take place in Świdnik. What a great success for Świdnik? In this connection, we ask the question: What will the benefits of this contract be for the Polish industry, especially for the aircraft companies in Świdnik? What part of production will actually take place in Świdnik? According to the disclosed provisions of the contract repair and maintenance of these helicopters are located in WZL No.1 in Łódź, which means that as a distributor Świdnik will not even service them. So we ask: Why do only bets in Świdnik apply tendering procedures and mandatory offsets, while other orders are placed without tenders and mandatory offsets? Let me just mention that most of the military equipment currently ordered in the U.S. [[♪ The bell ♪]] is not linked to any offset or investment in the Polish defence industry. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u13	Thank you. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Skurkiewicz will answer this question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u14	Mrs. Marshal! Membership! What today is a hangover for the Civic Platform, as Mrs Fly said, for Świdnik, for the Navy and for the Air Force is particularly important. But I'll explain a few things. Ladies and gentlemen! The Treasury represented by the Minister of National Defence in order to protect the fundamental interests of State security concluded an offset agreement, which gives the possibility to establish the potential for maintenance and maintenance of the AW101 Merlin helicopter in the company of WZL State Treasury No. 1 and the Gdańsk University of Technology. That's nine offset liabilities for nearly PLN 400 million. The deadline for implementation is 10 years. These offset liabilities will be possible, inter alia. the following actions. In Area A: creation of a licensed helicopter support centre for the management, management and coordination of maintenance, maintenance and repair of ZOP/CAR helicopters equipped with an interactive electronic technical publication and ensuring the continuation of technical assistance by offset agents until the end of the offset contract, i.e. for a period of 10 years. In Area B: conducting technical operations at level 0 and I by carrying out in particular preparatory, preliminary, pre-flight, take-off and post-flight operations, as well as dismantling, assembly and checking systems, installations and systems of the AW101 Merlin helicopter. In Area C: performing technical operations up to level D of the helicopter acoustic system, performing technical operations up to level D of the signalling system, performing technical operations up to level D of the radio-hydro-acoustic drift system, acquiring technology and know-how for removing and applying painting coatings of AW101 Merlin helicopter, acquiring technology and know-how for balancing AW101 Merlin helicopter by native industry. All nine specifications for offset liabilities were accepted by the offset provider, and by the offset recipients. Ladies and gentlemen! The offset agreement was signed last Monday. On Tuesday, the offset agreement was approved by the Council of Ministers. The agreement for the purchase of AW101 Merlin helicopters will be signed, as presented by the Minister of Defence Mariusz Błaszczak, by the end of April 2019. But I will give you a few more information, because the Member said that nothing so extraordinary nor Świdnik, nor the native defence industry, will have any of this. From the information obtained from Leonardo regarding the benefits for PZL-Świdnik, it appears that PZL-Świdnik produces many structural teams for AW101 helicopter. These include: engine and gearing nozzles, ceiling plate, part of the pilot cabin, nasal septum, nasal septum, avionics compartments with semicircles and doors on the left and right side, instrument panel board, central and lateral desktop consoles, rear hull and optional ramp. In the global economy, division of works and their specialisation are normal, and PZL-Świdnik is becoming the main producer of structural teams for all AW class helicopters, expanding the scope and quantity of the produced assortment of these structures each year. PZL-Świdnik is the main contractor of the contract and is responsible for the whole process of its implementation. To this end, an integrated team is set up, which will expand its competence in managing such a large, strategically important and international project. The scope of these works and the production of teams for ordered AW101 helicopters form a significant part of the value of the entire contract. PZL-Świdnik will also take over from Leonardo competence in the design of medical and rescue equipment mounting systems and interior upholstery AW101 and their production in Świdnik. This will allow for a quick response to changing customer requirements in the future. An integral part of the contract is the offset agreement, within which a large part of the competence, especially the maintenance, will be transferred to Polish economic operators, especially to WZL-1, where the AW101 helicopter service centre will be established. This also involves the transfer of knowledge and the creation of new jobs in national entities. PZL-Świdnik will be a leading player and will carry out after-sales service for decades, which is a significant added value and will bring tangible benefits at national level. The newly acquired production and service competence will also increase the procurement of components and services performed by other customers of the AW101 helicopter, resulting in further work orders carried out in national entities. PZL-Świdnik is the only Polish manufacturer of helicopters and the largest exporter of Polish helicopters, whose annual revenue exceeds PLN 1 billion. There's about 3,000 employees there. employees and it involves over 1300 suppliers, including about 900 Polish companies. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u15	The additional question will be asked by Magdalena Ewa Marek, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u16	Dear Marshal! Minister! There were big promises. You promised as a government that you would place military orders, including helicopter orders, in the Polish industry, that it would benefit companies producing in Poland. From the official information provided by the Ministry, Minister, we learn from the interpellation that there is a contract for four helicopters for the Navy, model AW101, concluded with the Leonardo Group, but we know that most will be produced abroad. I'm asking you what part it's gonna be, because the minister said it's gonna be a big part of the value. What? We have contact with Świdnik, we know that Świdnik's plants produce floors for pilot cabins, ceiling panels, ramps and small components, so it is to promises previously made by the government that are nothing. Of course, the contract is attractive, but not for Świdnik, but for the Leonardo Group. I would therefore like to ask, Minister, if these helicopters could not be manufactured in Świdnik, [[♪ The bell ♪]] and if not, have attempts been made to increase the scope and share of production so that larger parts of the helicopter are produced in Świdnik. Minister, I would also like to know if this contract will affect the future, whether the scope of production of this type of model in Świdnik will be feasible in the future. I also want to ask you about revenue. What will the revenues of this contract look like? What percentage will this agreement represent in Świdnik's total income, and how will this affect employment? Please answer me. If the Minister is unable to answer, I would like to obtain all these written answers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u17	Minister Wojciech Skurkiewicz will answer these questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u18	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Just now, when presenting issues concerning the contract and benefits for PZL-Świdnik, I have identified areas that are related to production in Świdnik, but also be aware that today PZL-Świdnik or this plant in Poland is included in the entire system of supply and production of AW101 Merlin helicopter. This is particularly important. Please also be aware that this type of helicopter for marine operations, fighting submarines, marine rescue is a specific type. They're probably one of the most expensive helicopters in the world. These are produced on a yearly basis only a dozen pieces - maximum. So today it is our order, which is realized, is especially important. Thanks to this order we also create certain competences in relation to Świdnik. If you wish, I can repeat those points we just mentioned. [[What's the percentage?]] Ladies and gentlemen! As far as production is concerned, we will talk at the time of signing the contract. As I informed you, the Minister of Defence Mariusz Błaszczak said, the helicopter delivery contract will be signed by the end of April. Today we are after offset negotiations. This offset agreement was accepted by the Council of Ministers. Today, all that remains is to sign the relevant agreement. At the time of signing the relevant contract, and once again: this will be done by the end of April, all details of the delivery, orders and production of AW101 Merlin helicopter will be known for the purposes of the Polish army. That's all I have to say about it. [[Attempts to increase participation?]] If the ladies aren't satisfied with the speech from the Ministry of National Defence... [[The workers of Świdnik are not satisfied.]] ...the remaining information will be provided in writing and we will address your doubts. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Lying.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u19	Thank you. Let's move on to the next question. This is a question about the liquidation of the Krupiński Coal Mine, addressed to the Minister of Energy, and the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski will answer. The question will be asked by Mr Jarosław Sachajko, the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u20	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! In light of the tender announced by the Company for the reconstruction of the mines for the physical destruction of the most expensive technical infrastructure of the Krupiński mine, worth about PLN 4 billion, i.e. ventilation shafts, mining shafts and for the congress of people, bearing in mind the economic interest resulting from the need to extract strategic coal deposits on the European Union market, please explain the possibilities and rules of handing over the mine to the citizens' committee so that these natural goods remain in Polish hands. I would like to point out that the business plan held by the citizens' committee shows that the re-launch of mining in this mine would generate about PLN 1 billion of net profit over a period of 10 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u21	I ask Minister Grzegorz Tobiszowski to answer this question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u22	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Speaker! E.g. after receiving information about your question, but also as a result of the fact that we had learned earlier that the environment that had been announced to the Civil Committee had been established, we requested that we be provided with a business plan or, if any, a framework investment plan. Why? Because when Krupiński was transferred to the Company for Restructuring of Mine, we prepared or Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, because on these materials we based, prepared many analytical materials, as well as discussed the fate of Krupiński. Let me just remind you that over the years 2007 to 2015 the loss on this mine was 8200 million. And at the time when Jastrzębska Spółka was in a situation of almost bankruptcy, we talked with financial institutions, with institutions that were financially involved and actually applied for the bankruptcy of Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, and led to the signing of the agreement in August 2016, as a result of which Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa was to be subject to the restructuring process. One of the conditions was that the assets in the form of Krupinski, which we cannot demonstrate in the form of analytical materials, must be transferred to the Company for Restructuring of Mines. There was also an analysis of the coking coal deposit there. Currently another mine of Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa already has part of the concession, one can get to it and avoid laying a difficult access to this deposit from the Krupinski excavation area. So, there is an attempt here to use what is now in the Krupinski deposit. On the other hand, after transferring the mine to SRK, we started a rather important and, I think, big project related to the development of the mines, among others. through the construction of an energy warehouse - here an application has been submitted to the European Commission, it is about measures under the support programme for the mining sites - the construction of a pumped power plant, the extension of a production and renovation hall complex, where a complex of halls with production, storage and office functions will be built. The next investment is an innovation centre: companies and operators of economic life in the municipality of Suszec will benefit from this centre and locate their start-ups there. The European centre for small energy, low emissions is building a pre-incubation centre for business. The project shall include the development of actions aimed at improving technologies for the extraction and processing of methane from renewable sources. Investments related to renewable energy sources are also being designed to use this space for modern technologies. For Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa wants to operate until 2030 as a company which will be of its raw materials, among others. with methane, generate energy to reduce operating costs. We asked the committee to inform us of its plan so that we could make responsible decisions. We received information, the committee telephonically informed us that it had something like an investment teaser, so some assumptions, and it does not necessarily want us to disclose such information, because this teaser is intended to gain an investor for the mine, they wanted to preserve the authorship of this idea. It is difficult for us to make precise reference to the assumptions of the business plan and to note the documentation concerning these high values. There was talk of generating 1 billion net profit. Earlier, values were higher. But believe me, at that time, we have tried and are now trying to make every effort to make responsible decisions. So far, we don't have the right materials to refer to what the idea of restarting the Krupiński mine looks like. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u23	Thank you. The additional question is also asked by Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz.15 You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u24	Thank you. With all due respect, Minister, you haven't answered my question at all. You presented a fantastic idea of how to plow the area around the Krupiński mine. I asked about the possibilities and rules of handing over the mine to the Krupinski civic committee. I wanted to ask you why you do not even want to try such an innovative approach to investing in natural goods by Polish citizens. Thousands of people want to organize themselves and invest in Polish natural resources, so why bother them and not let them? Is it possible to meet with the Minister, experts from the Minister during the meeting of the parliamentary team on the Krupiński mine, to present a business plan and public discussion on this civic idea for the use of natural goods by Poles? It shouldn't be about trying to destroy them or handing them over to strangers. Thank you. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u25	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u26	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! I ask you not to use the expression "passing into foreign hands." We've been through this before. Please, sir... Because it's not true. [[I'm asking you to answer the question.]] I'm answering. I invite you, as well as the widely understood public opinion, to familiarise yourself with the civil committee's business plan. Believe me... Just indicate the place - it can be in Warsaw, Szczecin, Gdansk and Katowice - if only the committee presented a business plan... I would like to ask you, sir, as the initiator, to see to it that you do so. I understand we all know what a business plan means and what it's supposed to mean. I'd like the committee to publicly present the business plan. Let me put it this way: no one in public office can pass on the password to private individuals. [[Of course.]] Although there are people with Polish citizenship in the committee, it would be a far-reaching irresponsible decision even if the mine ends its operation and secures the area so as not to harm the environment, it requires many treatments. Therefore, I believe that if there is someone who would like to invest, it should present sources of funding and an idea of what to do for the company to generate profits. Otherwise, we have a problem with the very concept of the operation of business, which is coal mining. Mr. Speaker! Here's the other thing. This is public aid which has been notified by the European Commission. Investors who want to invest funds must be aware that this assistance will have to be reimbursed. Today, its size is 270 million and if the investor has such financial resources, we are ready to sit down and talk. I encourage other individual investors, whether this is a committee or investors with Polish capital, to invest in the mining sector, in industry. I think this is a very important time for the reindustrialization of the Polish economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u27	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u28	Thank you. Let's move on to the next question. This will be a question about the use of administrative staff and service vehicles to promote the new so-called. Fridays Kaczyński in the campaign for the European Parliament. The question is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers and will be answered under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers, the Deputy Secretary of State of the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Paweł Szrot. The first question at this point will be asked by Mrs Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club, please. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u29	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! On 23 February, the President of the party Jarosław Kaczyński spoke about the start of the election campaign and the new government program The assumptions of this program are consistent with the PiS electoral programme, they are only dressed in slightly different words. Is this a way to fund campaigns with government money? The promotion of the "New Five' programme is financed by government money, namely the Prime Minister's law firm and ministries. The total amount is PLN 1.5 million. According to Art. 108 The electoral code is forbidden to conduct electoral agitation in the area, among others. government administrations and local government administrations. This recipe is notoriously broken by the PiS, for which I personally have evidence in the form of my own photos. I saw tables and cars in Słupsk next to the city's office building with an ad print of the New Friday. I can, of course, give you these pictures. I also know that there have been many cases of agitation in local government offices. Specifically, Mrs Iwona Arent, who is a candidate for the European Parliament, had a meeting at the Barciana Municipal Office on 23 March, Mr Wojciech Kossakowski, in the District Starostwa in Olecek on 29 March, and Mrs Beata Mazurek on 31 March. These are specific meetings, of course, from these meetings are photographs. It's a crossover. I'd like to know, Minister, [[♪ The bell ♪]] How can this be explained and what consequences you intend to draw? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u30	I ask you, Minister, to answer this question. The Deputy Secretary of State of the President of the Council of Ministers Paweł Szrot will answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u31	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and To answer the questions that Members of the Modern Parliamentary Club have asked, I would like to point out the following circumstances. One of the government's tasks is to conduct internal state policy. This policy includes, among other things, the implementation of this policy. inform the public about the programmes implemented by the Council of Ministers, including public consultation of programmes and information on the principles of their operation. I would remind you that these are government programmes, prepared by the government, socially consulted by the government, adopted by the government and subsequently presented by the government to the parliament. I would also like to remind you that some of these programs, as an example, can indicate the modification of the 500+ programme, simply assume a certain social interaction. It's about filling in the applications. The current information is essential here and serves primarily the citizens who will benefit from these programmes. All the projects contained in the New Five are implemented by the government, so the government has the right and obligation to inform the public about them. It is difficult to imagine a situation in which the Council of Ministers does not perform one of its tasks, i.e. information on its solutions. This is not the first time the process of informing about the solutions introduced is not being implemented. Similar tasks have been carried out in the past by previous governments. This includes costly information campaigns of the PO-PSL coalition government conducted during the hot political season, in 2014 and 2015. We remember these campaigns. We remember that then, actually, the election campaign lasted all the time. The government also then informed about its actions and the cost of these activities was much higher. In the process of informing about government solutions introduced, there were among others. an information campaign aimed at convincing the financial market about the well-being of the Polish finance economy, informing about obtaining a flexible credit line and interventions to stabilise the Polish currency, as said by Prime Minister Donald Tusk at the time. As for the situations that you have asked to point out - the situation in Słupsk and the situation in Warmia and Mazury, because these meetings you have been talking about were, it seems, limited to one voivodeship. As far as Słupsk is concerned, I would like to remind you of the statement that Mr Dariusz Drelich gave to the Pomeranian voivode. In his statement he stated: In connection with the information campaign of the new social programmes run by the Polish government, I inform you that there has been an overinterpretation of my letter concerning the above mentioned. the matter - of the matter that you have mentioned - and I therefore recommended that information be withdrawn from the vehicles belonging to the integrated administration. There was a misunderstanding, the matter was cleared up and cut off by decisive action. When it comes to meetings...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u32	Are there gonna be consequences?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u33	Wait a minute. May I finish this, Marshal? When it comes to meetings in the Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship, then, Madam, please understand, I am not the subject of this question. Ask the individual candidates you have indicated, the electoral committee that represents them, or the directors of these premises, i.e. the local government in the Warmia-Mazury voivodeship. Member, please accept the explanations.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u34	The additional question will be asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u35	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Well, they made money, so did we. Minister, you represent a government that claims to be raising standards. I cannot fully agree with this, because I remember that the subject of this promotion was the programmes then implemented, while today the facts are in contradiction with your words. I mean, you're promoting something that's not there yet. First of all, there are no laws, second of all, they haven't been basically passed by parliament, they haven't been passed, so it's hard to say that you are promoting something that the government is doing because the government isn't doing it. I therefore have a question: What will the government's financial contribution be to the election campaign of Law and Justice? Maybe I'll ask that question a little differently. What costs will the government incur for advertising purchased in the press, radio and television, on used vehicles, including ITD for some time? What will be the cost of salaries of employees of voivodship offices, ZUS and other administration who campaign for Law and Justice during working hours? [[♪ The bell ♪]] How many police cars are used in this campaign because such reports have also appeared in the media area? How much will it cost to flyers and banners used in this campaign? To sum up, I would ask the Minister to answer that question. If the Minister is not prepared, please reply in writing: What will be the government's contribution to the election campaign of Law and Justice, which is the cost of all the things I have said? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u36	I ask you, Minister, to answer the additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u37	Mr. Speaker! I can answer the first part of your question in this way: The government is continuing its activities from the moment of the resignation. You can always charge that the perspective of these actions is some sort of election result, that's obvious. The government operates in a democratic political system and the accident of this system is the primary and subsequent electoral result, here you can always make such allegations. As far as draft laws are concerned, let me remind you, the government prepared them, presented them to the government. Some have already presented to Parliament, others have already prepared a timetable for further action. The government has a duty not only to implement these laws, but also to prepare them, inform the public about their content, consultation and those obligations. Mr. Speaker! You asked about the cost of the information campaign. They are not secret, all costs will be public. We will, of course, give this reply in writing, Mr President. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u38	Thank you very much. The next item is asked by Mr Robert Telus and Mr Piotr Polak, Mr Law and Justice - a question on the conclusion by the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways of the agreement for the development of a programming concept for the construction of the third lane on the A2 motorway between Łódź and Warsaw. The question is addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure and the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure will answer Mr Rafał Weber.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u39	Dear Marshal! Minister! Mr. and Mrs. Parliamentarians! If someone ever drove the A2 motorway between Łódź and Warsaw, he knows what a serious problem this is in our Polish transport, he knows how important it is to build another highway lane to unload this traffic and make it easier to get to Warsaw from this part of Poland. The current government has dealt with this subject. Well, it's a shame that when this highway was built earlier, it wasn't thought of unloading it to build it right away. The inhabitants of Łódź, not only Łódź, but also Poznań, ask, at what stage are the works, what is the schedule of these works and when we can expect that the situation on this highway, important for the whole of Poland, but I think that not only for Poland, will be unloaded. When will it be possible to cross this section of the A2 motorway between Łódź and Warsaw in a normal way to reach the capital city of Poland without traffic jams and in normal time? Therefore, Minister, please answer, not only to us, because it is not just about us parliamentarians, but about society, Poles, at what stage is the timetable for this work. When can we expect to build a third lane and unload this cork? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u40	Thank you. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure will answer Mr Rafał Weber. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u41	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank the Members for this question. It is very important because it shows that the Government of Law and Justice is taking comprehensive action in the area of road infrastructure, because on the one hand we are already carrying out the tasks defined in the national road construction programme, and on the other hand, as shown by the example of the A2 motorway, we are intensively preparing the tasks that will be carried out in the future financial perspective. Ladies and gentlemen! To begin with, I might talk about the reasons that led to the decision to proceed to prepare this task, because above all, considering this decision to prepare for any task, account should be taken of the traffic intensity of vehicles. That is what the Member has stressed. And the traffic on the A2 motorway between Warsaw and Łódź is already approaching the limits for the current section, and in the coming years further gradual growth is expected. All those who use this route can see the movement that is currently occurring on it. And details. The general traffic measurement, which was carried out in 2015, showed that the traffic is very high on individual sections of the A2 motorway between Łódź and Warsaw. On the Łódź North - Viskitki section the intensity was about 40,000. vehicles daily, on the section Wiskitka - Grodzisk Mazowiecki - already 45 thousand. vehicles daily, and between Grodzisk Mazowiecki and Pruszkow - already 57 thousand. vehicles daily and at the entrance to Warsaw between Pruszkow and Konotopa - up to 75 thousand. vehicles daily. Moreover, after 2 years carried out in 2017, the point measurement of traffic between Wiskitki and Grodzisk Mazowiecki showed an increase of 13 thousand. vehicles, i.e. within 2 years by 13 thousand. the vehicles were moving this section more every day. The level of traffic itself justifies the decision to extend this section and extend it by an additional lane in each direction. It should also be mentioned that the decision to prepare for the expansion of the A2 motorway was also influenced by the decision to build the Central Communication Port, which in the vicinity of Baranów, i.e. between Warsaw and Łódź, will be built within a short distance of the A2 motorway. Maybe now I'll talk about the investment itself. The extension of the A2 motorway from Łódź to Warsaw will consist of the construction of the third lane of traffic from the Łódź North junction to the Pruszków junction, and on the section of the Pruszków junction - the Konotop junction of the fourth lane of traffic. The construction will be carried out on the internal sides of both A2 motorway roads using the wide section belt provided for during the construction of the motorway for future expansion. This investment will allow you to adapt the technical parameters of the A2 motorway to the existing and forecast traffic volume. It will ensure increased capacity and improved road connection between Warsaw and Łódź. The additional lane will increase liquidity and thus improve road safety. I will now refer to the agreements that have been signed. The contractor will prepare the necessary documentation, a functional-use programme and obtain the final environmental decision, which will allow the general director to conduct the tender in which the contractor will be selected in the formula design and build. This was due to the fact that on 6 December 2018 investment programmes for tasks under the name of the Minister of Infrastructure were agreed by the Minister of Infrastructure, and here two programs: Expansion of the A2 motorway on the section of Łódź North - without a junction - border of Łódź and Mazowieckie voivodships by an additional lane of traffic and Expansion of the A2 motorway on the section of the border of Łódź and Mazowieckie voivodships - Konotop node - without a node - by additional lanes of traffic. Importantly, it is worth noting that the design of the existing motorway predicted that in the future it would be necessary to build another lane at the site of the current section lane, so the existing engineering facilities and other infrastructure were already adapted to this solution during the construction process. During the construction, there will be additional provision for a place under the future node in the vicinity of Baranów to connect the motorway to the future Central Communication Port. Both signed contracts mean that the preparatory work is currently carried out for the entire section of Warsaw - Łódź with a length of 88 km. The contract for the section in Łódź Voivodship was concluded on 11 February. with the company Transprojekt Gdański. The value of the contract is almost 2500 thousand. zł. The contract for the section in the Mazowieckie voivodship was signed on 28 March this year. also with Transprojekt Gdański. The value of the contract is 3,400 thousand. zł, i.e. in total the development of documentation will cost almost PLN 6 million. According to the current timetable, environmental decisions should be obtained within 1.5 years. Once the tender has been announced and decided, it will be possible to proceed with the project work and then start construction work. Of course, it is necessary to secure the resources for this investment in advance. We anticipate this task in the future financial perspective. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u42	The additional question will be asked by Mr Piotr Polak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u43	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are all waiting for this third lane on the A2 motorway towards Łódź, because we often drive this highway. Indeed, as the Minister said, the intensity of traffic on individual sections is increasing and this need is urgent. I would like to ask, Minister, because the plan to expand the A2 motorway provides - such information I found on the Internet - not only an extension of the third lane, but also an analysis of the technical condition already existing two lanes and perhaps, because it will be linked to this analysis, on those two lanes that are already there, the location of new overlays, because these overlays, which are now, especially on one lane, [[♪ The bell ♪]] They're not what they're supposed to be. If, in view of the fact that when this motorway was created in 2011, there were many problems in 2012, it turns out that this technical state is not what it should be, the Ministry or the General Directorate will also try on such a task and, as far as what was done 7 years ago, I do not know, under some guarantee, is it still possible to enforce from the contractor of this motorway repair or to put a better quality overlay on these already existing two lanes of traffic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u44	Thank you very much. Please, Minister, answer the additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u45	Thank you very much. Of course, I will answer this question, but using the fact that I would like to add one more question to the general public as regards the section of the A2 motorway Warsaw - Łódź, I would like to tell you that apart from the extension of the A2 motorway on this section we also provide for the elimination of the toll collection point, [[Applause]] which currently causes liquidity disruptions. The cancellation of the toll collection point has already started on 13 March 2019 with regard to basic work to ensure the current flow of traffic. Once the Pruszków toll collection point has been wound up, capacity and traffic flow will be obtained while maintaining full road safety standards. The demolition works are carried out in the central part of the PPO and do not cause additional obstacles to the movement, which is carried out by two extreme lanes on both sides of the square. It's also the kind of information that, I think, it's worth getting to all the drivers who are going to move this section of the A2 motorway. After the horizontal marking has been carried out and the driver's barriers are set, two lanes of two lanes in each direction will be at their disposal. The completion of the works is scheduled for 30 June of this year. Currently, the speed in this section is limited to 40 km for obvious reasons, i.e. safety. On the other hand, with regard to the surface quality of these sections already built, it is clear that the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways, as the national road manager, carries out such analyses and that when there is a need to improve such surfaces, such tasks are carried out. I, of course, will also be on the hot line with Director Żuchowski in a moment to ask what the question is about this range on the A2 motorway on the Łódź-Warsaw section. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u46	Thank you. We move on to the next question which will be asked about the delay in the implementation of the national road construction programme and the absence of a tender for the bypass of Zawiercie and Poręba. The question is addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure and the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure will answer Mr Rafał Weber. The first question at this point will be asked by Mrs Anna Nemś, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u47	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! The programme of construction of national roads and motorways is such a road backbone, infrastructure of the country. Minister Adamczyk said he would build more roads and cheaper. So? Four years are coming, and spectacular successes cannot be found. It's expensive and it won't be cheaper. Your term of office is running out, so you must be successful. You came up with such a patent: you announce tenders, you drive, you and your colleagues, in Poland, showing this paper success. In these tenders, cost estimates differ drastically from the tender price. Tenders shall not be settled; they shall be cancelled. And who's to blame? The contractors are guilty, they want too much money. The scale of this phenomenon throughout Poland, ladies and gentlemen, is appalling. According to statistics from the Main Building Supervisory Authority, the number of permits for road investments fell from 7 000. in 2005 to 3.5. Unfortunately, Minister, the tender for the bypass of Poręba and Zawiercie, so important, has not been decided. You missed it by 200 million. Why was only 430 million allocated to this investment when in 2013 the director of the Silesian branch of the Directorate-General talked about the amount of 550 million? Minister Adamczyk was at the harvest festivals last year at the Jurassic in the beautiful Garden, and he so beautifully said that the ring road is being realized in front of our eyes, that the government of Law and Justice keeps its word. So I ask, Minister, even though Minister Adamczyk is not here today, will you keep your word? I invite Minister Adamczyk or you, please come and tell the people of Zawiercie, Poręba and local authorities why they are being run over by thousands of cars. Ladies and gentlemen! Your predecessors built a knot in Siewierz, which was the first part of this ring road. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Today is the time for you to fulfill your promises. Please tell the people of Zawiercie, Poręba: Will you proceed to the construction of this ring road? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u48	The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure will answer this question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u49	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This question, which has been asked, is actually made up of two big, important issues. Firstly, it concerns a programme for the construction of national roads as a whole and, secondly, a specific investment included in it, i.e. the Poręba and Zawiercie bypasses. Allow me to divide the answer into these two stages. With regard to the first part of the question, i.e. the alleged delays in the implementation of the programme, I would definitely like to stress that I cannot agree with this thesis, because this, ladies and gentlemen, is a thesis but a mistake. Currently we are implementing the biggest road programme in history, which is worth up to PLN 135 billion. These are the money which, by decision of the Council of Ministers of 2017, i.e. the Government of Law and Justice, has been provided and secured for specific investment titles. The scale of the investments is huge, and this also requires a huge effort of the entire construction market. The scale of the actions is shown by the hard numbers showing the state of implementation of the programme. Namely, it should be pointed out that 51 sections of realization have already been completed and made available to drivers, with a length of 714 km and a value of nearly 25 billion PLN. In the implementation there are additional 112 sections with a length of nearly 1500 km and a value of more than 55 billion PLN. Further tenders are also being announced at all times. Currently, 12 implementation sections with a length of 193 km and a value of over PLN 7 billion are the subject of the tender. In order to ensure a relatively even distribution of expenditure in the following years and not to cause the market to bear the accumulation of expenditure, we are also preparing further tasks for the announcement of tenders. At present, 61 implementation sections with a length of more than 1 000 are expected for the tender. km and value of more than PLN 47 billion. This is less than 35% of the programme value. Other 65% the value of the programme relates either to completed investments or to pending tender procedures. Nor can I fail to mention EU funds. On the road tasks returned to Poland in the form of refunds of more than PLN 22 billion. It's already over 50% the value of the total allocation available in the financial perspective of 2014.2023. All these figures clearly prove that the programme is being implemented smoothly. Of course, it can be said that there is one or the other investment, the duration of which has been extended. That's what happens, ladies and gentlemen. However, I will admit that this is statistically impossible for the implementation of the programme to amount to PLN 135 billion, with many entities participating in the process all investments started and ended exactly in the original time. Moving on, ladies and gentlemen, to the second point, questions. Within this investment of more than 24 km, three road junctions, two intersections, bridge facilities, including two bridges, 12 overpasses, as well as service and access roads to adjacent areas, environmental protection devices and road drainage elements will be built. The task of building these bypasses was divided into two parts, the section Siewierz - Poręba - Zawiercie and the second section, the city of Zawiercie - Kromolów - Żerkowice. The tender for the implementation of this investment was launched on 6 December 2018, while the opening of the offers took place on 6 December 2018... [[February 22nd.]] ... 22 February 2019 Therefore, Commissioner, it cannot be said that this thesis in question, in one question two thesis, the second thesis in question, that there has been a lack of determination, is true because... [[200 million.]] ...offers that have been submitted are still being analysed. We're in the middle of an analysis. You will admit that after less than 2 months since the opening of the tender, it cannot be concluded that this means that this tender is not settled. And specifically. Eight contractors submitted for the first episode of the offer. The highest bid price is over PLN 600 million, while the lowest is PLN 435 million. The cost estimate of this investment assumed the value of nearly PLN 290 million. As far as the second episode is concerned, seven contractors have submitted offers. The highest price - PLN 288 million, the lowest - PLN 187. So that the discrepancy in the first one and in the latter case is very large. As far as the second episode is concerned, we were going to allocate PLN 142 million. Currently, once again, we are in the process of analysing the feasibility of these tasks and possible conclusion of contracts, taking into account, of course, the limits available under the National Road Construction Programme 2014-2023. Before completion [[♪ The bell ♪]] These analyses it is not possible to indicate or confirm the fact that additional funds are secured. We must, of course, carry out these analyses in a reliable, accurate manner and choose the optimal option. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u50	Thank you. Let's move on to the next question. It will be asked about...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u51	Mrs. Marshal! Could I ask for a written answer to those questions that the Minister has not been able to answer just now? I asked other questions. It's just a request.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u52	Mrs. Marshal! Mrs. Member! I am committed to answering the remaining questions in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u53	The second additional question will be asked by Mr Stanisław Żmijan, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u54	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I would like to congratulate you on taking up office as Secretary of State in the Ministry. I would like to wish you success, but I assure you, this will not be easy in the Ministry under the direction of Minister Adamczyk. Why? I'll try to introduce you. Unfortunately, Minister, the bypass of Zawiercie is not an accident of an unsavory occurrence in the process of implementing the National Road Construction Programme. Through the cost optimization password, Mr Adamczyk, when he took over the resort, put the whole program down. I would like to remind you: when it included the resort, the predecessors, the PO-PSL government left 77 sections of investment with a total length of 900 km at the tender stage, while 78 with a length of 1170 km [[♪ The bell ♪]] under construction. And then, indeed, the Minister rode the country with the Prime Minister and cut the ribbons on those sections that we have announced. After 2 years, Mr Jarosław Kaczyński personally assessed the process of optimization. He said briefly: "It was supposed to be cheaper, it's more expensive." 1 km of the A2 motorway we built on average for an amount of 34 million. And then the minister said it was expensive. And now you're building for 47, 40%. It's more expensive. Short question: Minister - I address Minister Adamczyk - incompetence or omission? Both are very harmful. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u55	Please respond to Mr Rafał Weber's Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u56	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A very concrete answer to this last question: neither incompetence nor abandonment, only total opposition. [[These are facts.]] That is the answer to this question, and there is no other answer, Mr President. Facts. You could say that numbers are facts. I presented them in the first part of my answer. I can say it again, ladies and gentlemen. [[Companies are off-duty, Minister.]] I can repeat how many sections have already been opened, what funds have been spent, at what stage of implementation is the national road and motorway construction programme, the value of the allocation of funds. [[Papers, papers.]] All of this, ladies and gentlemen, has just been handed over by me. I'm not going to repeat myself in this matter. I would just like to add that as far as 2018 is concerned, fresh information has been signed agreements... [[Fresh, isn't it?]] [[After 3 years?]] ...I'm not talking about everything in total, just about one year, about the value of more than PLN 22 billion... [[Because there was nothing there before.]] ...to carry out tasks concerning roads 512 km long. So that, ladies and gentlemen, the thesis, and basically the two thesis contained in the question are false, are inconsistent with reality. I am convinced that I have proved to the High House that this is the case. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u57	We move on to the next question about the future of Zbożowe Zakłady Zbożowe, sp. z o.o. The question is addressed to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development will answer Mr Tadeusz Romanczuk, and the question will be asked by Mrs Beata Mazurek, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u58	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Zamojskie Zakłady Zbożowe is a company with long-standing traditions in the field of grain buying and milling, which is permanently included in the agricultural areas of Zamojszczyna and Roztocza. These plants are located on agricultural grounds. They have developed the reputation of a stable, timely contractor paying for concentrated grain from local farmers, as well as the brand of the final product, which is known and desirable on the local, regional and national markets for Zamość flour. Zamojskie Zakłady Zbożowe invested funds in a new drying plant, expanded and modernised the buying point in Tuczapach, and led to the use of maximum possibilities in the production and sale of goods. Until recently, we have observed media activities carried out by Elewarr regarding the acquisition of Zbożowe Zamojskie Zakłady Zbożowe, which we believe will result in the creation of a new branch of Elewarr in Zamość, which involves the loss of legal personality by Zamojskie Zakłady Zbożowe. There is no economic and financial basis in our assessment for taking over a thriving company such as Zamojskie Zakłady Zbożowe, which had 688 thousand. PLN net profit for the last year, by Elewarr, with a net loss for the last financial year of more than 17 million. In a word, the weaker one wants to absorb the stronger. At the same time, I wanted to tell you that local authorities, such as: Zamość City Council, Tomaszów Lubelski City Council, Zamość County Starostwo Powiatowe, strongly object to possible decisions regarding the inclusion of Zamość Plant in Elewarr. And in view of the information that appears in the media that I have already mentioned, my question is: Is it true that such a decision will be made, or do you withdraw from this decision? I spoke to the minister of the past, and I know that this was the plan. How's it going today? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u59	Thank you. Mr Tadeusz Romanczuk will answer the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u60	Mrs. Marshal and Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Your Marshal presented a beautiful review of the company Zamojskie Zakłady Zbożowe. Indeed, the company is developing beautifully and will develop. In the near future, five times, five times, may increase its activity as a result of the investments undertaken. They will be implemented between 2019 and 2020. Such a concept was and was a conversation, but that does not mean that any decision has been taken. These bets are right to exist, little, I'm going to say here that I'm denouncing all the negative information that came out, as you rightly pointed out, in the media. Once again, I firmly say this, and from this point on, as Secretary of State, I am denouncing it. I will tell you more, this company will soon have even greater influence and greater capacity to carry out its activities and carry out its mission. That's the concept right now. All the information that's come up is false, negative, and I'm denouncing it. I'm dementing them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u61	The additional question at this point will also be asked by Marshal Beata Mazurek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u62	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! One basic thing, my request, however, that you discipline the President of Elewarru, because the information concerning the absorption of Zamojskie Zakłady Zbożowe was mainly dealt with by him. And I understand that if you maintain your decision, and I trust that you do, then the people who work at Zamość Grain Works can be calm about not losing their jobs in the context of what you said, and of course the brand will continue to be kept: Zamość flour. In a word, people can sleep peacefully, farmers, contractors, all those who benefit from Zamość's activities. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u63	Thank you. I ask Minister Tadeusz Romanchuk to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u64	Mrs. Marshal! Indeed, people working in Zamojskie Zakłady Zboże can sleep peacefully. I'm pointing out this information from the Sejm stand, and I've given it to the people who distributed it so that they don't do it again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u65	Thank you very much. We move on to the next question - on the problems related to the operation of medical rescue units in connection with the changes included in the new plan of operation of the State Medical Rescue system and thus the new way of contracting services. The question is addressed to the Minister of Health. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, will answer. The first question will be divided between Mrs Elizabeth Stępień and Alice Chybicki. Let me remind you that in total, time is two minutes. We begin with Mrs Elizabeth Stępień.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u66	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Dear Minister, The stakes of extracurriculars are now the most important topic. They have not been amended since 2011, although they were to be increased since April this year. When will there be an analysis of the actual cost of maintenance of the State Medical Rescue and an increase in the rates of extracurriculars to the level of balancing of the medical entity in order to prevent the collapse of the medical rescue system in Poland? I would like to ask another question as regards the possibility of obtaining external funds, which is now, unfortunately, that emergency services cannot apply for EU funds. And I would like to ask, when will this be possible, as much as possible, to change the rules that would make it possible. Today it is most often done by marshals' offices.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u67	Mrs Alicia Chybick.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u68	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Medical rescue teams are a very important element, if not one of the most important, medical care that directly saves lives. The amendment of the Law of 10 May 2018, which came into force in June, introduced a provision requiring the Head of the Medical Rescue Team to have 5 years of experience in medical or air rescue. Is there sufficient number of medical rescuers with this 5-year work experience to manage rescue teams, but also not to disrupt the training system of new rescue personnel, which also need to acquire these 5 years of experience? It is proposed to reduce the requirements for the number of years of work and to pass work in the SORs to those 5 years. It's not in the bill. How the Ministry intends to complement [[♪ The bell ♪]] A shortage of paramedics with a 5-year internship? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u69	The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, will answer these questions. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u70	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, medical rescue is the most important link in the health system: the quality of work, the availability of benefits, the delivery time largely determines the chances of survival and the current government is fully aware of this. As regards the first question concerning the system of financing of the medical rescue system, I would like to inform you that the level of funding established in 2010 and 2011 for several years has been at the same level at all times, but the medicinal entities that carried out these benefits have generally assessed this level of funding as sufficient. In recent years, expectations have been raised for increasing funding for the medical rescue system, mainly linked to the increase in salaries. I would like to inform you that practically since 2016 there has been an increase in spending on medical rescue. We increase these expenditures successfully year-to-year and between 2016 and 2019 the increase in expenditure amounts to about PLN 300 million. In 2016, the funding amounted to PLN 1 000 852 045, now we have PLN 2 150 320 000, so there is a clear increase in expenditure. Of course, most of these funds are intended to increase salaries. As you know, by means of an agreement with organisations representing the medical rescue community, the increases have been negotiated, which are gradually implemented. At the moment from 1 January medical rescuers receive 120 PLN in the form of a supplement and for this have been fully secured funds. So that employers did not have to bear the consequences of wage increases. In addition, 44 million PLN was transferred this year. These are funds intended for the remaining costs of health care providers. So as you can see, I have a table like this: in the past few years there has been no wage increase, and now there is an increase in wages. Of course, we do not think that this is a sufficient wage increase, we analyse these costs, we ask the authorising officers to present us with specific costs, as, as you know, medical rescue is financed by the state budget. Therefore, we analyse these costs carefully and consider the possibility of successive increases in funds for medical rescue. The second question concerned investments, investments, financing of health investments. Ladies and gentlemen, in the previous financial perspective, in 2007 and 2018 there were opportunities to finance the purchase of ambulances from EU funds. Unfortunately, the previous government, negotiating financial terms and conditions for the new financial perspective for the 2014-2020 period, negotiated funds for medical rescue under the Operational Programme, but these funds could only be used to finance modernisation or the creation of hospital rescue units or the financing of construction, modernisation of landing sites. Unfortunately, we could not use these funds to buy new ambulances. However, the voivodships of these funds, which are transferred from the state budget, continue to purchase ambulances whenever possible. In recent years, several dozen such ambulances have been purchased that operate in the medical emergency system. So, in summing up the questions about financing investments, I would like to stress that the current government is aware that the quality of this rolling stock, which is at the disposal of medical rescue teams, but also the level of remuneration of employees, is a fundamental value that needs to be taken care of. In view of the above, from year to year, we are trying to secure sufficient resources in the budget of the State to ensure the smooth functioning of medical rescue teams, as we are doing here. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u71	Thank you. Please remain, Minister, because there will be an additional question to be asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u72	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I wanted to continue with this topic or the part about financing medical rescue, because the Minister said, as long as the spending on this medical rescue was increased, my question is when the funding system will improve, because this system is still insufficient. There is a deep underfunding which affects the functioning of this system. Besides, there are many very bad examples or worrying examples that are related to the low funding of medical rescue. At the same time, salary increases will absolutely not change the financial situation of medical rescuers, because they earn very little. When, this year, are additional funds planned to increase salaries for medical rescuers? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u73	Please, Minister Józef Ratchurek-Żelazko.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u74	(PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I've already answered that question. This year we have allocated PLN 50 million to the increase in salaries, and in addition PLN 44 million to the costs of the basic activity. We fully cover the cost of raising medical rescuers from the state budget. Since this year medical rescuers receive an additional 400 PLN in the form of a supplement, because the previous 800 PLN was already spent last year, an additional 400 PLN - since 1 January, i.e. 1,200 PLN in total, rescuers are secured for this year. The funds to cover this increase have been secured in the State budget. So that such increases are implemented and financed by the State budget. As to the fact that medical rescue is deeply underfunded, ladies and gentlemen, in all areas of health care we are talking about underfunding. This government has decided to increase wages, increase health expenditures, and this is how we can raise and increase health benefits. On the other hand, I think that this statement of deep underfunding is also your personal statement to a certain extent, because not anyone else, but Mrs Gądek recently went to the Minister of Health with an interpellation to restore medical rescue, to contract medical rescue teams in Olkusz hospital, because the absence of a medical emergency contract for this hospital will make the financial situation of Olkus hospital much worse. So this is proof that Olkus hospital treated medical rescue as a profitable activity, and Mrs Gądek confirms it. So I think that these statements about deep underfinancing can be such personal statements. We are aware that medical rescue needs funding. We are taking these actions, as I said, this year is almost PLN 100 million more in the system. We will strive for even more in the budget of the State for 2020. The important thing is that the medical emergency system is functioning smoothly, safely. On 1 April this year, the law fully entered into force, which guarantees the release of medical rescue teams. We did it in a very mild way. The project was prepared. Since 1 April, there have been public medical rescue teams in Poland. There's been a contract. In all operational areas, tenderers have come forward. So the inhabitants of Poland can feel safe in our country. We will continue to do this to make it really health safety [[♪ The bell ♪]] The residents were not at risk. I would also like to stress that since 1 April we have about 21 medical rescue teams in Poland more than we have so far. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u75	Thank you. We're going through... I'm calling a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 mins 31 hours 10 min 33]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 12 of the agenda for the Sejm. The next question will be asked by Mrs Anna Czech, Law and Justice, on the financing of hospitals with SORs in their structure, which are burdened with more patients. The question is addressed to the Minister of Health, and the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, will answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u76	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Continuing the topic of rescue, I would like to say that actually rescue teams work very well, efficiently, at a time when the patient is at risk, they operate and bring these patients to hospital emergency units. There are signals in various parts of the country, as well as problems directly observed in my region, which in turn arise in multi-profile hospitals, in which there is a hospital rescue unit. I therefore ask the Minister to answer this question: Is the Ministry aware that many times more patients are hospitalized in hospitals with SORs in emergency situations than in hospitals without SORs? Hospitals with emergency rooms and an obligation to receive patients 24 hours a day, including life-threatening conditions, and to continue treatment refuse to accept the patient, explaining permanently the absence of places. It should be borne in mind that a patient in a life-threatening condition is in diagnostics, therapy is much more expensive, therefore hospitals without SOR try not to accept them for economic reasons. Does the Ministry therefore plan to improve funding for procedures related to the treatment of patients in multi-profile hospitals with SORs in the branches of those hospitals to which patients have to go after stabilisation because they cannot be sent home? The current situation results in overcrowding the fixed branches of these hospitals to patients in sudden life-threatening situations and there is no possibility of returning them. They get into beds in the hallway, and many times they lack space in the hallways. What kind of ministry sees the possibility [[♪ The bell ♪]] Solving this situation? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u77	Thank you. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, will answer. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u78	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we share the view that patients on hospital emergency services are patients who often require complex diagnostics and therapy, and therefore usually generate the highest costs. Some of these patients leave the hospital after this initial diagnosis and treatment, and these costs are actually borne by hospital emergency services, while some of these patients, those who have been admitted to hospital emergency services, are redirected to hospital units. Therefore, the costs that are incurred in emergency services are transferred to the appropriate department, which continues the treatment of the patient concerned, and are accounted for at the cost of hospitalization. As far as the financing of hospital emergency services is concerned, the National Health Fund is probably funding benefits in the hospital rescue unit on a lump sum basis. In determining this daily lump sum, we take into account, among others. those aspects that you have been talking about, namely the number of patients in 24 hours, the type of procedures that are being carried out - with more expensive procedures that are being carried out for the benefit of the patient, these indicators are also taken into account - as well as the performance potential, i.e. medical staff, equipment, medical equipment, medical equipment, as well as diagnostic and therapeutic capabilities. So when setting a daily lump sum for hospital rescue units, we take into account, among others. the number of patients and the types of procedures performed in hospital emergency services. Nevertheless, we realise that these costs are rising at a high rate, and we are considering the possibility of increasing the daily lump sum. I would like to stress that, as far as the financing of hospital emergency services is concerned, the rates are rising from year to year. And so on. In 2015, the average daily rate in the hospital rescue unit was PLN 12 038 and already in 2016 increased by more than 13%, by almost 14%, because it was on average PLN 13 710 in the country. In 2017, another increase - about 18%. The average daily lump sum in hospital emergency units was PLN 16 233 and now in 2019 the average daily lump sum is PLN 17 597. As you can see, these expenditures are increasing. As far as the funding of these branches is concerned, in our country, it is decomposed within the limits of... The maximum daily lump sum in the hospital emergency department is PLN 40 319.56. This is the S.O.R. That... There are several SORs that are financed at this level. And the minimum daily rate is PLN 6057. So, as you can see, we are taking into account the aspects that you are talking about, but we are considering the possibility of increasing funding even further. I would like to stress that we are also taking steps to improve the organisation of work in hospital emergency services. Recently, a change was adopted by the Sejm regarding the possibility of creating or establishing sharp and dull on-calls through hospitals that have hospital emergency units in their structure. Of course, it's an opportunity, not an obligation. If there are several emergency units in a given city, they may, after agreement with the National Health Fund, with voivodship consultants, decide on alternate shifts of duty, which may result in daily readiness in this hospital, which is full of so-called. Dumb duty can be lower, so costs, like personnel costs, can be lower. On the other hand, we are considering the possibility of increasing the lump sum just in the emergency room, because it is known that there will be more patients in this hospital. Another issue is the issue of a new product, which has already been basically prepared and developed at the Ministry of Health, and will be financed separately by the National Health Fund. This is an inter-hospital transport. So far, this transport has been funded as part of a patient's stay in the hospital. We now want to finance it separately. This transport can also be used. As it will have to meet the requirements for technical and personnel equipment comparable to medical emergency teams, it will therefore be possible to dislocate certain patients. If the hospital is unable to provide certain benefits or is currently not available, it will be possible to transport the patient even in an acute life-threatening condition. In an acute condition, it may be possible to transport to another hospital to dislocate these patients so that these patients do not have to wait long on hospital emergency services. In addition, we are going to introduce a mandatory triage, which is mandatory from 1 October. [[♪ The bell ♪]] assessment of the patient's health, and prioritising the provision of benefits. We hope that through this process of segregation patients who do not necessarily need to be admitted to hospital emergency services will be redirected e.g. for night medical attention, because such forms of work function in hospitals. Consequently, the number of patients currently present in the SOR may be reduced. So that the Minister of Health takes these actions. Thank you for this remark, Mrs President, we are considering different options, not only increasing funding, but improving the possibilities of organising work so that our patients do not have to wait too long.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u79	Do you have an additional question? [[Yes.]] You're welcome. Please stay.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u80	Good. Thank you very much, Minister. I still wanted to ask if there was a change in the financing system for multi-profile hospitals, because it has to be taken into account that there are high costs associated with maintaining permanent duty: diagnostics, operating block, readiness for operations at any time of afternoon and night. And maintained e.g. There are shifts in those departments where there is no requirement by the NFZ, but because patients are in the S.R., doctors need to be ready in the wards. And now, as far as the S.R. is concerned, I agree with the fact that there is a flat-rate increase, but there is a lump sum also in the hospital. Patients who are admitted to the SOR unit are not counted in the SOR roar and must be placed in the general roar which the hospital has contracted with the NFZ and then there is no possibility of receiving scheduled patients. Hence my request to include in the next steps just [[♪ The bell ♪]] This element, i.e. a flat-rate increase from patients on an emergency basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u81	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u82	As regards the possibility of reducing on-call requirements in individual hospitals, especially in high-specialized hospitals, I think that the possibility of creating sharp and dull on-calls gives the possibility to reduce the number of doctors on duty in individual hospital departments or studios, in case the hospital does not perform an ER. So here we see some savings opportunities. On the other hand, if it is, once again, he had an E.R., we provide for an increase in this lump sum in order to cover the costs of increased preparedness. The issue of increased valuation of benefits in other hospital branches is an open issue. We are currently discussing this at the Ministry of Health. The clearance rates of certain procedures are being increased. For example, the valuation of internships or general surgery benefits has recently been increased. This makes this hospital flat-rate one also grow. Of course, at the Ministry of Health, we are considering the possibility of increasing funding for other types of benefits. We'll probably be able to bring it in from July 1st. The Minister of Health takes care of the signals from hospitals that are facing financial problems and we are considering ways to increase their funding. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u83	Thank you. Let's move on to the next question. The question on the availability of a diagnosis profession for non-medical graduates is addressed to the Minister of Health, and the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, will answer. The first question at this point will be asked by Mrs Halina Szydleko, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u84	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! My question concerns the availability of the diagnostic profession, taking into account the professionalism and quality of the services provided. This professionalism and quality are provided by graduates of the direction: medical analytics. Hence my question: Will only medical analysts or other non-medical graduates have access to the profession of diagnostics?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u85	You're welcome...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u86	Let me fill in the blanks. Minister! The laboratory diagnosis is part of the medical profession, as is the profession of a doctor, dentist, pharmacist or nurse and midwife. He's a member of the public trust profession. According to the NIK report, 60 Medical diagnosis is based on laboratory findings. The key seems to be who takes responsibility for these results. Even more, whether the person authorising the result is able to interpret it correctly. This cannot be required of natural graduates who did not deal with biological material during their studies. It can also not be expected that they will acquire this knowledge during two-year postgraduate studies, where three semesters of microbiology are condensed to three weekend meetings. The idea of postgraduate studies was to function during a transitional period in order to complement the education of long-term laboratory workers. No one expected this transition period to last 18 years. Who is willing to take responsibility for the results of the studies authorised by a graduate in absentia of two degrees, e.g. 3 years of any philology plus 2 years of master's degree in biology or 3 years of marine science and 2 years of microbiology? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why should we accept this if one-stage studies in medicine, laboratory medicine have developed education standards in the 2016 regulation of the Minister of Science and Higher Education? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u87	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u88	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for this question, because there are many worrying signals in public space about changing the way laboratory diagnostics are trained. Therefore, I have the opportunity to provide you with information on the current situation. Well, ladies and gentlemen, at present in laboratory diagnostics, graduates of medical analysts, as well as biology, microbiology, medical chemistry, medical biology, medical biotechnology, but also pharmacists and e.g. veterinary graduates. Indeed, we want to change this because, as you have mentioned, the correct diagnostic process, which is appropriate and of high quality, depends on further treatment. They must be very professionally prepared to perform their activities. With all this in mind, in 2017 the Minister of Health... Or maybe I'll just go back to that way of learning. As you have mentioned, so far graduates of these departments, apart from medical analysts, have been able to obtain a degree in laboratory diagnostics, completing two years of post-graduate studies. How they were organized is a separate matter. At the moment, however, I must say with full responsibility that this training process is complete. At the moment, universities do not educate, postgraduate education is not provided in the form of postgraduate studies, it has been closed. In 2017, the Minister of Health appointed a team composed of representatives mainly from this area, i.e. laboratory diagnostics, but also national consultants, who were to develop a solution appropriate to our system and possible to be used in our system. This team's work took a long time. Unfortunately, the group members' opinions were very different and did not reach any conclusions. Therefore, the team was dissolved and work was started at the Ministry of Health on the amendment of this law. The project is being prepared right now. It is still in the process of internal working arrangements, which include inter alia. those issues you are asking about, that is, the question of obtaining the qualifications of a laboratory diagnostician. We would like laboratory medicine graduates to work primarily in the system, because we will also change the name for laboratory medicine graduates to work. But, ladies and gentlemen, on a national scale, we have 11 universities, 10 universities plus two universities that have courses: laboratory medicine. or laboratory diagnostics. On average, around 670 students are admitted to these courses each year and approx. 470 graduates. Currently in the country we have 1584 registered laboratories and we are aware that such a training process is not able to guarantee the replacementability of staff, but given that they are currently educated in other departments, which may apply after completing certain qualifications in post-graduate mode, we assume that these courses can be used, for example. graduate microbiology after graduation could possibly work in a laboratory or in a microbiological lab and perform certain activities. They will be able to perform strictly defined activities themselves, but they will unfortunately not be able to perform activities to a certain extent if they do not complete e.g. postgraduate studies. They will not be able to judge, i.e. work in a quality assessment system, etc. So, graduate microbiology, if they want to get a full degree in laboratory diagnostics, they're gonna have to complete their specialization. This also applies to genetic graduates. We have genetic labs that play a very important role in the diagnosis of many diseases. We think these graduates are more prepared to work in a genetic lab than they are in other directions. Therefore, in our view, we cannot, we should not limit their access to work in such studios. Of course, the scope of the competence of such a person will be defined: it will not be able to perform all the tasks or it will be able to perform certain tasks under the supervision of a laboratory diagnostic. There's also the matter of the lab when it comes to blood donation and blood treatment. Here, too, graduates will have to supplement their qualifications in the specialization mode. In general, a graduate of medical analytics will be a full laboratory diagnosis, he will have the full right to work in laboratories, and if he wants to work in a genetic or microbiological laboratory, he will have to complete his qualifications in postgraduate education. We aim to make this learning process more flexible, particularly post-graduate, but the main concern [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Minister of Health is that we can guarantee highly qualified staff in laboratories.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u89	Would Mrs Bernadette Krynicka like to ask an additional question to the previous question... [[Yes.]] ...is it over? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u90	Minister! It is clear from the data obtained by the National Chamber of Laboratory Diagnostics that the point thresholds for admission to biology or chemistry are absolutely not consistent with those required for medical analysts. Most importantly, future medical analysts give an extended degree in biology and chemistry, and the point threshold is well above 50%. In order to get into biology or chemistry, it is enough to pass a degree in biology, chemistry or even geography at the basic level, and often just pass, i.e. to reach 30%. Can you still accept that? Can we imagine a similar side entrance to the profession of doctor, pharmacist or nurse and midwife? I stress that studies in medical analytics / laboratory medicine prepare future graduates not only theoretically, but also practically. Students have compulsory apprenticeships in a medical laboratory where they have first contact with their future work and start after their studies [[♪ The bell ♪]] specialization, which helps to acquire expertise in the selected field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u91	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u92	(PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The Minister of Health refers to the quality of training of laboratory diagnostics. We are fully aware that not all graduates of different degrees can obtain full qualifications for laboratory diagnostics, but if we are talking about a graduate in chemistry or biology, we mean a graduate in medical chemistry and medical biology. Therefore, this process of pre-diploma education coincides, for example, with the area of health protection. Once again, I stress that graduates of this type will never have, if they do not complete post-graduate education, qualifications for self-diagnosing. It is possible to work under diagnostic supervision, while full authorisation, participation in quality processes, will be reserved only for diagnostics. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to emphasise that this is a working material. Thank you for these observations and comments. I'm sure we'll consider them in the process of creating the final form of the bill. This project will be in a public consultation, so I encourage you to give us your comments. We're open. On the other hand, we must remember that with this number of laboratories in the country, more than 1.5 thousand, we need to make sure that they are the right people who will authorize the results, they will watch over the process, quality. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u93	Thank you. We move on to the question of the waiver of immunity proceedings by the Court of Appeal in Krakow to Judge Wojciech Kożewski. The question is addressed to the Minister of Justice and will be answered by Deputy Prosecutor General Mr Krzysztof Sierak. The question will be asked by Mrs Joann Lichock, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u94	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Minister! Judge Kolewski's case is a comical matter, yet embarrassing. It's hilarious, because the judge showed up as a person of not the highest level of wisdom, to say the least. He became a victim of journalistic provocation: he responded to the alleged entry of editor Tomasz Lisa and offered his help in the fight against the government. He also took the liberty of sending photos to this alleged editor to confirm that it was him, Judge Kożewski, and that he wanted to help overthrow the government, and then set up a meeting with the alleged Tomasz Lise. He was exposed because it was a provocation, and the reporters described it. However, this embarrassment was not enough for the judge, because then he testified that he had gone out to meet the alleged Tomasz Lis because he was going to hand over the books to his colleague, a colleague denied that there would be such a finding, and therefore the lie of Judge Kożewski had already come to light. But the judge made an even bigger case, called the D.A.'s office about a crime, said someone broke into his social media account, and he wasn't the one writing off all this nonsense, he was the one who broke into his account. It quickly turned out that there was no break-in, and the prosecution wanted to hold the judge accountable. Unfortunately, this was not the case because the Krakow court refused to waive his immunity and to hold him accountable without regard to the facts and to compromise the judge. If it didn't have such a hilarious meaning, [[♪ The bell ♪]] it would - and it really is - be extremely serious. And now there are questions. Are all citizens equal to the law? Is there a penalty for false testimony or not? Judge Wojciech Kożewski is a representative of the extraordinary caste and can afford to do things?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u95	Madam, please keep your senses in this comment. You're welcome...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u96	Marshal, please don't comment on my question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u97	... Deputy Attorney General Krzysztof Sierak to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u98	I'm very sorry, but Judge Wojciech Kożewski gave a false statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u99	I'll answer your voice when you comment. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u100	And I would like to ask the Ministry: Is such impunity possible?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u101	I'm already... You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u102	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, this fundamental question, whether all citizens are equal to the law, must be given an absolutely affirmative answer: yes, all citizens are equal to the law. Therefore, the regional prosecutor in Krakow on 21 January 2019 sent a request to the disciplinary court at the Court of Appeal in Krakow for permission to hold Judge Wojciech Kożewski liable in connection with the suspicion that he committed crimes involving the submission of a notification of acts which were not committed - that is an offence in the article. 238 of the Penal Code - and of making false statements - that is a crime of art. 233 Penal Code. The evidence gathered during the entire investigation so far indicates that Wojciech Kożewski notified the prosecution of a crime that did not exist on 10 February 2016. This crime was supposed to involve impersonating a judge by an unidentified person on the Twitter social network. In addition, Judge Wojciech Kożewski testified untruthful during the interrogation as a witness because he claimed that his accounts on the aforementioned portal were taken over by an unknown person who conducted correspondence on his behalf. The judge also testified untruthfully that the devices used by him, but without his knowledge and will, were taken a photograph of his face. And on the basis of the evidence gathered, it was also untrue to testify to the judge's reasons for his presence at a meeting with the person who was conducting correspondence with him. The basis for the referral to the disciplinary court was evidence, and above all the testimony of three journalists who responded with Judge Wojciech Kożewski. On 27 January 2016, they asked him to take a picture and send it to them so that they could confirm his identity. The photograph sent at their request represented the image of Judge Kolewski. In order to further verify the identity of the judge, journalists offered him a meeting, which he agreed to. On 28 January 2016, Judge Kolewski reported at the agreed place and time. Another evidence, most relevant in this case, is the expert's opinion in the field of computer science, which shows that no evidence of unauthorised access by a third party to electronic devices used by your judge has been found. In addition, on Wojciech Kożewski's computer, the expert revealed a photo that was sent to journalists to confirm his identity. The expert clearly defined the time of the photograph and the device by which it was taken. He found that the photo was taken by a phone used by Mr. Wojciech Kożewski, synchronized with his computer. The date of this photograph corresponds with the time and content of the conversation conducted on the portal and monitored by journalists. The way the camera is set also indicates that the photograph was taken personally by Mr. Wojciech Kożewski. This opinion also shows that there were no traces of communication using an encrypted communicator in the devices used by Mr. Kolewski. In turn from other testimony of a witness to a friend of Mr Wojciech Kożewski it appears that this witness denies the relationship of Judge Kożewski. This witness states that he never used encrypted comms and by means of them he did not ask Mr. Wojciech Kożewski for any favor. The circumstances arising from the evidence presented, namely the lack of interference of other persons in the data on the devices used by Mr.Kolewski, the personal execution of his image, then sending it to the interviewers and the appointment of the meeting and presence at the same place and time in accordance with the previous agreement, clearly undermine the truthfulness of the report made by your judge of the crime and the submission of false testimony in this regard. Hence, the prosecutor's request in this regard is fully justified. High Izbo! However, further continuation of the preparatory procedure may take place in the light of Article. 80 § 2 point c of the Law on the System of General Courts only after the competent disciplinary court has passed a resolution allowing the judge to be held liable. By decision of 5 April 2019 at the Court of Appeal in Cracow, the Disciplinary Court decided to discontinue proceedings for the examination of the prosecutor's application for permission to hold the judge liable for formal reasons. Let me repeat: for reasons, according to the court, formal. The argument made orally in the grounds of the judgment seems to us, prosecutors, curiosities and at least misunderstood. The prosecution's ruling is absolutely wrong. Upon receipt of the justification and understanding of the arguments of the court, the prosecutor will file an appeal in the form of a complaint to the Supreme Court Disciplinary Chamber, seeking the consent of the disciplinary court to draw Judge Wojciech Kożewski to criminal liability. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u103	Thank you. Would you like to ask an additional question?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u104	Yes, I'd like to ask you another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u105	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u106	Because that raises the question of the integrity of the judge, the integrity of character. The judge is still doing his job, he's a judge. And doesn't the judge, according to the Polish constitution, Polish law, have to have an impeccable character? If the prosecution suspects Judge Wojciech Kożewski to commit a crime and he has it documented, and the court does not question it, only for formal reasons block the possibility of holding the judge responsible, is it not so that against those who will be tried by Mr Kożewski, there is a violation of the law, the right to consider their cases by an impeccable court?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u107	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u108	Of course. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! Of course, it appears from the bill that the judge must be impeccable, and so must the prosecutor. High Izbo! In the area of criminal liability, there is no division into proverbial better and worse. I repeat, proverbial. In the area of criminal responsibility there is no place for proverbial holy cows, sacred because of some function or office. Both judges and prosecutors shall, in the event that they comply with any criminal offence arising from the Penal Code or other criminal laws, comply with the same rules as any citizen, except, of course, that they must obtain the consent of the competent disciplinary court to hold the person liable. I can only promise... High Izbo! I am convinced that justice will certainly be done in this case as well. It is difficult for me to judge the action of the disciplinary court and the Court of First Instance in Krakow, which is proceding, reminding, for 4 months, and is unable to identify the case in substance. In fact, as in the lens, it shows only the corporateity of disciplinary courts. This shows the risks of corporateism, which you have repeatedly stressed by the Minister for Justice of the Prosecutor-General, with a view to making changes in this area. I don't want to generalize here, but looking at disciplinary decisions, you can sometimes have the impression that disciplinary courts are looking for arguments to actually not deal with the case. From my point of view, as Assistant Attorney General, I can stress once again that justice will certainly be served in this particular case. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u109	I'm the one who's still...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u110	This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u111	Mrs. Marshal! I didn't get an answer to the question of what about the citizens' right to an impeccable court.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u112	Madam, I do not give you the floor. [[I'd like a written reply.]] We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that information on state aid for the construction, reconstruction and renovation of roads managed by local authorities and new opportunities to support the development of local road infrastructure, as requested by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be considered at this meeting of the Sejm. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the representative of Mr Bogdan Rzonca's applicants. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u113	Dear Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Parliamentarians! Mr. Minister, you and the team! The subject of roads is an extremely bearable topic in social space. It is worth noting that this year drivers will be made available to nearly 500 km of new routes, that the programme of construction of national roads and motorways is halfway. It can be said that already more than 725 km of new roads have been made available to drivers, of which 231 km only in the previous year. This Decision shall enter The General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways has announced 20 billion tenders for the next 435 km of roads. It is about 17 sections of bypasses, expressways, highways, which will extend the existing routes when put into service. 90% will be contracted at the end of this year appropriations intended for the national road construction programme. I said this at the outset because it is an absolute success when it comes to building national roads and motorways. On the other hand, in response to the enormous needs of local governments, a new financing mechanism for local, local, municipal and district roads emerged. This is the Self-Government Road Fund. Through this fund, we meet the expectations of local government officials who have submitted projects to the Ministry for years so that the Ministry can finance municipal and district roads. And always that money was missing - always. The idea of setting up the Self-Government Road Fund was to change this state of affairs. It was intended to make all those who make the correct conclusions able to build these roads quickly. Why? Because we believe that the lack of communication access to municipalities, cities and towns results in the exclusion of communication, the reduction in the status of these cities and towns and the community living there. The lack of a mechanism to improve the state of municipal and district roads and bridges along these roads contributes to huge financial losses due to material damage, road accidents, human dramas. It was calculated that in 2017, dear countries, the High Sejm, the financial losses concerning Polish roads in general accounted for around 3% annual GDP, PLN 50 billion. These include death compensation, medical expenses, disability pensions, etc., but also material losses. Therefore, this fund is very expected, very necessary and we should discuss it so that it can function as best as possible. We do not claim that it is already perfect and that in the course of its operation in the coming years all social parties, voivodships, self-governments, mayors, city presidents, Members and government will improve this mechanism in order to achieve a balanced, sustainable development of the whole of Poland. Communication exclusion is also an economic exclusion; it is an educational exclusion. For this reason, there are huge losses. This is why we are discussing the issue we are dealing with today. We simply want to talk to the Minister and the Government so that we can describe even better all the events that would enable local and local brothers and local communities to function better in the area of economy, education and economic development. That is why, on behalf of the applicants, I propose this subject and thank you very much, Your Marshal, for taking it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u114	Thank you. And please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Rafał Weber. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u115	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank the High House for taking up the theme of the Self-Government Road Fund. I am very pleased that, in addition to the adoption of the law at the end of last year, the High Chamber also shows an interest in what is happening in the field of support for local, municipal and district roads, but also in the field of support for the construction of bridges throughout the voivodeship roads, as well as in the stage at which we are at. I think, as the Ministry of Infrastructure, we owe this information to the High House. Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning, several general issues, but related to municipal and district road construction. Stimulating the development of local, district and voivodship networks alongside the development of national road networks is one of the main transport priorities of the current government. Thanks to the operation of support mechanisms of local government units, the state of the road network has been significantly improved and new tools will allow for further improvement of Polish local roads. Although the road network has been improved, it is still unsatisfactory. Ladies and gentlemen! Unsatisfactory standards of district and municipal roads, which serve the smooth movement of residents in their regions, represent an important barrier to economic activity, investment and the competitiveness of regions and economic centres. This hinders access to and communication between regional and local development centres and their surroundings and contribute to the deepening of the territorial diversity of economic activity. At the same time, it should be pointed out that, despite the support provided by the State to local government units in recent years, the problem of unsatisfactory standards of district and municipal roads continues to force intensive action. The technical condition of local roads is very diverse. Despite the pavement of hard roads, many of them do not have a expensive system for collecting rainwater, resulting in accelerated degradation of the road body. Some roads with bituminous surfaces require or will require renovation in the near future At least the abrasion layer. It is important, ladies and gentlemen, what was the state in 2014. From the information provided by the Supreme Audit Chamber on the results of the audit The organisation of the district and municipal road network, taking into account the results of the implementation of the 'National Local Road Redevelopment Programme', shows that, firstly, 29% of roads are in good and satisfactory condition, secondly, 35% of roads are in unsatisfactory condition, thirdly, as many as 36% of roads are in poor condition. Thus, at that time the highest percentage of municipal and district roads in our country was estimated by the Supreme Chamber of Control as roads in bad condition. I move on to the question of the future, which is the new local road financing mechanism. In view of the above, the creation of the Self-Government Road Fund should be considered as the most important action to support local government units. It is the largest - I stress: the largest - after 1989 - integrated instrument to support the implementation of investments in roads managed by local government units. The Fund is a comprehensive response to the problems of the unsatisfactory state of the municipal and district road network, as well as the lack of financial resources on the local government side. The analysis of the operation of the municipal and district road infrastructure which existed until last year shows that the funds from the state budget to date for the construction, reconstruction and renovation of district and municipal roads were significantly lower than the needs; the need for funding was about 100% higher than the available limits, i.e. there were deficiencies, the second amount. Road infrastructure is also an important element for the proper functioning, development of the economy both at national and local level. The development of road infrastructure increases the availability of communication, both in the case of economic centres and in the case of urban centres, public institutions, investment areas or tourist areas. Therefore, the Local Roads Fund proposes much more affordable conditions for financing road investments. The possibility of financing up to 80% of the costs of the task has been introduced, making the level of funding of the entity subject to the level of its income. As a result, less wealthy municipalities and powiats will also be able to apply for funds and the amount of their own contribution will be much less damaging to their budgets. One pre-existing threshold of up to 50% of funding meant that many of the most in need could not afford to apply for such measures. The maximum amount of funding has also been increased. It currently amounts to as much as PLN 30 million and is ten times higher than in previous years. The same mechanism will also provide funding for bridge investments included in the government's programme to complement local and regional road infrastructure. Bridges for the regions. The aim of this programme is to complement the road network with missing river crossings, which are a very expensive part of road infrastructure. In this case, the subsidy will equal 80% the implementation of such an investment. On the other hand, 100% of the funding will be granted to defence roads designated by the Minister for National Defence. The development of road infrastructure will enable the smooth acceptance of NATO's allied forces to strengthen our country and will contribute to the maintenance and development of the operational capacity of the Republic's Armed Forces to counter military threats. This infrastructure will, of course, also serve the inhabitants on a daily basis. In order to better match the funding mechanisms with the needs of local government units, the Fund decided on a significant degree of decentralisation by entrusting the voivodships with the criteria for the selection of proposals, so that the rules were best adapted to the specificities of the various voivodships. So, ladies and gentlemen, it's not Warsaw, it's not the headquarters that decides what criteria are set and passed on to the voivodships, it's the freedom we give to the voivodships, because they know the needs of their voivodships better, they know the roads, the road environment, the investment opportunities that should be implemented. So that here the voivods received such instruments from us. This year only this year, in 2019, almost PLN 6 billion was allocated for the funding of tasks. The first group of tasks, which will receive funding from the Fund, will be transferred from the selection of proposals under the development programme of municipal and district road infrastructure carried out in 2018. As a result, local authorities will be able to benefit from new solutions dedicated to them now. The selection of applications for the funding of municipal and district tasks announced by the voivodships for the remaining unused funds within the limits given to the various voivodships for implementation in 2019 and at the turn of July and August this year, i.e. earlier than the two recruitments, which I had just told you about, will begin with the selection of applications for municipal and district tasks which will be carried out in 2020. The evaluation of the proposals will be carried out by a special committee set up by the competent local voivodeship. In view of the objectives of balancing socio-economic potential, improving the quality of life of residents and ensuring territorial cohesion in the area of the voivodship, the members of the committee will have to take into account the following conditions when carrying out the evaluation: improving road safety, ensuring the coherence of public road networks, improving the technical standards of district roads and municipal roads and maintaining the uniformity of district road and municipal road networks in terms of meeting these standards, increasing the availability of transport administrative units, improving the availability of investment areas. To sum up, ladies and gentlemen - thanking you again for this current information, also asking for a discussion that will probably come soon - the Government of Law and Justice not only [[♪ The bell ♪]] he has successfully continued the mechanisms used so far to support local government units, but he has also introduced a comprehensive solution that helps poorer local governments forgotten by previous governments and, above all, allows the necessary projects to be carried out on a much wider scale than ever before. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u116	Thank you. I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. Would any of your fellow Members like to join the list? I can't see. So I'm closing the list. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Cicholska, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first to ask a question at this point. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u117	Thank you. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The programme of the Self-Government Road Fund meets the expectations of both self-government and drivers and society as a whole. At this point, I would like to thank the Ministry of Infrastructure and the committee that worked on it first of all. It is a long-awaited programme by society and local governments. The lack of proper access to small towns and towns, as everyone knows, causes many material losses. Every day we hear how many car accidents there are, how many people die. With this project, we can simply prevent it. Good communication between cities and towns is needed because it contributes to the proper development of entrepreneurs. Students also have difficulty in accessing schools. Ladies and gentlemen! This will bring about sustainable communication across the country. I have a question for the Minister. How much will the Ministry of Infrastructure allocate to the Local Roads Fund across the country? What amount of this fund will be allocated to the Mazowieckie voivodship? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u118	Thank you. Mr Stanisław Żmijan, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, will now perform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u119	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I will refer to Mr Bogdan Rzonca's introductory words. The national road construction programme could have been successful through cost optimization. Unfortunately, it didn't end. It's supposed to be cheaper, it's more expensive. The performers are coming down with pain. This is a sad reality about this issue. On the issue of local roads, I would like to say that it was us, please, in the High House, the government of PO and PSL, who started this programme, a very good programme of support for local roads. Between 2008 and 2015, over PLN 11 billion was allocated for this purpose. Almost 15 thousand have been modernised. km of roads. It would be good if, based on transparent, stable procedures, the programme would continue. Is that what happened? Go back to history, not so far away. The PiS government plans to allocate PLN 1100 million for 2018. In December it reduces this amount to PLN 800 million. Self-governments are irritated because they have to make adjustments, etc. There are elections to the local government and the Prime Minister announces that he has an additional 500 million PLN. To this day, I cannot get an answer to the question on the basis of which procedures the Prime Minister issued such a large amount. Certainly not based on the procedures of this program. As regards the 2019 programme, it is implemented according to old procedures: the selection of applications by 15 September, by the end of the year the committees were to assess them and the resort was to approve the programme. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The first quarter was to be tendered. To this day, there is no decision on this matter. Recruitment under the Local Roads Fund Act is a call for 2 years. Again, what is the direction of Law and Justice? [[Voice from the room: Time.]] Of course, it's an election narrative, nothing else. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u120	There you go. Another performance. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u121	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It's a good thing the government's going to build roads, but it's not revealing. We are pleased that this has been duly justified. The National Local Road Redevelopment Programme has been in place since 2008 and continues to operate. As my predecessor said, 11 billion PLN was spent on this program. I say yes, the Minister said one thing, he didn't cut himself off from his predecessors, he just said it was a continuation of what they invented. Indeed, it was a very good program. You want to outbid him and say 80%. So we're saying good. I have a question. I would like to obtain from the Minister, probably in writing, information about this - maybe by region, by voivodeship - how many district roads, communal roads were made under previous programmes which were announced and for which this recruitment was conducted? However, it cannot be such a joyful work. I'm listening to what you're saying. In your opinion, practically all roads will be rebuilt. Great happiness. Whoever takes care of some roads knows that there are huge needs there. These needs are huge and require huge financial resources. So now my question, Minister. When the criteria are reduced to 80%, how many roads can you predict can be made in kilometers and percent? What needs will remain to be met? Like I said, needs are huge, and resources are what they are. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They're not stunning. How much will you make for that money? [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u122	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Honourable Members! The situation is that because more than 40 people have asked questions, and the question time is 2 minutes, you will have to shorten the list by about half... [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] Unless we agree on one minute... [[Voice from the room: No.]] [[Voice from the room: Good.]] ...and then everyone... One and a half minutes, okay... [[Voice from the O.R.: 1 minute!]] [[Voice from the room: 1.5 minutes.]] Krakow's trade fair, 1.5 minutes. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u123	I feel hurt, Marshal, but I'll try.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u124	It's life, life is brutal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u125	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The subject is very serious and the time for discussion should also be appropriate. Because the question of the need to improve road infrastructure managed by local governments is absolutely clear and here is the full agreement of everyone in this room. On the other hand, Minister, I would like to ask immediately how much the city of Bielsko-Biała, as well as the counties of Bielsko, Cieszyński, Pszczyński and Żywietki will receive as part of this support. And here the answer to this question is impossible, because you have adopted such criteria, that it is in principle not possible today to indicate who will receive this funding, to what extent. Besides, we're delayed from our previous recruitment program. This is essentially a question of political decisions. The Minister was kind to say here that the decisions will not be made in Warsaw. I do not know where Prime Minister Morawiecki will make these decisions. I think it's in Warsaw. You know very well that this is the record in the bill that the Prime Minister can do anything, so in fact no one will know until the last moment what decisions will be made. On the other hand, I would like to say that you are introducing statutory restrictions which, in the context of budgetary expenditure, will even prevent this programme from being implemented, because in the Sejm, the Sejm is proceding a law that will allow the finance minister to [[♪ The bell ♪]] suspension of expenditure. I have a question, Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u126	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u127	...isn't it that you guys talk about it nicely here, and as part of stopping this program, it's just not going to happen. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u128	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Galla, non-attached Member. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u129	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! When you presented your information, you were talking about voivodship roads, county roads, communal roads of defensive importance. I'm supposed to understand that we use a different mode for these roads. This is due to the reply of the State to my request, in which I was informed that at the moment preparations are underway for concluding agreements with beneficiaries according to a list prepared by the Minister of Defence and approved by the President of the Council of Ministers, i.e. here the dot has already been placed. And because of the secret nature of the project resulting from the above-mentioned provisions, this is incomplete information. Nevertheless, I would like to ask you a few questions here. If I may, I'm asking for an answer in writing, even in a private way. So that I would very much ask you to take this subject seriously, because the local authorities are asking. They're asking if... When applications were made for these roads, as you know, it was predicted that these roads would be renovated. Today, however, the rules show that these will be roads that will undergo major reconstruction, modernisation. You have to keep the parameters of type 2 times 3.5 m, arches, etc. We know the conditions under which the roads are voivodship, district, and the communes especially, often in built-up areas. My question is this: is this programme, as far as those roads on which proposals have already been made are concerned, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will it be possible to carry out the following year, Minister? And will there be derogations from these strict criteria, including the possibility of changing part of the course of this road? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u130	Mr Piotr Pyzik, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u131	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to ask you about the roads in terms of the road fund. About 3 years ago, our allies went through Poland as part of the Dragoon Ride operation and this action showed that renovation and even the construction of roads of a defensive nature are a necessity. And as a Member of Silesian land, Polish Silesia, the more I would like to highlight this aspect. So here's my question. As far as this issue is concerned, especially on renovations, because this will probably be the most important issue, whether the local governments can count on this funding, which the Minister mentioned, you spoke about these 100% ? That's one thing. And how will this fund of the Ministry of National Defence be available for all of this, because this is about PLN 0.5 billion, if I remember correctly? Thank you kindly. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u132	Thank you. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u133	High Izbo! Regional roads are also self-government roads. In addition to two cases, the possibility of funding from this programme was excluded from the State budget. It's a mistake, and it's a serious mistake. Let me give you an example of the Opole Voivodship. Two 7-year-old financial perspectives refurbished 1/3 of the roads. We still need to remodel 1/3, and we're running out of resources. This requires about PLN 1 billion, and another perspective will give just 1/4, 1/3 of these funds. So citizens will not have a complete road system in the region. Let me give you an example. It's the Blacks bypass, the Goods bypass made in the Blacks bypass version - 120 million. It takes 160 for the next episode. After expanding the area of Opola it is so that 60% this bypass belongs to the city of Opola, and the rest belongs to the local government. In your funding regime or access to funds, this necessary 5 km bypass, around Opole's power plant, will not be implemented. These cases need to be predicted. Another issue is the bridge for the regions. I think only three regions are taking up this challenge. Why? Because, first of all, you have to apply for documentation first, and then you have to submit another application again and there is another expectation, and there is uncertainty as to whether the task will be taken into account. More than that, bridges require huge access infrastructure. It's all extremely expensive. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If you do not change the rules, these tasks will be very rarely carried out. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u134	Mr Mieczysław Miazga, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u135	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In recent years, in the programmes on road tasks in municipalities and powiats, the prerequisite for obtaining funds was inter alia. that the investments had to be made and settled in one year. I have a question: Can an investment spread over several years in the new programme of the local road construction fund? If so, how much? This would be a very beneficial solution, because bigger tasks are difficult to complete within a year. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u136	Mr Antoni Duda, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u137	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Government of the United Right attaches great importance to the sustainable development of the country, and this is influenced, among others. the state of the local roads. From the beginning of his office, Prime Minister Morawiecki has paid great attention to bringing these local roads to a state that is in line with the expectations of the inhabitants, especially the so-called. Provinces. About 6 billion are planned for this purpose. per year. Here I would like to remind you that the government of PO-PSL spent about 5.2 billion on Schetinówki. zł. The modernisation of these roads will be financed, which means that some part must be covered by the local government. The maximum funding is 80%. And here I would like to ask the question: What is the maximum amount of funding and can it be negotiated under specific conditions? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u138	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u139	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Well, it's a good thing you paid attention to what the government of the Civic Platform, the PSL, was doing. It's a good thing you're trying to see what we've done, and we've done it very well. The scheme consists of more than PLN 11 billion, resources from the additional reserve of general subsidies. it's almost PLN 3 billion. Those measures are for sure. [[Applause]] They allowed cities today to develop smoothly. Minister, I have here a proposal from the Śląskie Voivodship containing the criteria that you spoke about, including the scope of freedom that a voivod can establish, for example. Silesian in the context of criteria. These criteria, Minister, allow for freeness, lack of precise, let's say, criteria that properly label individual elements and give the right amount of points necessary e.g. to accept a project, even in the context of the construction of an overpass, bridge, etc. on the road. They are generally discretionary - if we are from this party, we will give this party. Many times you emphasized this in election programs before the elections to local government. I wanted to ask the Minister if the Minister is doing some kind of review, monitoring of what these voivodships represent. What are the criteria? Today in the Śląskie Voivodship, in the powiat jastrzębski, [[♪ The bell ♪]] In the county of Jorky...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u140	Mr Wiesław Krajewski, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u141	...in the district of Raciborski, it really takes a lot of money to get them on these roads, not the discretion of these... [[Applause]] [[The Vice Marshal shuts down the microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u142	Mr Krajewski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u143	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The development of communication infrastructure is of great importance for the development of regions and translates directly into an increase in the level and quality of life of their inhabitants. Therefore, the Act on the Self-Government Road Fund adopted by the Sejm on 23 October 2018 met with great approval of local and district government officials, especially in those self-governments which are economically weaker and do not have sufficient resources in their budgets to improve existing road infrastructure, and especially for new investments. This law gives rise to a lot of hope that the funds raised from this fund by local authorities will significantly improve infrastructure. Preparatory work on planned modernisation or new investments in road infrastructure is currently underway in many local authorities so that they can make the most of these measures recommended for them. Therefore, there are many doubts and questions which are also addressed to us, Members. That's why I'm asking you to answer a few of them. Will the municipal or district government encounter restrictions on the number of applications submitted for this purpose? Can a local authority submit more than one application for these tasks? Can a request for funding for road tasks be a joint proposal for two or more local authorities? [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u144	Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u145	Can you apply for funding of bridge tasks on municipal or district roads from the Self-Government Road Fund? Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u146	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u147	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! It wasn't Law and Justice that came up with a program of construction, reconstruction, expansion of local roads. This program was created two terms ago as a program for reconstruction of local roads. We call him, and we're used to that name, the scheming program. We have invested more than PLN 5 billion directly from the budget, the second amount has been added by local governments. In total, we have committed over 11 billion. The result is 14 800 km of reconstructed local roads, including 1 000. built from scratch. Today, the PiS is unable to demonstrate similar achievements. And yet you commit this sin, that you have unclear sources of funding. These are defined as a national environmental fund. You're taking the money that the local government needs to fight the smog. You're taking 0.5 billion from the Ministry of National Defence's budget. This money is needed to arm the Polish army. You're taking 0.5. billions - that is as much as a year would be enough to buy two F-35 fighters, and that is a disgrace. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u148	Mr Aleksander Mr Forczyński, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u149	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Regarding the previous statement, Minister, I just wanted to say that 6 times 6 is 36 billion and that is more than 11 billion. The long-awaited Self-Government Road Fund is, i.e. there are much more resources for district-common roads in Poland, there are many times more. The previous programme was a good but definitely insufficient programme. Let me remind you, it was 50-50. There is a chance under the government's funding programme of up to 80%, depending on the wealth of the municipality, with the possibility of financing 100% of the investment in the defence road. Within the framework of the 50-50 programme in the Pomeranian Voivodeship, in my voivodship, average local governments received PLN 40.45 million for the implementation of road investments, if necessary - up to 150 million, about 30% per year. I hear that some local governments will now submit several or several applications. I have the impression that these are sometimes intentional actions. Minister! In what part of the previous programme 50 out of 50 in the country was government funding secured in relation to the applications submitted? Or like in the Pomeranian Voivodeship? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u150	Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Club Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u151	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For many years now, I have been working to complete the construction of the expressway of the S1-8.5 km section of Przybydz -Milówka, called bypassing the Hungarian Górka. You've signed at least strange agreements. Former Prime Minister Szydło and the promises of Minister Adamczyk. So? Nothing. It's April, and the contract hasn't been signed or even the tender hasn't been completed. The tender I mentioned, which was repeatedly postponed and significantly delayed, took account of the underpriced cost. In 2017 the expected cost of the investment amounted to PLN 1546 million, and the tender indicated that the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways intends to allocate an unreally low amount of PLN 1313 million. The project has not changed, and the price of materials They even got up. No wonder, then, that there was no reliable contractor who would undertake to build, implement this investment. The inhabitants are constantly complaining about the great nuisance, noise, emissions and increased dangers on this road. When will they finally see the completion of the construction of the S1 instead of the promises? I will add that it is a very important investment not only for Żywiecczyn, but also for the whole of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u152	Mr Mariusz Trepka, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u153	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, The Self-Government Road Fund meets the expectations of local governments, provides stable funding for infrastructure projects at district and municipal level. This will create a functional and secure road and bridge infrastructure in the future, which will contribute to improving the level, quality of life of local communities and attractiveness and accessibility of investment areas. 6 billion or almost 6 billion are earmarked for the Self-Government Road Fund this year, as the Minister said. This amount in previous years, when the opposition was present in power, local governments could only dream, ladies and gentlemen. I thank the law and justice government for their support... [[Oh, poor self-governments. We're sorry for your loss.]] ...what Poles and local governments receive. [[The president needs to be told.]] Dear Minister, I therefore have a question: Will the proposals that will be qualified in the current selection need to be invoiced and settled this year? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u154	Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u155	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, road needs, whether local or higher, are extremely large and important. Mr Rzońc, who introduced this topic, spoke about the great successes of the PiS in terms of national roads, express roads, etc. Unfortunately, these are just words, because if we look at them, for example. on the S7 road between Krakow and Świętokrzyskie voivodeship - I remember perfectly that Mr Adamczyk as a Member had a lot to say about it - we see that until today for four years practically the case has not moved forward. So it's not like there's any success here, it's rather completed cases that have been started and run by the previous governing arrangement. And now, as for the program itself, it's very good that the PiS declarations are so promising. I hope these aren't just declarations. I'm sure some of this will be realized. But I would like to draw attention to the way this can be done. It has already been said that, unfortunately, the PiS method is that funds are allocated according to unclear criteria. Prime Minister Morawiecki distributes 500 million unknowingly how, now the voivode will also distribute according to unclear criteria. It's just anarchizing the state, anarchising the justice system, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Same here. And I'm warning you about that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u156	Mr. Jacek Kurzepa, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u157	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! We're in a double reality, I'd say. We, politicians on the right and on the left, drive on the same holes, the same excavations, feel the same need to repair the local government roads. And it's a good thing the local roads program was built. On the other hand, if my previous speaker is talking about certain situations related to the politicisation of this programme, I would like to draw attention to this - and that is my question, Minister - that there are certain local governments, of course, governed not by our political faction, who are offended by this programme and to the anger of Poles want to show that Law and Justice promises this but does not implement it. And we want to make it happen. Therefore, this 6 billion a year and the phase-up of tasks for many years is supported by local authorities. I think that's how this program was configured. Therefore, this is not only a rhetorical question to the Minister, but also an incentive and request for self-government like Poland long and wide: please enter this program, do not be offended by this program and do not show your people your evil face. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u158	Mrs Anna Nemś, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u159	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! First of all, Minister, congratulations on your nomination. I think it's been a week since you're Secretary of State at the Ministry. It would be good for you to reject these PR statements in favour of the medical profession, which is very much needed in such subjects. I don't think Minister Adamczyk has the courage to stand here and answer a lot of questions. We all remember that there were supposed to be more roads and they were supposed to be cheaper. It's expensive, and it's not much. And who's to blame? The guilty are others, for example. contractors. The applicant boasts that you have announced a record number of tenders. So what if the cost estimates are extremely different from the investor prices? Ladies and gentlemen! In the case of e.g. The ring road I asked you about, Minister, was missing 200 million. How is it possible for you to make such a mistake? It's just a paper success, it's a carousel so you can go to your constituents and say, please see, we've announced a tender, the first one - unsolved, maybe we'll wait, we'll analyze. Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, I am afraid that this programme, which you are now referring to local roads, has the same intention. It's a shame, because local roads require [[♪ The bell ♪]] large amounts of resources. I'm very sorry about that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u160	Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u161	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! According to the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber, the programme of development of municipal and district road infrastructure in 2016-2019 has significantly changed the quality and length of municipal roads. We were promoted in 2012 from 122nd place to 72nd place in 2017. The data come from the World Economic Forum and relate to the entire globe, and it must be said that our country lies in a zone where we have winter, which does not reflect the reality. I think we should be in our 30s. Since 2019, the Self-Government Road Fund has been operational. Minister! Can local governments build bridge objects within the FDS? If yes, are there any criteria, e.g. tonnage, and on what roads? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u162	Mr Leszek Ruszczyk, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u163	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Continuing the proven and good practice of the Schetiny programme is a wise action. We have a historic opportunity to improve the entire infrastructure and, above all, to make traffic and make sense, but they will also be in good condition. Except the schletin program had clear criteria. [[Applause]] Here the criteria are unclear, and it can be said that they allow discretion, even from political preferences or sympathy. So are we going to achieve the effect it was supposed to achieve? I would like to give here an example of a road in Radom, where, after giving up S7, the western ring road, during the local government campaign, the ministers of PiS promised that the road passing through the city on the rights of the county, i.e. the local government, in the course of ul. Warszawska and ul. Kielce will be renovated for government money. 20 million have been promised, unfortunately the Deputy Minister has not become President of Radom and there is no money. Will that money be reserved? Finally, the Deputy Minister promised them. I have one more question. Shouldn't voivodship authorities at least take part in the consultation, [[♪ The bell ♪]] To create whole systems? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u164	Mr Adam Oldakowski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u165	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Members of the PO and PSL are so proud of their local government programme and the achievements they have achieved. Less than 2,000. km/year. But are you? You know we have over 200,000 roads like this. A mile? Count how much time it takes at your rate to repair and rebuild these roads. Over 100 years. [[Applause]] How many generations does it take to build these roads? Don't brag about it. You guys didn't do it very well at a slow pace. How many companies have you shut down because of your various projects? That's why we're in trouble right now. [[And you don't do anything.]] Minister! I have a question for you: What municipalities are excluded from the Local Roads Fund? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u166	Mrs Lydia Gądek, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u167	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The programme itself is very good, of course, as a continuation of our programme from years ago, which, contrary to what you have said, has given real roads on which Poles can really drive better and through which local communities develop. And it would be wonderful... From this debate one could conclude that elections should be in Poland actually every year, because then Law and Justice would definitely prepare a new program every year and throw some new money. Although half of this would not be realized, the other half still satisfies us. My question, Minister, is one thing. Speaking of the tender for the modernisation of road 94 in Olkusz, which has already been cancelled. Why was it annulled? You're building so well, so why didn't you upgrade it for the second time? Minister Adamczyk has already announced three times that she will be. And she's not here. Another thing. Please tell us what are the security features of the Ministry, that there will be at least one independent person, an expert, who will not be directly associated with the political option of governing, i.e. directly with the voivodship, in the selection committees appointed by the voivodship. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u168	Mr Tomasz Ławniczak, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u169	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Between 2012 and 2015 as part of the National Road Redevelopment Fund, i.e. the so-called. Schetynówek was co-financed in Wielkopolska by investments of PLN 199 million, or PLN 50 million per year. In 2019 the amount of funds from the local government fund per Wielkopolska voivodship amounts to PLN 377 million plus PLN 92 million as a limit for multi-annual tasks. In the category of district roads there are sometimes longer sections, for local roads, which connect two national roads sometimes passing through two separate powiats. Within the framework of obtaining funds from the national fund for the reconstruction of local roads, i.e. the so-called. Schetynówki, they had great difficulty meeting procedural requirements, e.g. due to the need to implement and settle the total investment in one calendar year. In the powiats Ostrowski and Pleszewski in Wielkopolska, an example of such a road is the district road Górzno - Kościelna Village connecting the national road No 11 with the national road No 12 north of Ostrów Wielkopolski and Kalisz. In this connection, I have a question: Can the roads of the district category which are the liaisons of two national roads located in two different powiats, Minister, count on obtaining point preferences when dealing with applications for the Self-Government Road Fund? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u170	Mr Marek Wójcik, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u171	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to draw attention to the problem of the reconstruction of DK Road No 79 in the section covering the Upper Silesian agglomeration. This is the road which is managed by local governments, by Bytom, Chorzów, Katowice. This is a road of great importance for the Upper Silesian agglomeration, for those cities through which it passes, but also for Piekar, Siemianowice. The traffic on this road is just huge, giant in 24 hours, and the problem is... I would also like to make this clear to the Minister. This is the way that runs right through the middle of Chorzow. A few dozen years ago, the market in Chorzów was built and this tens of thousands of car traffic is just let go. However, unfortunately, due to the costs of financing this investment, i.e. 1400 million PLN, this road practically eludes all the financing mechanisms that the government is proposing at this moment. At this stage, the environmental decision is ready, the project is ready, but there is simply no mechanism for financing the construction of such an important road section, which is, in accordance with Polish law and rules on road management, a road managed by local authorities. Therefore, Minister, I would like to ask you to reflect on whether it would be worthwhile to put in place some mechanism to finance such projects: costly, but of great importance in both national and local terms. I think the example of DK 79 is the best proof here. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u172	Mrs Marta Kubiak, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u173	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Bridges are also important elements of road infrastructure, which is why I would like to know what the "Bridges for the Regions" programme looks like and whether the general subsidy reserve programme will be maintained. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u174	Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u175	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! During discussions with local government officials and residents of the Podlaskie Voivodship, I was often asked to intervene on many infrastructure issues. A number of local roads need to be repaired in many municipalities, cities and powiats of the Podlaskie Voivodeship. The bypasses of many cities are equally important, for example. Sokółki, Bielska Podlaskie, Siemiatycz and many others in Podlaskie Voivodeship. Therefore, Minister, I would like to know how much money the government has spent on modernising the road infrastructure of the Podlaskie voivodship for 2019 and next years. How much money has been earmarked since November 2015 for the modernisation and construction of local roads in Podlaskie Voivodship? What infrastructure investments are currently carried out on the basis of the funds of the Self-Government Road Fund if they are implemented at all? What is the advancement of this work? What investments does the government support in Łomża, Suwałki and other cities and towns of Podlaskie Voivodship? Why were voivodship cities such as Białystok excluded from this program? After all, the voivodship cities are developing equally dynamically and should also have funding. Finally, I would like to run away from the topic and ask for the route 8 from Bialystok to Augustów and the road S19. I'd like a written reply. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u176	Mr Krzysztof Głuchowski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u177	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The role of roads in general, the role of local roads, we don't have to talk much about and see whether such investments are right. I have a question for the Minister: As regards the hierarchy of importance of these projects, will district projects combining national roads be preferred? It is also important here that individual investments are carried out in a timely manner. And an additional question: Will it be possible to build hiking and cycling lines based on funds from the Roads Fund? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u178	Ms Anna Wasilewska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u179	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We all know how bad it is on local roads. With me, in the region of Warmia and Mazury, much has changed for the better, because the famous schetins were gigantic changes and many roads have gained a new glow. Today, the Self-Government Road Fund is also called by your self-government sketches. Very good. We know who started and what's good and working well shouldn't be changed. [[Applause]] But as rulers, you're doing something worse because you're giving money to your own. You're from the PiS - you've got the money, you're from the opposition - you're driving on the open roads. Few of this, I think that my region, Warmia and Mazury, as it is a poor region, but with very heavy traffic, should be given a bigger pool for road renovations, because there are the biggest negligence that is still due to history. It's in Mazury except for the big transit traffic... Many tourists from Poland and abroad come here. They come to rest and sail, but I personally would like them to return safely and happily. And when the holiday season comes, it's very different, because many of these little roads... And you know how squirrelly it is out there, how many trees there are. Once the holes get there, it's just dangerous. And that's why I wanted to ask, according to which key are passed on today [[♪ The bell ♪]] Local government money to repair local roads? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u180	Mr Jan Warzecha, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u181	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I'll start by congratulating you on taking over the function. Good luck with that. Ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to point out that... I have analysed the opposition's statements and it can be said that the two statements were positive and indeed the questions were substantive. Mr Po-KO Marek Wójcik and Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski. The rest - filled with frustration. Mr. Marshal, I'm surprised. You called shame a program that's good, maybe it's not perfect, but it's probably gonna be modified. Another local governmentman with experience called it anarchy of the state. That's too far-reaching a statement. I believe that although you have some dilemmas about the sources of funding, that the funds are coming from a national fund, the Ministry of National Defence, it can be passed on in a more peaceful, substantive way. Minister, I have a question. Will the Self-Government Road Fund be able to count on the funding of hiking and cycling routes? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u182	Mr Tomasz Nowak, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u183	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! 66 cities excluded, Minister. Because neither the National Road Fund nor the City Road Fund on the county's rights can benefit from any funding and are actually doomed to spend all the money on renovation. or reconstruction of national roads at the expense of voivodship, local and municipal roads. This is a profoundly unequal approach, which I believe should be challenged at the moment, also for constitutional reasons. Why are these cities still excluded in the creation of the Self-Government Road Fund? An example of the city, which bears the enormous cost of this, is Konin, who has a lot of national roads in its area and, worse than that, engineering facilities, overpasses and bridges located just on national roads. Most funds for reconstruction are financed at the expense of the reconstruction of voivodship roads. Without special government support for cities on the county's rights, their infrastructure will become increasingly destructive. Konin today has a problem with the eskady, which cost PLN 230 million, and so-called. the Warsaw bridge, which demands repair. Just a simple decision. Allow the city on the rights of the county to the National Fund [[♪ The bell ♪]] Self-government roads, if you can't do it in the Self-Government Road Fund. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u184	Mr Tomasz Summer, the Law and Justice Club. [[There isn't.]] Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u185	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! It is good that there is a fund for road renovation and modernisation, but this project has many gaps, very much confusion. And I wanted, first of all, to point out that he's very late. The construction season has already begun. There are no decisions which roads will be co-financed. And yet there are more and more situations where it is difficult to choose a contractor in tenders. And I'm afraid there's not much going on this year. There'll just be promises, and that's not the point. And I wanted to ask you a few details. It's about the city on county rights. This is the town of Jelenia Góra. Why? But another question. The voivodship roads or some voivodship roads are in bad shape, e.g. section of road No 297 in Lower Silesia. Why can't this fund be used to finance this road, which is very frequent, which threatens the population? Another issue is the very vague criteria for applying the 80% indicator. Is there an appeal procedure or not? And how will the Ministry guarantee the transparency of the programme? This is an extremely important matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u186	Mrs Bernadette Krynicka, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u187	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The network of local roads in Poland is still quite poorly developed, with low surface quality, which puts us in a negative light among the countries of the European Union. Unfortunately, the so-called construction program. Schetynówki has not improved the state of the local infrastructure sufficiently. The Fund for Self-Government Roads is a cure for the sick Polish communal and district roads. For the first time in the history of the Polish state, the government approached comprehensively to solve the problem of district and communal roads. He directed huge funds to the construction, reconstruction and renovation of municipal and district roads. Minister! I have a question: What order of financial expenditures have been directed over the last 15 years to support local governments in the construction, reconstruction and renovation of municipal and district roads? Second question: How many kilometres of municipal and district roads were built and renovated in 2008 and in what order were the funds transferred to local governments for this purpose? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u188	Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u189	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Of course, the problem of local roads is huge and we face it, we measure it throughout the free period of Poland. The temperature of today's discussion also confirms this. Of course, except you didn't come up with anything new on this show. The difference is that our program, so-called. Schetinówki, perhaps it was not a program enough, even for sure, but a specific one, while you have introduced on an unprecedented scale in the history of Poland... It's not about the size of this program, it's about the size of fraud and the size of promises without covering. Let me give you an example. By regulation, you introduced the allocation of funds from this programme into different voivodships, confirming the sources of funding for this programme. We can already see that among others. In MON, this money is secret, just like these projects are secret, which is unverified. The next thing: for these 5 billion significant funds, 1.4 billions are to come from a national environmental fund, and they're not there. Two weeks ago, I received a reply from Minister Kowalczyk for a hearing on the financial plan. Written by: The current version of the national fund's financial plan for 2019 does not include expenditure on the modernisation of local roads, [[♪ The bell ♪]] because the bill was passed too late. And when was the budget adopted? This is... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u190	Mr Lech Kołakowski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u191	Dear Marshal, High Seym! Minister! This is a very necessary, very expected programme. All these measures must be deliberately, rationally spent, in order to give the possibility to many municipalities to develop. Minister! Several, several percent of the municipalities in our country are in a very difficult economic situation. Their budget does not allow the required part to be financed. Here I would like to ask you a question about the possibility of increasing funding, especially in those poorest municipalities that cannot afford this own contribution. What would be the possibility... Is there any way to use backup resources? I would like to remind you that in Podlaskie voivodship low profitability municipalities should be included among others. The municipality of Tłużs, the municipality of Hugs, as well as many other municipalities. I ask for a special slope over these poorest municipalities, for an even greater percentage of the funding. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u192	Thank you. Mr Marek Owa, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u193	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The local road construction programme is an important element and should, of course, continue. I wish you another 15,000. km of roads were renovated as during the reign of the Platform and the PSL, while I am concerned that in this program Małopolska was wronged. The fourth largest region, 3,300 thousand. The population, with half of the area in the mountainous area, has only the fifth allocation and the 11th allocation per capita. Ladies and gentlemen! It is hard not to think that the whole discussion today is a substitute topic. You are proud of the program from which the current meter of road was not built - and the election will not be built, because so far competitions have not even been decided on the division into specific tasks. [[Applause]] You cover up, you want to cover up this discussion about the collapse of the implementation of the national road and motorway construction programme. Minister! Why did you cancel, abandon the construction of the Zator ring road, the Nowa Sącz and Chelmc ring road, the reconstruction of the national road 94 in Olkusz, the cellar ring road? Why have you abandoned the construction of the S52 road or the S1 road, which has not yet been moved? Under the Platform's rule, more than 2,000 were built. km of roads, highways and expressways. And what is the pace of construction of roads under the PiS? [[♪ The bell ♪]] 100 kilometers, 300 kilometers a year. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u194	Mr Krzysztof Ostrowski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u195	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am a Member from East Wielkopolska, from Gniezno. approx. 300 km from Gniezno there is a small, beautiful, rich in forests and lakes of the municipality of Powid. The main transport base of our military aviation is there to build a weapons warehouse for the entire eastern NATO flank. We need a road that connects Powid to the nearest A2 motorway. The municipality is small, though noble, and she can't afford it. Minister! Are such situations foreseen in the Local Roads Fund? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u196	Mr Jerzy Gosievski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u197	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, The region of Warmia and Mazury is one of the poorest regions of the country. The worst roads are in the central part of the region, in the powiats: Węgorzewski, Giżycki, Kętrzynski, Piski, Mrągowski and Poczyński. In these powiats until 2018, the Starosts were people from PSL, possibly cooperating with the coalition PO-PSL. Until 2015, PO-PSL was in charge. Minister! In my opinion, it would be advisable to analyse the causes of such extremely fatal roads in the region of Warmia and Mazury, even though the coalition, which is now in total opposition, was then ruled. Minister! I would also like to ask you: What do you think is the cause of such an extremely fatal state of the roads in Warmia and Mazury? Did you consider that through, among other things. media communications inform the public about the causes of communication negligence in Warmia and Mazury and about the intentions of the Government of Law and Justice and their implementation? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The point is to get this information to every corner of Warmia and Mazury. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u198	Mr Marek Polak, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u199	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! We all agree that the Local Roads Fund Act is a very good and expected solution by local authorities. On the one hand, it offers huge opportunities for building and modernising district and municipal road infrastructure, and on the other hand it prefers and supports low-income municipalities, guaranteeing funding of up to 80%. Municipal and district roads are extremely important transport routes, which we all use every day. These are the roads that we get to work, schools, offices or commercial facilities. Therefore, they must be safe, friendly and comfortable for drivers. I know that the municipality can submit two applications to this fund and the county three. I would like to ask if there are also limits, which is the upper limit of the funding of the tasks carried out? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u200	Thank you. Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u201	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We all agree that the development of infrastructure is the basis for economic development. The Self-Government Road Fund is a good program for local governments, which has been expected for years. Minister! Thank you very much for the implementation and implementation of this programme, but I have a question. I'm talking about the possibility of preference when it comes to the landscaping. There's a lot of financial problems out there. The county of Tarnogóry, and I mean my county, which is one of the most indebted districts, has really very neglected road infrastructure. So-called. BeCeTka, the Bytom Central Middle Route, is also extremely needed, and we know that there are problems with its financing. Could this fund also be used to finance this very necessary road in order to discharge congestion? I have one more very important question. Due to the fact that Silesia is green, it is essential to build new hiking tracks as well as cycling routes. Can these funds also be used to achieve these objectives? How many applications can a local authority submit? I am talking about both the county and the commune. I'm asking for information. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u202	Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u203	High Izbo! The question should be asked to the government: Why do you not like the capital? I would like to assure you that Warsaw can be liked. There's even a song: here's where luck can be found, here's where the heart can be lost. You guys go crazy every day with a limousine after Novgorodska. Once a year you walk with nationalists across the Warsaw bridge. Every month you walked in Krakow Suburbs. Why wouldn't you want to add money from the state budget to the road infrastructure in Warsaw? You are users of Warsaw roads. Not only was Warsaw excluded, but all other voivodship cities. And yet, just recently we heard, I remember the statement of September 2018 how Patrick, the candidate for President, thanked Prime Minister Morawiecki for supporting Warsaw's plans. He even sailed and said that Prime Minister Morawiecki would support the construction of the 3rd and 4th subway lines. Today it turns out that Warsaw has been completely excluded from the Fund for Roads of Local Government. Why? You can improve this bill, you can allow Warsawans and Warsawers who, like all other citizens, are taxpayers so that the money from the state budget is invested in a capital that has important goals, important qualities [[♪ The bell ♪]] and should be supported by all Members. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u204	Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, as corrected. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u205	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Mr Jan Warecha misunderstood my statement. I praised the schetins and praised the government of Law and Justice for continuing this good program. It's worth building, it's shameful that you want to build them with the money that the army needs to equip. [[We're increasing resources.]] Let me remind you once again that PLN 0.5 billion you take from the MON budget and spend on concrete and asphalt, and with this money you can buy state-of-the-art fighters, two in a year. [[Applause]] [[But we're increasing resources for...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u206	Thank you very much. Now please speak to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Mr Rafał Weber. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u207	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am looking for Mr Szczerby because I wanted to tell you about Warsaw, but I do not see him. Warsaw can be liked. Yes, I like Warsaw and I want to confirm that. I also wanted to reply substantively, but I do not see the Member, and I will save time. There are many other questions from those countries who have stayed in the Chamber, for which I thank you very much, and I would like to address these questions. As regards the last issue raised by my previous speaker and this regret, these pretensions that the Ministry of National Defence is transferring 500 million PLN to repair roads on which it uses, because the army must move too, I would like to remind the High House that in 2007 and 2015 the government of the Civic Platform did not use 12 billion PLN from the budget of the Ministry of National Defence. And now there's a grenade of robes that 500 million will be used so that the army can ride Polish roads smoothly and safely. The same Polish roads will be able to drive, and use them, Polish society. [[Applause]] That is the answer, Minister, to the question that you raised in your last statement. We will be together with Minister Andrzej Adamczyk every time we accuse you and the ministers of the national defence of your government when such charges are brought in our direction. 12 billion PLN in 8 years you have not spent, despite such a duty, on the Polish army, on Polish defence. Count how many planes you could buy at the time. However, I do not want to focus solely on this statement, ladies and gentlemen, because there have been many questions about the limit of the programme and the funds transferred to the voivodships this year. I have an accurate, precise list, and it's available on the website. And so, in fulfilling many questions that have been asked by Members of the Law and Justice and by the opposition, I would like to read these figures, ladies and gentlemen. Regional Roads Fund in 2019, Voivodship: Dolnośląskie - over PLN 206 million, Kujawsko-Pomorskie - over PLN 250 million, Lubelskie - PLN 426 million. I take it that's why Mr Zmijan isn't in the gym either, because this is growth. by more than 340 million PLN, annually only, compared to previous years. To him, the truth is uncomfortable, and we can brag about it. Voivodship: Łódź - PLN 239 million, Małopolskie - PLN 298 million, Mazowieckie - close to PLN 0.5 billion, exactly PLN 497 million, Opolskie - PLN 94 million, Podkarpackie - PLN 270 million, Podlaskie - PLN 332 million, Pomorskie - PLN 208 million, Silesian - PLN 234 million, Świętokrzyskie - PLN 239 million, Warmińsko-Mazurskie - PLN 277 million, Wielkopolskie - PLN 376 million and Zachodniopomorskie - PLN 174 million. When we add to this the amount of PLN 500 million from the Ministry of National Defence, the funds at the disposal of the Prime Minister, we will receive nearly PLN 6 billion only in 2019. Compare the annual amount guaranteed by the Government of Law and Justice for local roads, with the amount paid here, was raised by Members of the Civic Platform, with the amount of eight years of operation of the programme that was created in the days of that Government. This is the amount of PLN 5.5 billion over 8 years, while only in 2019 under the Local Roads Fund is more than 500 000. PLN, because 6 billion PLN. Ladies and gentlemen! Numbers, you can't cheat here, you can't lie, numbers are facts, numbers are true. One call is coming to an end, and it will be announced in a moment, and the list will be presented. The second recruitment is conducted by voivodship offices. Another will be for 2020, a separate pool, of course, and will also be announced at the turn of July and August this year. I want you to assimilate these numbers, remember and every time we talk about the scale of support for local roads between 2008 and 2015, we said that it was PLN 5.5 billion at the time, and in 2019 it was PLN 6 billion. So it's not enough that more, it's just one more year. Ladies and gentlemen! Questions. Mrs Cicholska asked a question about the scale of the Self-Government Road Fund this year. It is the amount of PLN 6 billion, the Mazowieckie voivodship, as I said - PLN 497 million. There was a question by Mr Szmijan about the previous year, about the Prime Minister's decision to develop and allocate additional funds to local roads. That's what I've been talking about. The total amount of financial resources which in 2018 reached local roads under two programmes is PLN 1300 million. Mr Galla asked for a written reply. Such an answer will be given. Many of you have raised the issue of defence roads. I would like to reiterate that there has been no programme that would provide for the renovation of defence roads, which would provide for the spending of funds from the Ministry of National Defence. There are those who oppose it, but there are those who have signalled such a need and such a need is implemented within the framework of the Self-Government Road Fund. The poorer communities. Here I will use the example of the municipalities of Tuberlo and Hugs. Of course, by definition, the Fund for Roads of Self-Government, from our intended action, is intended on a larger scale, the percentage of support precisely for poorer self-governments. We particularly want to support these poorer local authorities, small municipalities, less prosperous districts, I am thinking about a larger scale of support - up to 80% in the implementation of tasks. This bill gives us the opportunity. Previous programs and this program of the Civic Platform government, and the program that has been implemented by our government for 3 years, have not given this opportunity, but we are not deaf to the signals of local government. We see their difficult financial situation. So that the Self-Government Road Fund provides for the possibility to finance up to 80% of the implementation of road investments in municipalities and poorer districts. Yeah, that's confirmed. Such opportunities are given by this law to our local government. Ladies and gentlemen! There was also a lot of political debate that some local governments, in which independent or government-related self-governments rule, would not receive funds. Ladies and gentlemen, the basis for receiving the funds is the submission of an application, the submission of an application which falls within the criteria set out in the call. And that's the only rule on which to make a decision. Only the criteria will determine such decisions. Roads don't have political colors. We want all voivodships and as many powiats and as many municipalities to benefit from this fund. We really care about this, only this condition of sine qua non, the first condition is to submit an application. We also have such signals that there are actually self-governments who, in order to ridicule this program, will not submit, will not participate in recruitments, but will do so in anger not to us, not to the Government of Law and Justice, but to their societies, to their inhabitants, because it is not we who drive on these roads, and if we drive, then from time to time, only these local communities will benefit from them. We ask the local government not to torpedo this program, but to participate in it. Ladies and gentlemen! I know why some Members of the opposition are reluctant to go to the Self-Government Road Fund. This dislike is not only expressed today, but was also expressed during the adoption of the law. I have here a printout of the vote on the bill that sets up the Self-Government Road Fund, and with great sadness and great regret I must say that 13 Members of the Civic Platform voted against, 113 abstained and there was not a single Member of the Civic Platform who would support this law, a law which, once again, guarantees an increase in funds for road construction, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Local government, the law, which this year transfers 6 billion PLN to recruitments. You didn't support this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u208	Thank you, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. [[Voivodship roads.]] Similarly, modern Members: 21 Members voted against this law. But I am convinced that she will serve Polish governments... Thank you, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: ...that she will serve to make the roads in Poland better and safer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u209	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! In Pomorskie voivodship the funding of annual tasks carried out by local governments of Pomorskie voivodship will be 208 005 792,30 PLN. The limit for the financing of multiannual tasks which may start this year will be PLN 51 236 499.34 for each subsequent year. Is it true that sources of funding for the Self-Government Road Fund are payments from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management (NFOŚiGW), subsidies from the state budget, including from part of the budget, which is administered by the Minister of National Defence, the State Forest State Forest State Farm and from the profits of single-member companies of the State Treasury and companies in which all shares are owned by the State Treasury? In addition, the fund can be supported by funds from the transfer of treasury securities, as well as voluntary contributions to the fund e.g. by companies in which the State Treasury owns shares or shares? The Ministry of Infrastructure announces that the money will be more than in the development programme of municipal and district road infrastructure. Is it true that the maximum grant could amount to PLN 30 million and reach between 50% and 80% of the value of the investment? Last question: Is it true that one local authority can submit up to two applications for funding?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u210	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The local government of Rzeszów is seeking funding for an investment that is important for the city and Podkarpacie: the southern ring road of Rzeszów. In 2017, the local government of Rzeszów applied for EU funds of PLN 277 million for this purpose. The Podkarpackie Voivodeship has not issued a permit to build this road due to the lack of all required documents. Then three concepts of the passage of this ring road were created. According to information provided by President Rzeszow, the Department of Development Strategy in the Ministry of Investment and Development has chosen, following an analysis of three options, a proposal submitted by the city authorities of Rzeszów. This concept assumes the construction of a 6-kilometer road from the street. Podkarpacka to al. Sikorski, which would pass through the settlements: Zwięczyca, Budziw and Biała, and the construction of a bridge with a length of 1000 m, which would cut through the flood of Rzeszów. I therefore ask the Minister: What is the Ministry's option of building the southern Rzeszow ring road, and what are the real possibilities for financing this investment from EU funds and the state budget?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u211	We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the report by the Commission for Energy and Treasury and the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the draft law amending the Act on Energy Consumption Information by Energy-using Products and on the control of the implementation of the programme for marking office equipment and certain other laws (prints no. 3314 and 3369). I ask Mr Wojciech Zubowski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u212	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, the Commission for Energy and Treasury and the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development at its joint meeting gave an opinion on the governmental draft law amending the Act on Energy Consumption Information by Energy-using Products and on the control of the implementation of the programme for marking office equipment and certain other laws, print No. 3314. Amendments were introduced at the committee meeting, but these were mainly editorial and legislative amendments. These were not substantive amendments. All amendments have been unanimously approved by those taking part in committee work. Similarly, the two joint committees unanimously supported the draft law presented. We therefore recommend that the project be further developed and adopted in the form presented. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u213	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Wiesław Krajewski on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u214	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present a position regarding the government draft law amending the Act on Energy Consumption Information by Energy-using Products and on the control of the implementation of the programme for marking office equipment and certain other laws, print No. 3314. This draft law amends the Law of 14 September 2012 on the provision of information on energy consumption by energy-using products and on the control of the implementation of the labeling programme for office equipment. The draft law implements in the Polish legal order Directive 2010/30/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 May 2010 on the indication by labelling and standard product information, energy consumption and other resources of energy-related products. On 2 August 2017, a new Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council No 2017/1369 of 4 July 2017 establishing a framework for energy labelling entered into force. The purpose of this Regulation is to simplify the regulatory environment for Member States and economic operators and to harmonise the application and implementation of energy labelling rules across the European Union. The Regulation clarifies and strengthens the current energy labelling rules and extends their scope, updates the energy label design and introduces a change in the scale of energy classes, establishes a two-module database of energy labelling products - a separate module for market surveillance authorities and a separate module for consumers, clarifies the responsibilities of individual operators, strengthens the rules on enforcement of obligations, clarifies the links between energy labelling and harmonised standards. The entry into force of the amendments proposed in the draft law will allow for the removal of legal and editorial doubts as to the current law and regulations of the European Union and thus contribute to raising citizens' confidence in the state, helping to establish business with regard to the proposed stable and clear market surveillance mechanisms, ensuring continuity of the control system for energy-using products and thus ensuring the correct application of the Regulation. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The legal provisions contained in this draft law aim to ensure the correct application of the provisions of the Regulation of the European Parliament of 4 July 2017 by aligning existing national and European Union energy labelling rules and ensuring the continuity of the functioning of controls in relation to the fulfilment of energy labelling requirements. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I recommend the adoption by the High House of a draft government bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u215	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski on behalf of the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u216	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, I would like to present the position of the club vis-à-vis this bill in print no. 3314 and 3369. It is no secret that the regulation has changed. 2 August 2017 entered into force Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council 2017/1369 establishing the energy labelling framework and repealing the Directive, which was in force or entered into force in 2010. And here we have a reference to the draft law which amends the Law of 14 September 2012. At that time there was a law which was also intended to put the matter of labelling in order, among others. serving us, customers or customers buying electrical equipment. Today, the amendment says that energy labels are being updated and energy classes are being changed, it is very important to establish a two-module base for energy labelling products, a separate module for market surveillance authorities and a separate one for consumers. However, it must be made clear here that the regulation of the European Council is directly applicable. Only the Member States are allowed to regulate control processes. This was also clearly prepared and implemented by the Government of the Civic Platform and PSL in 2012 by the Act of 14 September 2012. It is true that this project is really needed. It ensures the continuity and regularity of the energy labelling control system and the application of specific provisions that we as a Member State may include in this law. But it is also worth saying clearly and reminding who is subject to this process, who controls what product groups are controlled. Of course, this basic law of 2012, which we are amending, clearly defines this as in the European Council Regulation. The President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection is the monitoring body of the whole system. The main issues related to control are primarily subject to the Provincial Inspectors of Trade Inspection and to the President of the Office of Electronic Communications. These are the two control bodies. We have, ladies and gentlemen, 15 product groups under control. Fourteen groups are controlled by commercial inspectors. Let's say clearly that it's about household appliances, washing machines, dishwashers, air conditioners, vacuum cleaners, but also an important thing, an important element, a product of which are solid fuel boilers. This is more about energy efficiency, which is controlled by the Trade Inspection on labelling. We also have one product group controlled or monitored by the Electronic Communications Office - we are talking about televisions. Who is directly affected by this check? Ladies and gentlemen, about 7,000. sellers and around this 50 different entities, which indirectly will also be affected by this law. Of course, this also involves the costs that these control bodies have to bear in order to function efficiently. It is also clearly stated and adapted in this law, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's about stretching out for the next years. On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Club, I request that this law be adopted.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u217	Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz club15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u218	The Civic Platform will vote for this... [[Vice Marshal disables microphone, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u219	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u220	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear young people at the gallery! I present the position of the Kukiz Club15 on the draft law amending the Act on Energy Consumption Information by Energy-using Products and on the control of the implementation of the programme of marking office equipment and certain other laws, print No. 3314. The law is needed not only because we need to implement EU rules on labelling and standard product information on energy consumption and other resources for energy-related products. This is also important in order for users to be aware of how much a specific device consumes electricity, which in turn is important from an environmental point of view. The Act is of general technical nature. Updates the energy label design and introduces a change in the scale of energy classes. It sets out clearly the obligations of individual operators for the labelling of electrical energy-using equipment and strengthens the rules on the enforcement of those obligations. The draft law aims primarily at ensuring the continuity of control activities within the scope of the law by the entities authorised to do so. In emphasising the need for this regulation, attention must be paid mainly to its social and economic consequences. In the case of the former, the entry into force of the proposed regulation will allow for the removal of interpretation, legal and editorial doubts related to the current law and European Union legislation and thus contribute to increasing citizens' confidence in the state. As far as the economic impact is concerned, the contested law will help to establish business with regard to proposed, stable and clear mechanisms for market surveillance. However, it will not directly affect the functioning of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. As a result, Kukiz15 will support this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u221	Thank you. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u222	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Polish People's Party Club - the European Union of Democrats will also support this law, because it is a necessary regulation. This is about solutions that have been operating in Poland for many years, because since 2012 issues of marking devices, their energy efficiency, energy intensity are seen as very important from the point of view of the end user above all, because it is he who makes the decisions when buying what device he wants to have. The social impact of what was said here, climate protection, less energy intensity, less consumption of energy raw materials, but above all today, with energy poverty, because millions of Poles have problems with access to electricity due to lack of funding, it is important that they have the opportunity to make a decision that will somehow save money later, in operation. This law is to adapt to the European solutions that have changed for 7 years since the law in our country has been in operation, and we believe that this is the right solution. We will support any action that moves towards energy efficiency, electricity saving, because they are very important. This is easier when it comes to using energy, saving natural resources, because you just need less energy to use, less to produce it, and the final effect can be the same or better. That is why we support this solution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u223	Thank you. Now Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u224	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the Government's draft law amending the Act on energy consumption information by energy-using products and on the control of the implementation of the programme of marking office equipment and some other laws, print no. 3314. Of course, no one here has hidden that this law is really necessary, because it not only regulates the legal situation and adapts the Polish law to the regulation of the European Parliament and of the European Commission, but also is not so much administrative as social. Why? These rules on the labelling of electrical equipment, which have been in force since 2012, have certainly served the environment, because the consumer has a chance to determine the energy consumption of the individual equipment. It can make a responsible choice and purchase and be guided precisely to reduce its electricity bill, and as we all know, after the last steps these bills are very high. So these are both social and environmental issues, because less electricity consumption is automatically increasing the environmental impact. Therefore, there is nothing left to support this type of law. This bill, I hope, will come into force as soon as possible. The definition and clarification of the rules for controlling the labelling of these devices is also included in this Act, which clarifies the responsibilities of the institutions responsible for this. Therefore, the club Modern will vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u225	Thank you very much. The questions were raised by six ladies and gentlemen of the House. I'm setting a question time for one minute. The first question is asked by Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u226	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister. What's next with electricity prices? Because today's topic has a close connection to electricity prices. Today, these increases have been particularly affected by local governments. Self-governments have resentment and I do not hide that many self-governments are in trouble. Because these solutions - and they said there would be no raises this year - did not work. When will there be a solution? It's one question. And the second question is, what's next with electricity prices for the future? How do you anticipate the development of electricity prices next year? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u227	Thank you. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u228	Minister! The project provides for the financing of the tasks related to this law carried out by the Minister of Finance since that year - there are appropriate amounts listed - and by the monitoring and control bodies of the energy labelling system - since 2023. What's the difference? Another question. The European Commission had until 2 November. as the explanatory memorandum states, issue new delegated acts specifying the specific requirements for energy labelling. Did she? What have they changed or changed? And one more reflection. Energy labelling is an important standard of civilization. It is to be welcomed that the European Commission and the European Parliament have introduced them. I think this is a good step towards knowing the energy inputs that lead to the production of a given product, i.e. the so-called. carbon footprint, i.e. the CO2 units necessary for the issue of the product concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u229	Mr Piotr Pyzik, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u230	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the following question, Minister. What is the impact of the solutions contained in the new Regulation (EU) of the European Parliament and of the Council on the competitiveness of Polish energy-related equipment manufacturers? Is there an evaluation of existing legislation on energy efficiency improvements in Polish households? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u231	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Club Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u232	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law will change energy labelling regulations, and the biggest change for retailers and consumers will be the introduction of a new scale of energy efficiency of equipment. I just wanted to draw attention to the design of the art. 2a announcing that the Minister responsible for Energy conducts educational and information activities in this area. Does the Minister have a draft of this campaign yet? What will she look like and what action will be taken? Helping consumers become more aware of the energy efficiency of purchasing choices is a commendable initiative. I would just like to know if the measures taken in this area [[♪ The bell ♪]] actions will indeed contribute to the achievement of the intended objective. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u233	Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u234	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Regulation of the Council of Europe and of the European Parliament entered into force in 2017. How long do Member States have to implement these changes in laws, to bring national law into line with EU law? And tell me, have entrepreneurs already complied with this right? After all, these regulations operate directly, there is no need to implement this law. And please tell me whether we are introducing this only today, after 2 years of validity, the entry into force of this regulation, this amendment of the law, in fact in the field of information lost the Polish consumer, the Polish citizen here buying these devices, which are subject to some control regarding labelling. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u235	Mr Tomasz Nowak, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u236	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! 73,000, 123,000, 129,000. - is the expenditure which the Ministry of Energy will bear over the years to serve from the ministry's position this programme. I understand it's gonna be one job, two jobs, or that it's gonna be separated between individual officials. Second thing. There are certain costs that result from this law, and in terms of energy promotion, it also requires some funding. I don't see the sources of this funding. And then there's the third major thing. What about the regulation? I know this is out of scope, but this is a fundamental question of what about the regulation to stop energy prices from rising in 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u237	Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u238	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the following question. We are talking about labelling, that is, referring to consumers' awareness, citizens' awareness. Of course, that's the right direction. I would like to ask, however, how do you view the fact that there is also very clear and clear information to the consumer, not only regarding the fact that products are the better, the better they have energy efficiency, but also how it translates into actual costs. Sometimes it turns out that the product, which has theoretically very good energy efficiency, is so much more expensive, that the consumer, taking into account energy prices, is simply more profitable to buy a product less efficient, but the summa summarum cheaper in buying and operating. Do you do this kind of work? Have you thought about possibly extending the scope of the provisions introduced or possibly regulating them? A regulation? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u239	Mr Paweł Bańkowski, Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u240	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask the Minister on behalf of entrepreneurs, self-governments, when the Minister of Energy will finally sign a regulation to compensate energy prices. As we all know, on 1 January the provisions of the Act reducing excise duty entered into force, reducing the transitional fee. Today is April 12th and local governments still get high, by more than 60% higher in relation to the previous year, energy bills, even though they have applied energy-efficient solutions in local governments. And we still don't know when the Minister will sign this regulation. Please respond in writing, Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u241	Thank you very much. The answer will be given by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy, Mr Tomasz Dąbrowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u242	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll start by thanking all the clubs, because it looks like all the clubs will support this bill, considering that this is a good project, needed by all the customers and introducing solutions that will ultimately contribute to making rational decisions. Within the framework of all speeches, this project has been discussed in detail. In addition, I will add what product groups it concerns, because it did not sound exactly. These are: TVs, washing machines, refrigerators, dishwashers, vacuum cleaners, lighting equipment, ventilation systems, fans, water heaters, boilers, air conditioners, electric cookers and kitchen hoods, refrigerators, tumble driers and space heaters. In addition, I will explain what this new label will look like, which allows consumers to make rational decisions. The amendment of the law is based on the fact that we are adapting the provisions to the content of the new EU legislation, the regulation. Union legislation recalibrates labels which were marked with letters from D to A++ so that the energy class of products can be distinguished. Instead of the A++ mark, there will be the A, then the B, then the C, and so on. This will allow comparing products from a given product group among themselves and making the right decision. Turning to the questions that have been asked, I will start by answering the question about how the information on the label translates into actual costs. Well, the information on the label comes down to, among other things. the average annual consumption of the product concerned is given for each product group. On this basis, the consumer can compare the actual price of the product or the total cost of ownership of the product during its useful life by multiplying the difference in consumption between one product and the other product by the price of electricity that he pays at home and then multiplying for the number of years in which he expects to use the product. On this basis, it may decide whether a product is cheaper than another or whether it is more expensive. It may turn out that the product which has a higher price, de facto, as we will compare the total cost of its use during the period of use, has a lower price. Part of the questions concerned a side issue, i.e. current electricity prices. I would like to say that the prices of eclectic energy were regulated by a law adopted last year, and that is sufficient to keep these prices at a certain level. This law was amended in February this year, while the Minister of Energy's regulation, which is to be issued, is underway, among others. Today there is a meeting with representatives of local governments on how it is possible to help local governments in documenting ways so that they can implement this regulation more easily. This regulation is actually addressed to energy entrepreneurs, not to electricity consumers, because it is the entrepreneurs who are to have compensated the costs to which they have been obliged under the law. A separate issue is the question of the possible failure of energy companies to comply with the provisions of the Act, but this is subject to the provisions of the Act, inter alia. sanctions. The next question concerned the financing of control activities in 2023. Why is there no amount recorded in the expenditure rule in previous years, as is the case with the Minister of Energy? I am in a hurry to explain that in the previous law, i.e. an expenditure rule is also included in the current law, e.g. for control bodies, just until 2022. Therefore, there was no need to change the planned expenditure at that time, but there was a need to anticipate expenditure for subsequent years, i.e. from 2023. The next question concerned the acts to be issued by the European Commission in November. Indeed, the European Commission has not yet issued these acts. The work on them is not completed, so we're just waiting for it. We expect the Commission to complete its work on these files around the holiday. The question of including carbon footprint in the manufactured product. In this regard, discussions are held in various forums, mainly in the EU. So far they have not found a finale in some legislative act that would be presented for further work with the Council or Parliament. One of the questions concerned the impact on the competitiveness of Polish companies of the amendment of this law. This law is primarily intended to provide information to the consumer. In fact, there is no change in the competitiveness of companies. The way in which information is provided is changing, which is already being communicated today. Therefore, the product as it is, is still the same product, we provide the same information, only in a slightly different arrangement, so that the consumer has a greater ease of comparison with other products. Another question was the information-education campaign. These actions will indeed be carried out by the Minister of Energy, but it will only be possible to take them when all the acts of the European Commission, which will then be in force, will appear in order to be specific. The next question concerned time for implementation. A good observation was made that the Regulation entered into force as early as 2017. I am only in a hurry to explain that the regulation works directly, therefore the issue of implementation does not concern this act, because it acts in the national legal order, just like any national law. And what is currently being done is due to a revised way of labelling products and a certain modification in the control of compliance with these EU rules. Therefore, a possible question with the subtext for delaying implementation is not justified. As regards the question concerning the expenditure of the Ministry of Energy, funds were foreseen to finance a single post of operation of the Ministry of Energy related to this area, indexed by inflation of 2,5%. On the other hand, as regards the financing of the promotional measures themselves, such as carrying out cyclical educational and information activities aimed at consumers concerning changes in energy classes in labelling, cooperation with producers and energy-related products vendors in the implementation of the rescale of existing energy labels, and cooperation with the European Commission on the adoption of new delegated acts in respect of energy labelling requirements for product groups and for new product groups, money will be cyclically secured in the budget law for the ministry's activities in this area as soon as regulations are known on the basis of which the size of the tasks to be carried out can be determined. Once again, I wanted to thank all the clubs for supporting this law, because it is indeed a very necessary and useful solution for consumers and consumers to make wise, rational decisions, as a result of which, first, electricity consumption in Poland is rationalized, because without good information it is difficult to make the right decisions, second, consumers also gain a way to lower their bills. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u243	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u244	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This proposal introduces a new label model that the European Union has proposed. Energy labels indicate how much energy the device uses on a scale from A to G. Class A (green) means the lowest consumption of electricity and class G (red) is the largest. Today, more and more devices are classified in Class A. +, A++ and A +++. However, this energy efficiency classification is not transparent for consumers. Therefore, the new classification system will restore the original scale from A to G (without Class A) +, A++ and A +++). The new energy labels will be used in parallel with the old ones until they are fully withdrawn during the designated transition periods. What will be the transition period during which the two markings will be applied?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u245	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on National Property Resources and some other laws (Print No.3364). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development of Mr. Arthur Soboń to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u246	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the main objectives and objectives of the revision of the National Property Resources Act, which we are presenting to the High House today. We want the National Property Resources to be the land bank for the government's housing programme, an ambitious programme, a programme that this year assumes to launch 100,000. housing, a programme which, thanks to this amendment, will be a completely real programme. After this period of experience with the implementation of the National Property Resources Act, we would like to present some important changes. Firstly, we would like to give the possibility to acquire real estate by the National Property Resources from companies of the State Treasury. These are State Treasury companies in which all shares or shares belong to the State Treasury. There are 144 such companies, of which at least 75 have plots of 1629, which amount to around 20,000. ha, which can be used under the Living+ programme. In the case of this amendment, we have a guarantee, because the entire programme is a programme that takes place on the market, that these transactions between the parties, i.e. Treasury companies, the National Agricultural Support Centre, the Military Property Agency, will also take place on market terms. In short, the basis for this exchange between the state resources within this state-owned land bank under the housing programme will be an estimated operation which will actually reflect the costs of the property, with the principle that 10% These costs shall remain in the National Property Resources. In practice, this means that KZN is supposed to be a self-financing mechanism in the future, i.e. as part of the implementation of the scheme, housing+the land bank, which is the National Property Resources, will not need additional funding from the state budget. At the same time, by extending the list of those who give us this real estate resource - in a moment I will say a few sentences about the resource itself - we exclude those entities that have been in this law so far, and after the amendment we would like to see them come out of this mechanism, where we are importing land useful for housing to the National Property Resources, and the National Property Resources acquires these land to this resource. As part of this amendment, we want to disable all the land owned by the State Forests. The State Forests will not be an element that will increase the supply of land under the Living+ programme. The National Property Resource, like today, will be able to distribute this land in perpetual use, will be able to sell it, but will also be able to create special purpose companies, i.e. will be able to import this land to other than local government units of entities. These are entities connected with the State Treasury, with the state legal person, of course with the local government - these are companies whose shareholders are exclusively the State Treasury or other state legal entities, but also companies with the majority participation of companies whose shareholders are exclusively the State Treasury or other legal persons, and companies which manage investment funds. These are companies which are always directly or indirectly controlled by the State Treasury, but at the same time they are companies which use capital funds that can be used on the market to build a wallet such as 100,000. The apartments, because I'm going to tell all of you who are interested, that's $100,000. housing requires the involvement of more than PLN 30 billion in capital. Of course, it's not budget capital. As you know, the Living+ programme is not a programme implemented by the state budget. This is a programme in which the resources of the country which the Polish state has, we combine, building a competitive advantage and increasing the supply of land under housing, and thus finally the supply of housing, i.e. the number of these apartments for Poles, to the number expected by Poles, especially expected by those who cannot afford this apartment today, and who have to borrow a mortgage on this apartment, which otherwise not everyone gets. Then I will say one sentence, what is the numerical advantage specifically on the real example of giving keys to apartments in Gdynia on the market in relation to the living+ programme. Finally, when it comes to trading these properties, when we want, for example. We have a guarantee of a percentage of the usable area of the apartments that will be rented, also for institutional rentals with access to the property and without access to the property. Those two forms of implementation of the programme are still in force. The programme we announced in 2016 was a programme in which we proposed standard rent in the Act. As you know - I have very detailed data and if any of you would be interested, as the market changed from 2016 to 2019, I am prepared to say about these changes - these are changes that cause, firstly, a lower supply of land and much higher prices of land, the increasing costs of building materials that are necessary for the implementation of these investments, also rising labour costs. In short, the market model and functioning in this market have changed a lot. We're adapting the program to this. Instead of standard rentals, we have introduced a mechanism that has been in operation since 1 January this year, a mechanism of payment for rent, which allows for a real reduction in the costs of such an investment. Finally, the last issue that we are changing in this law, which is how this information will affect us, so that it is clear and that after the analyses we carry out, it is possible to obtain from them the land necessary for housing and not any other land, because today the construction of the law made it possible to receive information about 500,000. parcels, of which 1% was suitable for the housing programme That's about 500 parcels. If we were to accept, if we could show you this business model, which is part of the scheme of living+, that the price of the apartment in the case of a 55-metre apartment, e.g. in Gdynia it is 372 thousand. zł, the total cost of repayment of the loan for 30 years for such a family would be 652 thousand. zł. If we accept - and we are talking about a real example, in Gdynia in a moment residents will receive keys - PLN 1375 in case of a 55-metre apartment for a period of 30 years, i.e. PLN 25 per square meter, the family will buy this apartment for an amount of 495 thousand. zł. From the point of view of the family that we are helping in this programme, savings are exactly 157 thousand. zł., i.e. the apartment is 24% It's cheaper than on the market. [[...from credit?]] If the family meets the income criteria set out in the Rent Payment Act, the cost of buying out the apartment is reduced to 423 thousand. zł. Savings is then 228,000. zł, i.e. the apartment is 34% cheaper. For today, as part of the National Property Resource, the real estate stock that we acquire from individual owners, we have 115 locations that give us a total of 63 465 apartments. As part of PFR Real Estate after final investment decisions we have 28 thousand. apartments. By the middle of this year there will be over 50,000 of them. The amendment of this law and the launch in the second half of the year of the land from the National Property Resource will mean that, as announced by the Prime Minister, we will actually give 100,000 to the implementation this year. The apartments we announced. I would like to explain to you what it means to prepare the ground that needs to be analysed. In order for the land to be financed on the market - after all, that is what all of us, including us, are doing as part of the housing+ programme - we need an in-depth legal analysis, a financial analysis and an analysis of the demand for these apartments. Sosological studies, geological studies, sometimes even remediation, are often needed. If there are trees there, dendrology is often needed. In short, each of these activities within the framework of... I had it written down, and I don't want to waste any time searching, but I'm ready to show you exactly how each plot is being studied. It lasts over a month. Several experts from various fields carry out comprehensive due diligence so that they can be fully accountable to the High Chamber to the extent that they meet all the criteria that must be met by the parcels on which the apartments can be successfully located. These apartments must be competitive towards the apartments that are currently operating on the market. We have the market today, and I want to make this clear, which is the market at its peak. We are in a situation where really a record number of apartments are being built on the market. Last year there were 185 thousand of them. I want to compare this with the effects of the programs that have been implemented so far. It seems to me that it is important to show you the difference between the supply programme, which combines the various resources of the state in order to implement a large housing programme, to eliminate the housing relief and the deficit of housing that we have in Poland today, and the demand programmes which, in a situation of high demand for housing, did not fulfil their role. Why am I talking about the fact that we've reversed the philosophy of demand-to-supply thinking? To show you how he acted e.g. Living for young people. During the period during which the programme worked, developers gave the following number of apartments: 69 723 apartments in 2014, 86 498 apartments in 2015 and 85 497 apartments in 2016. Without the demand program, i.e. already in 2017, it was 105 401 apartments. In 2018, construction started, because that's what I'm talking about. 131,627 apartments. In the first months of this year the construction of more than 30,000 began. apartments, which means an increase of 8% with a piece than a year-on-year. We have another record year in housing. We increase the supply of land through the State Treasury land. We built prefabrication standards - the number of apartments built in prefabrication increased in Poland year to 12 times. It is less laborious and very modern technology. We have created model design solutions. We've already done a dozen competitions for the urban-architectonic concept. These competitions are always attended by the best architects from all over Poland. Our housing estates, our investments, also those to which the keys will be in the moment, and those dozens of thousands of apartments that are currently being designed, will be the state-of-the-art high-standard housing estates and very good location. Believe me, I didn't really believe that either. I think it would be a good time for me to show you on the map of the land today owned by the National Agricultural Support Centre or the Military Property Agency, how good these locations are and how great the initiative of the present government was to use them for housing. These are the needs of Poles. I don't think anybody's gonna question that today. I hope the entire High House will support this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u247	The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Bogdan Rzońc, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u248	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On 20 July 2017, the National Property Resources Act was adopted. It was created as a result of the adoption of the National Housing Programme by the Council of Ministers on 27 September 2016. Of course, it has very good goals, among others. increasing access to housing for people with income currently preventing them from acquiring or renting housing or increasing the ability to meet the basic housing needs of people at risk of social exclusion due to low income. Ladies and gentlemen, no one can challenge these objectives, but during the implementation of the National Property Resources Act there have been some problems, so today we are updating this law. I think that the argument put forward by your minister is very appropriate, because among the important changes contained in this bill will be changes that will contribute to achieving the objectives set for the construction of housing. The solutions proposed in the Act are based on the following assumptions: the transfer to the Treasury of the State's right of ownership or perpetual use of State-owned legal persons, such as individual companies of the State Treasury, constitutes a proportionate measure of implementation of the Government's scheme: the transfer of the property to the stock by the State Treasury company will be made for compensation which will take into account and adequately secure the property interests of the companies; in economic terms, the State Treasury is the owner of property which, in a civil sense, is owned by single-member companies of the State Treasury; constitutional protection of State property, so-called. public property, at the moment is far weaker than the protection of other categories of property, including private property. The adoption of these assumptions and the proposed specific solutions is justified by the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, the current case law of the Constitutional Tribunal and the views of the representatives of the doctrine. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I propose that we continue to proceed with this bill. I invite Members to the committee's meeting on Wednesday 24 April. Then we will deal with this project in detail. As a representative of the Law and Justice, I strongly support the bill submitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u249	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Club Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u250	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, Listening to you, I feel like you're living in some kind of parallel reality. Everyone knows that living + is a complete failure, and you represent it as a great success. This reminds me as the lively return of Prime Minister Beata Szydło from Brussels, when it was a great success to vote 27:1. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! The lack of functioning of the National Property Resources Act of July 2017 is proof of our, PO, rations. At the time, I presented the platform's position in relation to the law establishing the National Property Resources. Time has confirmed that the speech is correct. So? Turns out M+ is a complete disaster. It's only a pity for the people who believed you and were hoping for a cheap apartment. Even the co-author of this program, Mr. Barszcz, stated that the program's assumptions were unrealistic and that the bill was dead. The bill is another PiS legal bubble that needs to be changed thoroughly, so now you're updating it. The President of BGK Real Estate Mr Barszcz also confirmed what we warned about: for 2.5 thousand. For m2 it is impossible to build an apartment taking into account the price of land and weapons, as promised by the government. You admit your mistake and plan rent payments. For this purpose it was not necessary to create, as it was for the Polish People's Republic, a state entity, KZN. Besides, those rent payments didn't work out. Somehow you can't see the great success of this show. Your cheap apartments aren't that cheap, e.g. In Sopot, this formula was abandoned because the apartments built by the municipality have a lower rent. You gave Poles cheap apartments from the M+ program. There is no way that the National Property Resources will build 1 million apartments by 2030, as you promised. That was also confirmed by the president of BGK Real Estate. We then supported your KZN law despite many reservations, because we support every form of housing acquisition. The goal was right, but the records were so controversial that the Living+ program failed. It is a pity that the continuation of the housing programmes of the previous government, the PO-PSL government, was abandoned because they gave 1.2 million apartments in the years 2008 to 2015. I understand that you are measured by everything that was good in the time of the previous government, but housing policy should be over-cadence, because only then does it give a real increase in the number of apartments. This amendment provides for the acquisition of land from the State Treasury and from single-member companies of the State Treasury. These companies will have to submit a list of their sites to KZN, and he will decide to take over them. I fear that this amendment may destroy some state-owned Treasury companies because it will take away the land that may be necessary for them to carry out their business. The project provides for the immediate acquisition of land and premises belonging to the State Treasury, currently managed by local governments, military agencies, agricultural agencies, Polish Post and PKP, throughout the country. As a Civic Platform, we promise local governments that all areas that will be taken away from the elders will be returned in the future term of the Sejm. The next change is to take over the land of the National Agricultural Support Centre and the Military Property Agency. In the event of their disposal, 90% values return to the owner and 10% Stays in the National Property Resources, as the Minister said. The source of the land is to be the resources of the Military Property Agency, KOWR and companies of the State Treasury, which gives together, ladies and gentlemen, 19 330 ha. Is this the money in this amendment? About taking over the land? Next item of the amendment. It is about eliminating the maximum rent rates, releasing the rent, i.e. introducing their market value. There were supposed to be housing for the poor, and here they're going to be commercial, with the rents released. Next shift. KZN will be able to sell apartments, not just rent, which means he will become an ordinary developer, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the ground gets free.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u251	Thank you very much. Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u252	You mean come back to the commune. Despite many reservations about amending the National Property Resources Act, the Platform Club... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u253	Thank you, Member. Thank you very much, Member. [[Couldn't you just let me finish?]] You had five minutes. Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u254	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I will start with a quote from the classic Polish film, entitled: What are you gonna do to me when you catch me? And the answer is: Very good. Report to the committee, and maybe you'll get a reward. Minister! To be honest, listening to your speech, all these assumptions, statistics, I really feel like I'm living here in Barei's movie. I will quote the titles of the films: "There is no rose without fire," "What will you do to me, how will you catch me?", the famous TV series about housing: "Alternatives 4" and finally classics over classics: "Mis." [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Investment and Development Artur Soboń: Paweł, something original.]] This is original, Minister. The fact is, what we hear here is mental aberration, not to say cool. It turns out that it is necessary to adopt a law on the basis of which companies of the State Treasury will be able to dispose of property for the newly created, successive companies in order to make housing more efficient. I feel a little like the one who said the key to the clipboard would be one to pick up, not the whole committee. However, I understand that these are the rules of the game today, so the state of the ruling party built the housing system. So I have to ask the question: What is the effectiveness of this system? How many apartments have been specifically built since 2016, since when did this system appear? There was talk of 1 million apartments. That's one thing. Secondly, recently I spoke to one of the notaries who said that the price of the apartment, for example in Wrocław, is already about 8 thousand. zł per m2. Therefore, another question arises: How do you want to build, if there is to be 2.5 or 3 000? Uh-huh. Uh-huh. Uh-huh. Is that even possible because of the price? Another aspect. I often meet with self-government officials who pay attention to a matter and say this: Mr President, there are no hands to work in the construction sector. Many tenders are cancelled, translated into a more indeterminate future, because there is no one to carry out these construction projects. So the question arises: What exactly did the Government of Law and Justice do - here I am talking about a comprehensive approach - to encourage the return of two-three million Poles who have left Poland since the entry into the European Union in search of a better life and sometimes just bread? We're running out of hands today, and even if you're willing to accept even the most interesting solutions... We must accept these solutions. So that the program can somehow move from the swamp, from the swamp it fell into, you have to accept these solutions. But the question is, what's next? What exactly did you do to get young people here to build these apartments? So, Minister, I really have a big problem here, because this is probably one of the most extreme models of socialism. Turns out, though, you can't build as cheap as somebody invented it by coffee. You can't build it for $2.5,000. for m2, and even now it turns out to be more interesting - after all, it is socialism - that we need to introduce payments into the rent. So it's about the next bill. How many of these bills are there gonna be? Is the Polish State supposed to function in such a way that everything is to be regulated by law? [[And with a surcharge.]] The Treasury companies will pass the land by law, then there will be a second law relating to the payment of rent, and then there will be a third law, so that something can be done. People loved, after all, these companies of the Treasury - and here the reservation: excluding companies of strategic importance for state security - should simply be privatized, should operate on the free market. If e.g. KZN will want to acquire the property, please, let it acquire. Meanwhile, there must be companies of the State Treasury, and thus - positions: directors, presidents, etc., which means further blowing up the state apparatus. I started with a quote and I will also end with a quote, this time with a movie "Bear: Hey, young Junaku, fight sorrow and fear. After all, on this sand in 30 years it may be clear and simple, wide as the sea Łazienkowska Route. Thank you. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development Artur Soboń: You could have sung.]] [[Five from the knowledge of quotes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u255	Marek Sawicki, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u256	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister Soboń! As much as I agree with my previous speakers, I won't mind you, because I'll be honest with you that the subject is serious and difficult. But as an experienced Member, one thing worries me: " Here we are 30 years later. 30 years ago we were making changes in Poland towards rejecting the primacy of the state over private property and we have a situation in which today the state wants to regulate many elements of our life, our activity again. We have a situation in which the companies of the Treasury will pass over, take over - you say they were buying back - and selling their land to the National Property Resources. I am so quietly analyzing the state Treasury companies, especially those from the agricultural sector, supervised by the Minister of Agriculture, and I will tell you that the situation in these companies looks bad. As of today, I don't know a company that would have a positive financial result in the past year. So I understand why this tendency for the National Property Resources to buy back real estate from companies of the State Treasury. After all, somehow the financial results of these companies will have to be saved. It will therefore be possible to buy back. You also said that the bill shuts down the transfer in the future or the purchase of the land of the State Forests. I have a question because the press recently wrote about this: How many hectares of State Forest land have so far been transferred to developers or national resources, whether sold or transferred, or in any other form made available? How many acres were there and why it is now the decision to exclude State Forests from all this. A few weeks ago, we adopted a bill in the Sejm to end perpetual use. I thought that there was some internal agreement and coherence in the government's activities, and I see that in this law again this formula for land management and later housing built with the participation of above all state entities will continue through the possibility of selling or transferring in perpetual use. So what, perpetual use is still the form that the government will prefer? There's really a lot of questions, things that I think the committee's gonna have to clear up. However, regardless of my doubts, I think that any form of housing support is good, but the question is whether this is the best one. I hope that in the committee, in the second reading, we can clarify this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u257	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u258	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the government draft law amending the Act on National Property Resources and some other laws. High Izbo! The purpose of this draft law, as declared by the government, is to implement the legal framework related to the new approach to the implementation of housing investments within the Within the framework of these assumptions and within the framework of this law, the procedated provisions are intended to provide an incentive to dynamicise investment procedures. And what is important in the case of this regulation, the government declares that it will no longer violate the grounds for rational decision-making by investors, which is happening, as we all know, in relation to those provisions which have so far been proposed by Law and Justice. The Act provides for a number of solutions whose main objective is to increase the supply of land which could be used by the National Property Resources. It was also proposed not to apply the measures contained in the Act in order to build apartments with normal rent. The Act also provides for the possibility of bringing real estate into companies with the participation of entities other than local government units and their associations, but according to the declaration set out in the Act it is to be entities controlled by the State Treasury. In addition, the draft includes provisions to clarify certain provisions concerning the management of residential property, proposals to modify the composition of the supervisory board, the appointment of KZN's President, as well as some facilitations for perpetual books, mortgages, including geodetic issues for KZN. The government also wants to complicate the lives of the residents of small real estate by moving the border from seven to three properties in the definition of such real estate. Of course, it is impossible to address all the proposals, because the formula of this debate does not allow for this. We'll probably talk about it at the committee meeting. However, Minister, you cannot ignore certain facts that are basically crucial to this decision. First of all, the apartment+ programme did not work and had no right to operate. The solution was not possible. As a result, not only have new apartments not been built, but - as we read in the explanatory memorandum presented to the High House and we find in the opinion of the Housing Council - the solutions adopted by the PiS contribute to halting the activities carried out under the Living+ programme. Minister, this program just didn't have the right to succeed. Those were promises that were uncoverable. In the meantime, all you had to do was listen. us when we pointed out all these threats and doubts. If the Law and Justice, Minister, wanted to cooperate, maybe today we'd be giving up the apartment behind the apartment. And that's the void. And that is why it is not surprising that, when assessing the solutions so far, the following conclusion has been put forward - I quote here, because it is very interesting: the legal instruments provided for in the Act have proved insufficient to efficiently transfer land for the realization of housing investments. Most of the properties were not useful for the implementation of KZN's statutory objectives. No interested party came forward to serve as a housing operator. Minister, if we compare these facts, this concrete information with what the Minister has just been polite to present here in the High House, it will turn out that we have two parallel realities - the reality of the Minister, where everything is going great and everything, and the reality of the fact that nothing is really going, and this programme that you have proposed, is simply not working. But what I'm trying to say is that I'm not satisfied with the fact that this scenario we were talking about when we were investigating the bill. I would prefer, Minister, that these apartments be actually built and that the Poles have a place to live, because this is a fundamental problem. Minister, I encourage you, however, to take this honestly and to offer reliable solutions, to listen to the opposition, not to offer such a sausage which turns out to be indigestible at the end. Minister, you've been complaining about the rising prices of parcels, materials, work, etc., but this is, uh, sorry about the colloquialism, your work. You are proposing such solutions here, and in the Ministry of Finance they are planning how to charge Poles with new taxes. You've already implemented 30 of them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] over the last three years. That's why I hope, Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u259	Thank you very much. Eight ladies and gentlemen joined the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u260	...that the government itself will answer the question of which direction we should go, and at the committee meeting it will give us its answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u261	I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. As the first Mr Michał Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club. Your envoy isn't here. Mr Paweł Bańkowski, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u262	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The Act of 20 July 2017, which created the National Property Resources, was intended to increase the supply of flats at moderate prices and rents, using the property of the State Treasury. Unfortunately, this bill turned out to be a total failure of the PiS government. Questions to the Minister: Is it true that most of the properties included in the lists submitted to the National Property Resources by the elderly and selected State Treasury agencies were not useful for fulfilling statutory purposes? Is it true that so far to the National Resources No entity came forward - a company governed by commercial law, a cooperative, a natural person engaged in an economic activity, interested in performing the functions of a housing operator? Is it true that the solutions proposed in this law do not guarantee that the rates of rent in apartments built under the scheme will not be lower than market prices? And how many of the promised millions of apartments did the Government of Law and Justice give in 2016, 2017, [[♪ The bell ♪]] 2018 and 2019? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u263	Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u264	Minister! I appreciate your enthusiasm and commitment, it's valuable, but I'm already looking at a lot of reserves for propaganda. And here's a great expression: apartments dedicated to realization. Congratulations on the deadline. I'd rather hear how many apartments were actually given to customers to live in. And here's the key question: how much did you actually build from the ground up, from the ground up, build the apartments in the program, and give them to people? Because so far, the network reports none. I'm asking for an answer. Here's another thing. Please do not make the National Property Resource, which is to be a state land bank, a pro-pop who is to be exempt from all taxes and public danin type fees in perpetual books or in a state geodesic centre. This is the revenue of the local government, we're talking about a state geodesic resource. Every Kowalski has to pay the 30 or 150 zlotys, but the state [[♪ The bell ♪]] The land bank is not - the grandfather is a prosciutto. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u265	Mr Piotr Pyzik, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u266	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The creation of the National Property Resource has encountered a number of problems that we will try to resolve with this amendment. One of the problems, which is very little mentioned, and the ordinary Pole is probably completely unknown, was the obstruction from parts of local government units. There have been cases of transmission of information showing only one plot or mainly parcels located under roads and surface waters. There were also many cases of exceeding the statutory deadline. In this way some local politicians associated with total opposition tried to torpedo the government program. In this connection, I have a question: Will the government publish information on how many and which heads of local government units are affected by the bill? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u267	Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u268	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! In the explanatory memorandum of the bill, I read that the aim is to increase the supply of land, which could potentially - I stress - be used by the National Property Resources. I have a question: Is the purpose of this law to raise land to the stock, to take it to local governments, businesses, companies and other entities, or is it to solve housing problems? What's the most important thing here? I think collecting land, if you don't have a good idea how to use it, is a bad goal. And I have a question: how much land does the National Property Resource have today, what is the amount? And how many of these lands have an investment project prepared? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] And in writing, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u269	Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u270	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are debating today the amendment of the National Property Resources Act. It seems that the Act adopted in July 2017 was not as refined and as good as you have ensured, since we are now introducing additional solutions to implement it efficiently. No one is against the construction of apartments, however, the program of living+. Its implementation and the entire bill leave much to be desired. Therefore, I would like to ask you: Can you describe what the achievements of the living+ programme are today? Because I see you're missing the truth. How many apartments have been built, and how many people have benefited from this program? How many apartments have been put into service e.g. in the City of Life and in the City of Bielsko-Biała? Does the implementation of this programme fulfil your assumptions and forecasts? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u271	Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u272	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We support any government action that could increase the number of apartments built because we realize that housing is a basic good. But I wanted to ask you who is responsible for the total failure of the program. Are those ministers who received the prizes? You gave Poles cheap apartments from this program. It is a pity only for those who believe you - they are waiting for an apartment, and they have been deceived. Did the ministers receive these awards for this programme? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u273	Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u274	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Two questions. One relates to the number of apartments already put into service for citizens. I would like to clarify the question in my position: How many apartments were planned to be given, e.g. in 2017 and 2018, how much was originally planned and how much was paid? That's one question. The second question is this: Did you think about releasing KZN economically so that it could simply acquire land from companies of the State Treasury, from private entities, so that we would not have to meet here again in 2 or 3 months' time and proceed to another amendment of the law in order to enable KZN to acquire for example. land from any other entity? A little more freedom, a little more freedom and a little more faith in KZN, and may also breathe a little wind into its sails to finally build. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u275	Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u276	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the following questions, Minister. First, how many have the National Property Resources acquired so far on the basis of the rules that exist, how many have been acquired? Second: Was something built on these lands within the framework of the housing +, or wasn't it built, and if it wasn't built, then why? Thirdly, on what do you base your belief that if you acquire more land, it will be built, since perhaps there are other mechanisms and reasons why these apartments on land already acquired are not being built? Maybe the new ones won't build on them either? And finally, unless I overheard you say there's a hundred and tens of thousands of apartments under construction. I would ask for clarification: one hundred and tens of thousands of apartments in the country are being built, developers are building, communities are building, individual people are building. How many of these apartments are built based on this program, tell me. Tell me the exact number: How many apartments have been built so far based on the programme?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u277	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u278	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! However, I am impressed by the government's certain restraint. Well, the Minister said that several thousand apartments have already been designed. You might as well have said that 100 or 150,000 were designed. The apartments and no one would resent it. So that there is a certain abstinence, worse with this construction. And here, Minister, I have a question: How many apartments have been given on the basis of the program of the Bielsko-Biała, Cieszyn, Pszczynie, Żywiec and the counties of Bielsko, Cieszyn, Pszczyński and Żywiec? I'd really like an answer. And the other thing. We have such, I would say, in Poland the problem is, however, that construction plots, on which buildings can be built, allow to live up to 80 million people. And now the question is: Has the Ministry analyzed whether there is any way to implement an impulse that would enable building? [[♪ The bell ♪]] On what's already...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u279	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u280	...not acquiring new land and building apartments in different towns? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u281	Mr Artur Soboń now has the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u282	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A few things that need to be explained. Regardless of how these questions were asked, there is always a desire on the government's side to answer them precisely, so that Members, including Members of the opposition, are fully aware and satisfied that they are participating in an important government programme, that is, in the housing programme of Law and Justice. There are two types - Mrs Chmiel, you must listen to me now - two parts of this programme. [[Oh, I'll be able to straighten it out.]] Well, there's the capital part that we talked about here, and you were talking about normal rents, about the lowest rents that are in municipal construction or in rent construction. For these investments under the programme we have funds, 6 billion PLN by 2025, which is owned by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, and here in agreements with local governments there are more than 18 thousand. apartments. And that's the answer to your doubt. Of course, this is about the weakest and there is no possibility of access to property, while in the investment part of the programme there is the possibility of access to ownership. I would have to tell Mr Grabowski the whole business model, then he would understand that he had nothing to do with socialism. And those questions that were here...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u283	He's already gone. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development Artur Soboń: One sentence, then. ...when someone told me how much the government gave up their apartments. Well, the government doesn't build housing. If anyone doesn't understand this program, I'll be happy to explain it in very detail on the committee. The housing government does not build, create the conditions for the development of housing, so that these apartments are actually as much as possible, and above all that they create apartments for those who today do not have a chance to live, and really this is 40% young Polish families. So don't underestimate the effort we're making right now. For Mr Sawicki, we did not take any land from the State Forests for housing. To Mr Suchon - we will talk about the advantages and disadvantages, for example. small housing communities. There are some advantages, for example. in agreement with the renovation, for other solutions, so we can talk about this, of course, what precise regulation should be here. You'll give back the land you took. Well, there's something I shouldn't even be quoting because we're not taking anything. This is, like I said, the land we're gonna take for a fee. Secondly, when we talk about the State Treasury's land, it goes from the State Treasury to the State Treasury, so nothing, the Civic Platform, you will not have to give back. I would like to reassure Mr Pyzik that cooperation with local governments is very good. We always work well together, as a government, with the local government, and we hope for this very good cooperation also in the implementation of the "Location+" programme. Mr Wilczyński encouraged me to tax the transfer from pocket to pocket. I don't think that's a good idea. [[It was about the survey fees.]] As far as all your questions about details are concerned, I can tell you exactly where you are after the location and at what stage this is at. Today we are on the land of the National Property Resources and on the land of PFR Real Estate, where the keys are already given, where we have housing in construction, where we have apartments designed, where we have final investment decisions of TFI and where we have conclusions for these final investment decisions. I even wanted to give you all these locations a point by point, which I would probably have done in the next 11 minutes... [[But actually, actually.]] ...if I read them quickly, but if Mr Święcicki endures, we will do so at the committee meeting, and I will gain in the eyes of the marshal as I limit myself to this brief answer to your questions. Thank you very much and I encourage this discussion at the committee's meeting, and at the same time thank you for supporting all the clubs in the further process of this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Minister. [[Corrigendum. I'd like to correct, Mr. Marshal.]] I would now like to say hello to the Wałbrzych group, from Świdnica and from around here with Mrs Wiesława Glinka. We welcome you very much. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Marshal, my name has come up. I'd like to correct.]] That's okay, that was the answer to your question. [[But you have a duty to let me speak.]] The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u284	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This project includes solutions for the smooth implementation of the. Accommodation+. The aim is to increase land resources that can be used for housing purposes by the National Property Resources (NZN). This amendment is a clear proof of failure to implement the flagship postulate of the governing party, namely the Living+ programme. In a recent reply to my interpellation, Minister Soboń informed me that in the Opole region investment activities currently include one housing investment, which is in preparation for a total of only 77 apartments. So what is the government's proposal to implement this programme to a minimum? What land (of what total area) will the KZN be able to obtain on the basis of this amendment?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u285	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm submit a draft law amending the Act on National Property Resources and certain other laws, contained in print No. 3644, to the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy for consideration. [[May I have the floor, Mr. Marshal? My name came up.]] [[The voice from the hall: You heard it wasn't.]] If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. [[Why are you disobeying the rules, Marshal?]] Dear Member, the Minister answered your question. [[But he made a mistake, which is why I wanted to correct it. Why do you allow only members of your party, not others, from the opposition?]] Thank you very much. I'm declaring a time-out. 2.30 p.m. [[A little honesty, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 minutes 10 hours 14 min 35]] I'm reopening the session. The Sejm Bureau submitted a proposal for changes in the composition of the Sejm Secretaries-Print No 3367. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. Formal applications shall be made. Member Urszula Augustyn, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u286	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm filing a formal motion. Well, in front of the whole of Poland, ladies and gentlemen, there is a spectacle of humiliation of teachers. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I am not going to talk about the next appearances of this spectacle and the derogatory dignity of man, the derogating dignity of the teacher of the statements of the politicians of Law and Justice, because it is just a shame. But what I'm trying to say is that the script of this show is written by the government, and only the government can act today to get back to the negotiating table and talk about what teachers have been asking for all over the country for months. I therefore submit a request for a recess, Mr Marshal, and I ask that the Prime Minister personally inform the High House and, through the High House, the whole society, how and at which point he intends to negotiate with the teachers, [[♪ The bell ♪]] What kind of negotiation proposal he has prepared and when he takes them seriously. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u287	Thank you. In this case, at this point, the Prime Minister is asking for the floor, right? Yes, Prime Minister. Prime Minister Beata Szydło. There you go. [[Applause, bustle in the hall]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Is it due or not?]] [[Only the Prime Minister can, not the Deputy Prime Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u288	Mr. Marshal!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u289	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u290	... High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me put it in a few sentences... [[In what mode?]] ...I'm going to present to you the situation that is at the moment with regard to talks with teachers. [[There's no talking.]] We've been talking to trade union representatives for weeks. [[When was the last time?]] An agreement has been drawn up which has been signed by the trade union.Solidarity. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Shame.]] [[Voice from the room: scandal.]] Among other things, this agreement proposes an increase in salaries this year once again for teachers. Since 2018 we have been implementing a teacher raise programme. In 2017, we unfreezed the teaching salaries that were frozen by the Platform and PSL in 2012. [[Applause]] [[Nobody's frozen anything. Don't lie.]] In total, comparing the salaries for teachers, including the increase, which will be close to 10% in September, which will be 15% this year. increase in teacher salaries, as the first part of the increase was already realized in January, compared to December 2017 - increase in salaries That's an average of 21%. [[Not much?]] Another proposal that we have made in this agreement is to shorten the traineeship, speed up the career promotion, which also translates into... [[You extended it first.]] ...for salary increases, and guarantee, among others. a minimum of PLN 300 for upbringing. This offer is still valid and Mr Bronisz knows that there is an agreement to sign, if he wishes to sign it at the moment, he can do so. However, ladies and gentlemen, at the moment, the most important thing is, of course, the exams, so that young people can pass these exams in peace, without stress, and write them. By the way, I would like to thank all those teachers who are with their students all the time during their exams once again. [[Some Members stand up, long-term applause]] I want to thank you for your responsibility, but also your courage, because we realise that these elections are not easy. But I would also like to reassure the honourable Members and say that this proposal we have made is also a proposal that makes a proposal for the future. In the second part of the agreement, we proposed an increase in teacher's salaries, on average for a teacher who was certified up to PLN 8100 at the change of pension. This proposal requires dialogue, conversation and willingness to talk on the other hand. [[Three years ago, you had to talk.]] We propose that these changes be adopted again this year, so that they can be implemented next year, while this project, ultimately, this 8100 on average for a qualified teacher, once again, could enter into force in 2022. Ladies and gentlemen! Since 2015, the Government of Law and Justice has consistently implemented a change to the economic agenda. We are introducing an economic model, the main assumption of which is that all citizens, all Poles and all Poles have the right to benefit from GDP growth. [[Applause]] And this is a diametrically different approach compared to what you present and which you are the authors of, because for many years the model has been implemented in Poland... [[Voice from the Chamber: Rules of Procedure of the Sejm.]] ...on the basis of Balcerowicz's plan, which distinguished Poles. And his three main assumptions are: Poland is supposed to be an assembly plant... [[We thank the President for voting in favour.]] ...the base of cheap labor, and those who disagreed were to go abroad. We radically change this economic model. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: What are you talking about?]] [[Those are lies.]] We know, ladies and gentlemen, that there are many professional groups in Poland that should earn better. And they'll make better money. [[Propaganda.]] But we can't do it all at once, it takes time. [[To TVP, not here.]] And we will consistently carry out this plan over the years. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Four years, four years.]] Today we go to teachers with a proposal...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u291	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u292	...the salary increases that are contained in the agreement I have just mentioned. [[Voice from the room: Lying!]] If you wish to sign this agreement, trade unions, we can, after the exams, begin discussions on the second part of the agreement, the one contained in the new social contract for teachers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[This is blackmail.]] [[This is an outrage. Shame.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u293	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Robert Winnicki, please come to my place. [[What are we supposed to do? Watching you wave at each other? What's this? What are we doing? Maybe we're not needed.]] Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have explained with Mr Winnicki the content of his proposal for formal reasons. [[Roger that.]] I would like to inform Mrs Ursula Augustyn that although, from a formal point of view, the request for a break is as formal as possible, it follows from the justification that the point which is not covered by the agenda is not the subject of the agenda. [[So, what was the Prime Minister's response?]] [[In what mode was this performance?]] Let me remind you, Madam President, and I draw your attention, because it is everyone who should already know that Article. Paragraph 184. 2 says: "The formal proposals can only apply to... [[Voice from the room: Extension of order.]] ...the matters on the agenda and the proceedings of the meeting. [[Voice from the Chamber: Third vote.]] [[Mr. Marshal, third vote, we're asking for it.]] I would like to remind you that the clubs have applied for items to supplement the agenda: [[Voice from the hall: What was the Prime Minister doing then?]] - First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the excise tax law - point notified by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - Civic Coalition, [[That's what I'm talking about.]] - Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the grounds and justifications for the adoption by the Financial Supervision Commission of an opinion on the terms and conditions of sale of SKOK Wołomin, approving the exclusion of funds from the SKOK Wołomin... here is the continuation of the title - submitted by the Poselski Modernzna Club, - Information from the Minister of National Education on ongoing negotiations with teachers and a path to the level of remuneration that will guarantee the prestige of this profession - reported by the Koło Poselskie Now!, [[Exactly.]] [[Is there a point?]] - First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Press Law Act and amending certain other laws - tabled by the Kukiz Poselski Club15, - First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the repeal of the law on municipal guards and on the amendment of other laws - requested by the Poselski Kukiz Club15. As the deadline referred to in Article is approaching, The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of [[Mr. Marshal, with a formal motion.]] We proceed with the vote on the proposal to consider the draft excise duty law. Who of you is in favour of this request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: Failed, Sławek.]] [[Mr. Marshal, I have a formal motion for this point we are voting on.]] 399 Members voted. For - 176, against - 223, no one stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on a proposal for information on the opinion of the Financial Supervision Committee. Who of you is in favour of this request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 398 Members voted. For - 175, against - 223, no one stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. [[Mr. Marshal, with a formal motion.]] Please don't disturb me. [[With a formal application...]] [[Voice from the room: But what is it: do not disturb?]] Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you do not disturb me. We proceed with the vote on the proposal on information on teachers' salaries. [[Voice from the room: What is this?]] Who of you is in favour of this request, raise your hand and press the button. [[Voice from the room: This is not your private time.]] [[Members are bothering you, aren't they?]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Mr. Marshal, but to this point, to those votes with a formal motion.]] [[But it was read that it was not preceded by a discussion.]] 407 Members voted. For - 179, against - 226, with a hold of 2. The Sejm's motion is denied. [[Now it turns out that only the PiS can claim.]] We are voting on the proposal to consider the draft Press Law. Who of you is in favour of the proposal, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 408 Members voted. Za - 66, against - 341, abstained 1. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the proposal to consider the draft law on municipal guards. Who of you is in favour of this request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Mr. Marshal, with a formal motion.]] 407 Members voted. For - 57, against - 348, stopped 2. The Sejm's motion is denied. [[This affects the course of the vote.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I've sent it to the secretariat. Please submit all formal requests in writing in advance and I am just... [[But I didn't know that for the sake of...]] ...I'll evaluate... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] ...is the application a formal application... [[And how could I have known that...]] ...in accordance with the rules of procedure. [[But what is it anyway?]] And for the second time, Mr Nitras, I urge you not to disturb me and take my place. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[But it has to do with the agenda. I have the right to file a motion.]] Mr President, in accordance with the Rule. 175... [[Voice from the Chamber: Formal requests are...]] ...I'm reminding you. Please don't interfere with my deliberations. [[Voice from the room: Rejects the point of the proposal.]] [[I mean, you can't...]] [[Go ahead, Sławek, go ahead.]] We are returning to the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and some other laws. [[I have the right to speak.]] Third reading. The Commission proposes the adoption of the draft Law No 3360. [[Fame, come on over.]] We're voting. [[According to the rules...]] Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft law from print no. 3360, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 409 Members voted. For -385, no one was against, 24 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and certain other laws. We're back on point... [[I wanted to make a formal request.]] Mr Nitras, in accordance with Article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3 I draw your attention... [[Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: No, Mr Marshal, the formal conclusions are...]] ...and I recall you in order to allow me to drive without disturbing the Sejm's deliberations. [[I'm filing a formal request, not disturbing.]] [[You're restricting...]] [[I'm filing a formal motion, Mr. Marshal. I'm not interfering. I've got it in writing.]] [[Art. 175, if you're looking.]] I remind you that a formal application shall be made orally during the proceedings unless the Marshal requests a written notification. So I demand a written notification. [[I'm in writing right now.]] [[Voice from the room: Fold. Give it to him.]] We are returning to the examination of item 2 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Health on the Government's draft law on health care for students. [[Voice from the room: Give it to him.]] [[The voice from the hall: But your hands are shaking.]] Thank you very much. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 3361. Questions are asked by Members. Member of Alice Chybick, Civic Platform Club. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u294	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act discussed at the moment and voted on has the title: on health care for students. However, it concerns practically only the care of treating our children's teeth. Our children consist of more organs than just teeth. In fact, medical care for students is very important. Prophylaxis is a fantastic thing, it's needed, but nursing care and hygiene is absolutely not enough. The Civic Platform will vote for this project because, simply put, it's better than nothing. It's a good thing the kids are gonna have healthy teeth because it's kind of a time bomb. On the other hand, I call for the next step to return to medical care for students, [[♪ The bell ♪]] to study healthy children. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u295	Thank you, Member. Mr Marek Ruciński, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u296	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Giving high-level health prevention, emphasis on care and education from an early age, regular health reviews are passwords taken directly from the Modern program. When I examined the draft law on health care for students contained in Seym printing no. 3297, I believed that Law and Justice would draw on good practices that have been calling for health promotion organisations for years. As usual, the idea was right, because it seems that no one in the Chamber has any doubt that healthcare is needed at school, but many legal gaps and a number of underdeveloped solutions, which are included in this project, clearly indicate that the Law and Justice Government has just ruined this idea. My question is this: Is it true that W. solutions segregate pupils, restrict adult patients' access to benefits and drop [[♪ The bell ♪]] the costs of making changes mainly to local governments?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u297	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u298	It's hard to vote for an increase in chaos... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u299	Thank you, sir. Mr Józef Hrynkiewicz, the Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u300	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Of course, it is witty to say that the student consists only of teeth and maybe not even all teeth. The law, which today, I hope, we will adopt unanimously, is a law that treats education, promotion and prevention very widely. It assumes the appointment of offices in schools, dental offices, as well as the execution of all the functions that have not been completed so far. Therefore, I would very much like to ask those countries who have had a lot of time to draw up such a bill for this bill to be adopted. Working on this bill, as I remember, lasted a long time, it was consulted with all and correctly... [[It doesn't work.]] ...programs taking care of all the students. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u301	Thank you. The Deputy Minister of Health, Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u302	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! This bill is extremely expected and necessary. Until now, the issue of student care has been treated very fragmentedly and not quite comprehensively. For the first time, our government has decided to regulate, standardize the scope of student care... [[What does the student get? You'll tell me.]] ...who are in school. For the first time in a precise manner, we have defined how this care is to be carried out, for example, on disabled children. We point to the need for cooperation between a family doctor and a school nurse, an environmental nurse. To date, these tasks have been carried out in a fragmented manner. We guarantee access for children and young people to dental offices. The government, preparing this bill, this project, has in the meantime guaranteed the financing of the equipment of prevention offices in the school, allocating PLN 150 million in 2017 to local governments who wanted to create preventive offices in schools. [[Only money must be given to them.]] Last year, in 2018, we spent another 5 million on dental equipment. Unfortunately, not all local authorities benefited from this grant and requested funding for the equipment of these offices. No costs are passed on to local governments. Health costs for children and young people are 100% financed by the National Health Fund. In addition, the National Health Fund has increased the value of child and youth benefits in order to ensure proper care for children and young people. Until now, as I have said, no government has comprehensively regulated the issue of childcare and youth at school. So that I ask you very much to vote on this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u303	Thank you, Minister. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft print law 3361 in its entirety, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 408 Members voted. The vote was 385, against - 17, with 6 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law on the health care of students. The formal request for interruption is submitted by Mr Sławomir Nitras. [[Applause]] [[Yeah, it is.]] [[Room voice: Bravo, Sławek!]] [[Long live!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u304	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! I'm filing a motion. He's a little out of line, though, because I've asked for a break by the hour. 15. This time is over, so I'm asking for a little longer break, 10 minutes, let's say. The matter is extremely important because the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Mr. Marshal, impose not only rights on you, but also obligations. It is true that the contentious proposals are voted without discussion, but the Rules of Procedure in the Rule. 173 in point 4 clearly states that your Marshal is required to present the case. The Modern Club has requested information about the government's situation and actions in the case of the Wołomin SKOK case, and you haven't even read the title of this information. How is the High House supposed to know what he's rejecting if the marshal not only didn't deliver the case, but also the title of that information didn't read it? [[Applause]] Therefore, Mr. Marshal, you are also bound by the rules of procedure. I know why you're afraid of this information. Because it's Mr. Bierecki, because it concerns Mr. Bierecki. By the way, Mr. President, will you throw Bierecki out for those embarrassing words last night? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the hall: And then they wonder and call themselves fascists...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u305	For the order: the request for a break, at least in writing, is by the time limit. 15 plus 10 minutes. Okay. [[...Bierecki in the front row.]] I will put this motion to the vote. Who among you is in favour of ordering a break by noon. 15.10. Raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 406 Members voted. For - 167, against - 229, with a hold of 10. The Sejm's motion is denied. We return to the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Products. Third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 3373. The question is asked by Jarosław Sachajko, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u306	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! Poland's village is devastated by overlaying. More and more family farms are failing because of this. I would like to ask the rapporteur: How does this law protect Polish agriculture against the spreading overlaying chow and what further steps will be taken so that we can continue to enjoy Polish healthy food rather than superproduction in the overlaying farm? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u307	Thank you. Member of Sławomir Nitras, Civic Platform Club. It's out of date, isn't it? I see. Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no 3373, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 407 Members voted. For - 403, against -3, he's holding off on 1. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Products. We are returning to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Infrastructure Commission on the Commission's draft law amending the Postal Law Act. Third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 3326. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print no.3326, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 409 Members voted. For - 407, against - 1, he's holding off on 1. The Sejm passed a bill amending the Postal Law Act. We are returning to the examination of item 5 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government bill amending the Law on the Law on the Procedure of Administrative Courts and some other laws. Third reading. The additional committee report shall be in print No 3330-A. I ask Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u308	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to present an additional report to the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Digitalisation. The Commission unanimously recommends adopting the amendments under consideration at today's meeting. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u309	Thank you very much. The amendments presented in the additional report will be voted first. Let me remind you, it's a 3330 print. Amendment 1 was tabled in Article. 1 draft amending law containing amendments to the Law on proceedings before administrative courts. In this amendment to the article. 46 § 2 (1) applicants shall propose a different wording of point (a). b. Amendment 2 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. Let me remind you that the committees are requesting their admission. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of Amendments 1 and 2, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 408 Members voted. For - 407, against - 1, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We are voting on the entire bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 3330, along with the amendments adopted, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 406 Members voted. For - 403, against -3, no one stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on Procedure before administrative courts and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the Government's draft law amending the Law on State Aid Procedure. Third reading. The Commission proposes the adoption of a draft Print Act No 3335. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print #3335, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 409 Members voted. For - 407, against - 2, no one stopped. The Sejm has passed a law amending the Law on State aid proceedings. We return to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Committee on the Senate bill amending the Police Act and some other laws. Third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 3374. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print no. 3374, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 408 Members voted. They were all in favour. The Sejm passed a law amending the Police Act and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Committee on the Investigation of Crimes against the Nationals of Poland and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 3284-A. Third reading. I ask Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u310	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish National and some other laws. The Commission has examined the amendments tabled at today's meeting and recommends that the High House adopt them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u311	Thank you, sir. Let me remind you, it's 3284. The amendments set out in the additional report will be voted first. In the first amendment of the applicant after Article. 3 propose to add an article. 3a. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. The question is asked by Michał Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u312	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The National Remembrance Institute Act is a very sensitive matter. We know what havoc last year caused by the amendment of the bill implemented by Patrick Jaki, sitting there. Later, you had to withdraw from this law, negotiate with Israel. Today you are again submitting a parliamentary project, a non-consulted project, a project that is not authorised by the Council of Ministers. What's the problem? The problem is that, in fact, the records you're proposing today have been consummated. It's really about the archive inventory of the IPN, it's really about the deleted proprietary collection, which is already published on the IPN pages. That's when the dead fell out of the closet. That's when Ryszard, Kuja, who turned out to be, as President Kaczyński said, a five-ranking agent. The problem, however, is such a nature: [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's never supposed to happen...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u313	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u314	...this type of legislation through parliamentary projects... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u315	Thank you, sir. We're voting. Who among you is in favour of the first amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 405 Members voted. For -257, against -21, holding 127. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 4 applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 2. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. The question is asked by Michał Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u316	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! There is no institution in Poland whose budget has increased by 50% over the last four years. I would like the High Chamber to be aware that the IPN budget is five times the budget of the Polish Academy of Sciences, the IPN budget is ten times the budget of the Ombudsman's Office. This money is not used properly. Every now and then, we are dealing with a discreditation of this office under the direction of President Shark. It is this office that changes addresses against the will of the locals, against the will of the local government. It's the president who's always...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u317	Mr President, please refer to Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u318	...is presenting controversial proposals, and I quote: tear down the palace of culture and recreate the centre of the capital according to what it looked like in 1939.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u319	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention: you are not talking about the second amendment. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Don't bother the marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u320	It's the president who's also saying we have to go back... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u321	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention: you are again in violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club, has the floor. I remind you, please ask questions about the second amendment to the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u322	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Before I proceed to the second amendment, I would like to refer to the opening vote, the Prime Minister's speech, which was polite to mention...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u323	Mr President, talk about the second amendment. Excuse me, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u324	But, Marshal, let me ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u325	This is the moment to ask questions and they are meant to be about the 2nd amendment. [[It's censorship, really.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u326	Mr. Marshal, now you're taking my time. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u327	I'm gonna deny you the opportunity to ask a question if you're not gonna talk about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u328	Before I ask a question, however, I will comment on the Prime Minister's statement and thank you very warmly...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u329	Please, get to the point. [[Get to the point.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u330	That's the point.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u331	Please, sir, get to the point.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u332	I would very much like to thank President Jarosław Kaczyński for supporting Balcerowicz's plan while he was a senator. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u333	Mr President, I would like to point out to you that you are speaking out of the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u334	Thank you again, as a young citizen, for supporting Balcerowicz's plan. Coming back... What's the bill for, and what's the amendment for? In order to put all the archives reserved in one bag in the IPN. Why? To make it easier for you to search for the Kujans - you know who Kuja is in your environment - because you need them. [[That's not what they said. That's not what they were doing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u335	For the third time, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you did not speak in the rule of law. [[Punish me for pissing.]] You didn't come forward to ask a question, just to make a piece of the statement, and not quite on the subject. [[Voice from the hall: And what are you laughing at?]] [[Voice from the hall: Mr. Marshal, stop fooling around.]] The question is asked by Mr Robert Majka, a non-member Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u336	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I fully support the bill and the amendments. This is a very important issue, in my opinion, a very important issue related to these amendments. I'll refer to it in two more sentences. A few days ago, I said this: Ladies and gentlemen, until the past is clear. politicians on the Polish political scene, not much will change. I'm sorry to repeat myself, but unfortunately that's the reality. Thank you very much. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u337	There you go. Let me remind you that the committee is asking for an amendment. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 2nd amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 406 Members voted. For - 247, against - 26, holding 133. The Sejm accepted the amendment. There are questions before the vote on the project as a whole. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u338	Mr. President! Balcerowicz's plan - thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[You're so funny.]] Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! The Institute of National Remembrance was to be an institution that sought historical truth, unfortunately it became an institution that created its own version of history. The IPN was supposed to be an institution that seeks historical truth about the activity of Poles in our difficult history, but it became an outcast of Orwell's novel, the creator of politically helpful message about people whom this power hates and wants to destroy. This bill, prepared in an outrageous manner, is part of this activity. I don't know if you're the president of the IPN, but I have a question for probably the actual author of this amendment. Mr. President! Are there any boundaries of decency that the IPN won't cross? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u339	Mr Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u340	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's been a long time. so sloppyly prepared amendment of the law, but de facto this law regulates cases that are actually already in force. It concerns the development, publication, making available of the archive inventory of the IPN. The Civic Platform Club will therefore abstain on this matter. We would like to point out that the IPN in the current version is an unnecessary institution. I would like to recall the position of the Civic Platform on IPN: the IPN will be terminated and its tasks, all tasks, historical, scientific, will be taken over by other institutions, such as the Polish Academy of Sciences. Mr. President! It is also a matter of never showing up a politician who will speak a nationalistic language, excluding, hateful, slandering Poland, because it is a language that should never appear in a public debate. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u341	For the fourth time, I would like to point out to you that at this point we are at the point of asking questions, not making statements. [[Come on, really.]] I think that's an understandable formula. [[Voice from the room: Discreditation.]] Member Robert Winnicki, near the Confederation, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u342	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! No wonder that the password for the liquidation of IPN comes from the committee in which Leszek Miller or Cimoszewicz are launched. For those of you who are descended from the Solidarity, it is a disgrace that they are with such people on such lists. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! Always the debate about the IPN, the debate about national memory, the debate about national dignity is a good time to appeal, to remind what is in the hearts today, in the minds of millions of Poles... [[Voice from the room: Question.]] ...and what is in the national interest of Poland. [[Voice from the room: This is about?]] When will there be an exhumation in Jedwabne and an explanation for this crime?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u343	Ladies and gentlemen, I encourage everyone to re-examine the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. We are voting on the entire bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft Print Act No 3284, together with the amendments adopted, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. For - 256, against - 32, the 124 stopped. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals and some other laws. We return to the consideration of item 9 of the agenda: Report of the Communication Commission with Poles abroad on the government bill amending the Act on the Polish Charter and the consular law. This is print number 3335-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Małgorzata Wypych to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u344	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report of the Communication Commission with Poles abroad on the governmental bill amending the Polish Charter Act and the consular law. At its current meeting on 11 April, the Sejm re-directed the draft law contained in print No 3362 to the Commission for Communication with Poles abroad in order to consider the amendments tabled at second reading. The Committee on Communication with Poles abroad after considering the amendments at its meeting on 11 April asks the High Sejm to accept all four amendments tabled at second reading. They are of a substantive nature. It should be added that all these amendments were supported unanimously by the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u345	Thank you, Member. Let me remind you, it's print number 3375. We will vote first on the additional amendments that have been tabled in the additional report. In the 1st amendment, applicants propose the title of the Act to amend the Act on the Polish Charter. Amendments 2 and 3 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission, I remind you, is asking for their adoption. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the amendments from 1 to 3 please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. They were all in favour. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 4th amendment to the article. 6 draft law applicants propose that the law enter into force 30 days after the date of publication. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of the 4th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 406 Members voted. For -404, against -1, he abstained - 1. The Sejm accepted the amendment. The whole bill. We are voting on the entire bill. Who of you is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no.3375 along with the amendments adopted, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. For - 410, no one was against, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Polish Charter Act. We are returning to the examination of item 10 of the Foreign Affairs Committee's report on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and Japan, on the other hand, drawn up in Tokyo on 17 July 2018. Third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 3300. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print No 3300, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. For -401, against -6, holding off on 8. The Sejm adopted the Act on the ratification of the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Japan, of the other part, drawn up in Tokyo on 17 July 2018. We are returning to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Public Finance Commission on the Parliamentary draft law amending the Act on the Tax on the Extraction of Certain Copies. The additional report shall be in print No 3377-A. Third reading. I would like to ask Mrs Eve Szymanska to present this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u346	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have the great honour to present an additional report by the Committee on Public Finance on the Parliamentary bill amending the law on the extraction of certain minerals, print no. 3312. Sejm held at its 79th meeting on 11 April this year. in accordance with Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm again referred the draft law contained in print No 3377 to the Committee on Public Finances for the purpose of considering amendments at second reading. The amendments were tabled by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - Civic Coalition and by the Kukiz Parliamentary Club15. The Public Finance Commission, after considering yesterday's amendments, asks the High Sejm to reject them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u347	Thank you, Member. Let me remind you, it's print number 3377. The amendments tabled by the committee in the additional report will be voted first. Both amendments were tabled to the Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the law on the extraction of certain fossils. In the 1st amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 26a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Ewa Drozd, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u348	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! This amendment will allow you, at least in part, to realize the promise that you made to the inhabitants of Lower Silesia in 2015 by bringing to Lubin a blue file with a bill that would eliminate this harmful tax. Therefore, Prime Minister, Minister Błaszczak, I am sure you will convince your colleagues to support this amendment. Otherwise, you will confirm the translation by your colleagues at the committee meeting that you have made this promise without being aware of budgetary responsibility. That's why I ask, did you know or didn't you? Are you aware of this today when adopting this bill? We don't know the Minister of Finance's opinion or the government's opinion. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u349	Mr Grzegorz Długi, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u350	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When we discussed the draft law, one of my colleagues joked - it is contrary to appearances a rather deep joke - namely: why is the PiS worse than the PO? Because the PO introduced this law halfway through their governments, and you introduced it in the beginning. This tax really should be abolished. I'm out of jokes. This tax harms Polish copper and, in my opinion, violates the basic constitutional principle, because it affects only one entity. Taxes cannot be introduced which are a burden on the entire population that fulfils certain conditions, knowing that they concern one entity. This tax should be abolished as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u351	Thank you, sir. Then we shall proceed to the vote. Who of you is in favour of Amendment 1, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. 179 voted against - 231, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 7 applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Paweł Grabowski, a Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u352	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Question: "What is the meaning and logic here?" Yesterday, at a committee meeting, a representative of Law and Justice said that this tax was a drain. This tax introduced by the Civic Platform is also being criticised today by the Civic Platform. The platform introduced him, the PiS hasn't done anything to him in three years. Where's the sense and logic, ladies and gentlemen? Tell me. Mr. Marshal! Maybe you can tell me what it's like. This is the typical PO-PiS action, the Platform introduces tax, you keep it, and people pay it. And this tax applies only to one company. Is that normal? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u353	In fact, the answer to the point is that this law concerns the reduction of this tax. That's the real answer, isn't it? We therefore proceed with the vote. Who of you is in favour of Amendment 2, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. For - 64, against - 227, stopped 124. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Before the vote on the whole, there are questions. Member Robert Kropiwnicki, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u354	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! How can we know that elections are coming? The PiS is starting to promise something about the fossil tax. Before the 2015 election, you promised you'd put up with him. [[Don't scream, don't scream!]] Before the local elections, you promised the Prime Minister, the Minister, the Members of the PiS, that you would hand this over to the local governments. Now all of a sudden what? By 15% You want to lower him? It's like you're promising someone a hundred and you're giving them 15 zlotys. What do you call him, a liar or a crook? That's what all your governments are all about. You promise mountains and a hole comes out. [[Voice from the room: Hole.]] And this is your whole government, really. [[But whatever's working out for us.]] We're all in favour of eliminating this tax. And you guys just keep doing it all the time. You're cheating. Thank you very much. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Who introduced him?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u355	Mr Agnieszka Chasing, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u356	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The purpose of this tax was to capture extraordinary profits of KGHM Polska Miedź SA. This tax is wrong because there are no extraordinary profits left. There are debts, and debts are due to bad management. We want to help you fulfill your promise. The people in Lower Silesia voted for you because you promised to abolish this tax. Why haven't we tried since 2018 and today we haven't voted on a law that is fulfilling your promise made in Lower Silesia? I ask you to think about it, because it was your promise. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u357	Thank you. Member Robert Winnicki, near the Confederation, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u358	A conspiracy, Mr. Marshal. And in 2015 in October, Prime Minister Szydło said: Lubin is a special city. It should be shown as an example in which the economy should develop. KGHM is an important company, not just here. This is an important company for Poland. Patriotism is also connected with Lubin. Companies like KGHM should be supported by the state. That's what Prime Minister Szydło said. And she ended with the following phrase: If the PiS rules, the tax that KGHM pays will be abolished. It's been three and a half years and it hasn't been decommissioned and it's not decommissioned. You tricked the miners, you tricked KGHM, You fooled the people of Lower Silesia. It's the facts, and it's not just about this case. You promise everything, you'll accomplish very little. 15% ? They laugh at it in the copper pit, Prime Minister. It's just people laughing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u359	Thank you. Mr Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u360	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! I wanted to ask you where is this 2015 law, which you presented in Lower Silesia in person and which completely abolished the fossil tax. Today a delicate gift, a cherry on a cake - 15% . But I also wanted to ask the government representative about the amount of checks you've paid since 2015 in KGHM. Four presidents, many vice presidents, a number of rolling directors of different departments and branches. How much money did you actually pull out of KGHM in the form of such briefings in private pockets? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u361	Please answer these questions by the representative of the applicants Mr Krzysztof Kubow.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u362	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Parliamentarians of the Civic Platform and PSL! First of all, I'd like to say a few words to you to recreate the memory of this. [[Voice from the room: Answer the questions.]] Recreate Memory [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] As for your concern for the development and welfare of KGHM. Literally a few tasks, ladies and gentlemen. [[Go ahead.]] It was 2007... [[Sermon?]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, not about the subject.]] It was 2007. Mr Adam Szejnfeld spoke clearly at the time... [[Where are your promises?]] ... KGHM should be privatized. [[But you repeat yourself, sir. You're repeating yourself.]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] You organized a press conference in Lubin, which was attended by the then secretary of the Civic Platform, and today your president, Grzegorz Schetyn. What were the words then, ladies and gentlemen? There's absolutely no way we can move 42%. KGHM shares. Let's move on historically. It was 2008, when you guys were in charge. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[But we're talking about today.]] You have excluded KGHM from the list of strategic companies of the State Treasury. [[Mr. Marshal, what's that to the point?]] You've excluded KGHM from the list of strategic companies. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Voice from the room: This is about?]] It was 2010. And what was your election promise, ladies and gentlemen? [[Voice from the room: This concerns the bill?]] You sold 10%. KGHM shares for PLN 2 billion. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: In 2019]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] The same shares were worth over PLN 3 billion a year later. [[Voice from the hall: Who took it? Employees.]] [[Voice in the hall: He doesn't answer the questions, Marshal.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let's move on historically. It was 2012. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u363	Quiet, please. [[Voice from the courtroom: Mr. Marshal can't hear.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u364	Year 2012. You're introducing a tax on the extraction of some fossils. You say there's a crisis, you need money for the budget. [[But it hurts, it hurts.]] I would like to remind you that in the same years VAT mafias were very good, they did not have a crisis. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] [[Voice from the room: This is not about the bill.]] In the same year, you make a strategic decision for KGHM. [[That's what we're asking for in the statements. About the bill.]] [[The applicant responds to what you just said.]] You're making a strategic decision on foreign investment. Ladies and gentlemen, this must sound out of this podium. To this day PLN 19 billion KGHM has paid for this investment. Ladies and gentlemen, PLN 19 billion. [[Talk about the bill.]] PLN 7 billion of KGHM's debt is due today. [[The bill, the bill.]] It's because of your governments, your politics, that you've led to it. [[4 years. The PiS rules four years.]] We're offering 15% today. reduction, that is PLN 240 million per year. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shame.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We're taking the first step towards relieving this company from this tax. [[Yeah, first step. And the last one.]] But what's important, and what's worth pointing out, in your governments, you said clearly: the ZG Lubin mine for liquidation, it has to be eliminated because it doesn't pay off. [[4 years.]] The Legnica Copperworks to liquidate. [[You've been in charge for four years.]] Under our rule, ladies and gentlemen, the ZG Lubin mine is the most profitable. [[The bill, please. We're asking for the government's opinion.]] The Copper Legnica plant with new investments is developing. Inhabitants, employees of the Copper Basin can look to the future calmly. In our reign... [[Four years, four years.]] As soon as we embraced the government, ladies and gentlemen, we introduced a regulation that protected KGHM from hostile takeover. [[Voice from the room: He, he, he.]] That's the difference between ruling in your day and in our day. [[You're repeating yourself.]] Hypocrisy and shame, ladies and gentlemen. You shouldn't have said anything about KGHM at all. [[4 years.]] So much for comment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[And the bill?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u365	Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal, was that on the subject?]] [[Marshal of one club, marshal of one party.]] We proceed to the vote on the whole draft law. Who among you is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print no. 3377, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. For - 407, no one was against, no one stopped 3. The Sejm passed a law amending the law on the tax on the extraction of certain fossils. We are returning to the review of item 14 of the agenda: the report of the Commission for Energy and Treasury and the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the draft law amending the Act on Energy Consumption Information by Energy-using Products and on the control of the implementation of the programme for marking office equipment and certain other laws. Third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 3369. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no.3369, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 408 Members voted. For -404, against -4, no one stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on Energy Consumption Information by Energy-using Products and on the control of the implementation of the programme of marking office equipment and certain other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: Changes in the composition of the Secretaries of the Sejm (Print No 3367). Bureau of the Sejm, on the basis of the Rule. 6 (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, has submitted a proposal for amendments to the composition of the Secretaries of the Sejm. Would any of you like to take the floor on this? No one's checking in. We're voting. Who of you is in favour of accepting the application in print 3367, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 401 Members voted. For -374, against -25, holding off on 2. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the composition of the Sejm's secretaries. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 min 36 hours 15 min 44]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the consideration of items 16 and 17 of the agenda: 16. Information from the Council of Ministers on the situation of older people in Poland for 2016 (print No 2043) together with the position of the Committee on Senior Policy (print No 2097). 17. Information from the Council of Ministers on the situation of older people in Poland for 2017 (print No 3071), together with the position of the Committee on Senior Policy (print No 3130). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Stanisław Swede to present information.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u366	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present to the Council of Ministers information about the situation of older people in Poland for 2016, print No 2043, and information to the Council of Ministers about the situation of older people in Poland for 2017, print No 3071. High Izbo! Mrs. Marshal! Information about the situation of older people, which I am presenting, stems from the adopted Act on older people from 2015. This information allows to diagnose the current situation and needs of Polish seniors. The structure of the document. It is very extensive. You had the opportunity to get acquainted with it. It concerns the situation of older people in the demographic, economic, family and health situation, the labour market situation, the availability and level of social services and social, civic, educational, cultural and sporting activities of older people. In addition, information on the situation of older people includes a study on the state of implementation of social policy for older people at both central and regional levels. If you allow me, I will focus more on 2017 so that I no longer discuss 2016 and also the information that results from the current activity concerning the situation of older people. It will be so brief, in a telegraph shortcut, and at the end there will be conclusions and recommendations that result from these documents. It is worth recalling, as far as the demographic situation is concerned, that at the end of 2017, the total population in Poland amounted to 38 400 thousand. There were over 9 million people over the age of 60. This is information that is worth remembering, but it is also worth keeping in mind what is ahead of us. If we're talking about respect for 2050, this population could rise to almost 14 million people, which is about 40%. the general public. This is the challenge that we are facing, and the next parliaments are facing. The economic situation of the elderly. In 2017, the average monthly income available per person in households resident exclusively by the elderly - at the age of 60 and above - amounted to PLN 1888 and was 17.5% higher than on holdings which comprised only younger persons. At the same time, average monthly expenditure per person in households resident only by people aged 60 years and over amounted to PLN 1514 and was almost 29% higher than on holdings which included younger persons. As regards the housing situation of the elderly in 2017, the average usable area of the apartment for one household of the elderly was almost 67 m2 and it was approximately 11 m2 smaller than the apartments of the younger people. Social assistance issues. According to this data, in 2017 more than 105 thousand used care and specialist services. persons. The total funds that were spent for this purpose amounted to more than PLN 562 million. More than 5 000 used specialist care services. people and the amount of benefits amounted to more than PLN 22 million. More than 14,000 have benefited from specialist services for people with mental disorders. the people, the amount we spent, is over PLN 110 million. As regards the situation of older people in the labour market, in 2017 those working at the age of 60 and over accounted for less than 8% the general public active from the age of 15 to the age of 60. Activity rates are not high in our country when it comes to older people, although this is improving. As we look at people who work and take pension benefits today, we can see that they are already far more than they were a few years ago. The health of the elderly. As regards the data contained in this report, the limited capacity to perform daily activities lasting at least 6 months concerned approximately 46% in 2017. persons. Health care. At the end of 2017, 63 geriatric units operated in Poland, which had 1341 beds. Nearly 32,000 patients were treated during the year. patients. During this period, older people took advantage of more than 92 million medical advice in outpatient health care. Within the framework of basic health care, these advices were over 54 million. The average number of medical advice per inhabitant was 8.3 advice in general in the country, and for those over 65, 14 advice per capita. As far as educational activity is concerned, it is worth mentioning the programmes we are implementing, including the universities of the third century. Sports activity. I'll tell you a little bit more about that, too. Conclusions and recommendations which result from this. The first proposal and recommendation concern the continuation of activities to ensure that older people have the lowest economic security income. Here it is worth reminding you of the solutions we have introduced, i.e. with a minimum pension at the level at the moment 1100 PLN. At the time it was 1000 PLN. It is evident support for all those who did not have such a high lowest benefit. It is also worth mentioning the latest solutions, among others. about the Mom 4+ programme, i.e. about support with the lowest pension benefit, i.e. 1100 PLN gross, for moms or fathers who raised four children and more. As far as economic support is concerned, it is also worth recalling here a one-off allowance for pensioners, so-called. 13th retirement. This law has been in force since 1 May of this year. It is about these actions, which are undertaken, among others. with regard to the proposal for income support, economic security support. There is also a question related to the promotion of health and prevention of diseases of the old age, the development of an educational offer. I think it is worth recalling the ASOS projects and the resources that have been allocated to this programme in recent years. It is worth highlighting here, as regards the ASOS programme, the issue of the amount of funds this year and in previous years. These funds are 80 million. Previously, this amount amounted to 30 million, i.e. an increase of 50 million, which significantly improved the situation with regard to the NGOs that benefit from these programmes. This year, for example. more than 1300 applications were submitted, 300 offers were positively decided and these funds go directly to these organisations to support the activity of older people. Another point of this recommendation is to support the development of geriatrics, improve the availability of health services and improve the professional training of medical staff. Here it is worth recalling the programme, which is currently being implemented, about the "Opiece 75+..." from which funds are directed precisely to support local government units with up to 60,000. residents. You can benefit from support, specialized care, care for people and extended program, which applies not only to lonely people, but also to people in families who need such support too. There is also a question of increasing the effectiveness of social assistance, as well as the development of diverse services provided locally, at the place of residence. It is also about developing support measures or continuing active ageing and intergenerational approaches at central and regional level. Here it is worth reminding you of the program implemented by the Senior+, which, on the one hand, creates the possibility of creating day-to-day senior houses as well as senior clubs. Here, too, there is more support in relation to previous years. As far as the effects of these actions are concerned, this is it. There's also a question of modules. Last year, 240 new institutions were created. This year's number will be similar. If this is compared to the previous years, there is an increase of more than 100% for these benefits. On the issue of support - this is the seventh point - that is, support for the creation of senior councils as consultative bodies for local authorities, important for the participation of seniors, directing local social policy towards older people. This information was provided by representatives of the Ministry at a committee meeting. These senior councils work well, they also form at the level of local governments. It is also important to initiate and run non-governmental organisations, businesses and social campaigns in cooperation with the local government, because these campaigns are also organised in this area. It is also worth noting here the actions that are being taken, for example. From 1 March, as I said before, it is the lowest pension of up to 1 000. zł, currently: 1,1 thousands. PLN or other benefits to improve the situation of seniors. The material is wide and applies for 2 years: 2016 and 2017. Both of these documents received a positive opinion from the Senior Policy Committee, so that I ask the High House to accept information. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u367	Thank you, Minister. I would like to ask Mrs Krystyna Wróblewska to present the Commission's position on printing information No 2043.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u368	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! At the meeting of the Senior Policy Committee on 6 December 2017, the Under-Secretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy was presented by Minister Elżbieta Bojanowska on the situation of the elderly in Poland for 2016. This document was developed by the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy in cooperation with all ministries, voivodships and central offices, such as the Central Statistical Office or the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, and representatives of NGOs working in the field of social policy for the benefit of the elderly. In order to involve all interested parties in the co-creation of this document on the Ministry's website, an invitation to submit comments and information on the matter was made available in due time. The first part of the document presents information on the socio-demographic, socio-economic situation of older people, in particular on demography and economics, family, health, labour market situation, accessibility and level of social services, social-citizen activity, educational, cultural and sporting activities. The second part of the study provides information on the scope of actions towards older people at central and regional level. The third part presents the most important conclusions and recommendations. Particular attention has been paid to actions implemented in the various regions for the benefit of the elderly. Turning to the socio-demographic characteristics of older people - at the end of 2016, the population in Poland amounted to 38.4 million, of which over 9 million were people aged 60 years and over, i.e. 24% of our society. When discussing the situation of older people, the diversity of this population should first be highlighted. It varies in both health, economic and life experience. Starting from the age of - in 2016, 55% of senior citizens are 67 and 70 years old, 27% at the age of 70 and 80 years, 18% over 80 years of age. There was definitely more among female seniors - 59% - than men - 41%. Turning to the material situation of older people, the information collected shows that in 2016 people aged 60 and over lived mostly single and double households. The average monthly income available per person in households with at least one person aged 60 and over in 2016 was PLN 1828.44, i.e. higher than in 2015 by PLN 421 and higher by about PLN 350 than income in households without persons aged 60 and over. The main source of income for older people was pensions, and in 2016 the average monthly pension paid by ZUS was PLN 2131.7, i.e. higher by PLN 44 compared to 2015. The second source of income for older people is invalidity pensions. Turning to the health of the population - according to the study of the CSO, which the fifth older person considers his health to be good or very good. Every other person is older, that's ok. 47% , evaluates your health neutrally and negatively - 23.6%. Two thirds of people over the age of 60, i.e. more than 66%, indicate long-term health problems or chronic diseases that persist - or are expected to last - at least 6 months. Compared to the 2015 study, this was a decrease of almost 22%. Chronic diseases or various types of ailments have been reported more frequently by women and this regularity applies to all age groups. [[I think these people died because chronic illness doesn't work out.]] The most common health problems for older people, as in 2015, are hypertension, neck or back pain, osteoarthritis, coronary artery disease or diabetes. According to the report by the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health in hospitals in 2016, there were 48 geriatric units with 1122 beds. In these branches, it was noted that almost 32 thousand were in the course of 2016. Older people were treated on a stationary basis and 76,000. was treated in day-to-day mode. According to the reporting of health care institutions in 2016, older people benefited from more than 89 million medical advice under outpatient health care. The average number of medical advice given in outpatient healthcare per capita was 8.3 advice. In the case of older people, however, this figure was 14.7 per capita advice. In primary health care doctors gave over 52 million advice to the elderly, which was 31.5% all the advice given. In specialized care doctors gave almost 32 million medical advice to the elderly, which is 27,5% all specialist advice. By moving to caring services - according to this information, which was collected from voivodships, 78 thousand used caring services in 2016. older people, of which the most in the Mazowieckie voivodship - 12 156 older people, and the least in the Pomeranian voivodship - only 1050 people. The amount spent by local authorities on benefits under this title is PLN 433 million. On the other hand, the specialist care services benefited from 4.5 thousand. Older people, the amount of benefits amounted to PLN 16 million. As at 31 December 2016, there were 26 family help homes in Poland for the total number of places of 150, where 136 people were staying, and 703 apartments protected by 2922, with 2774 people taking advantage of them. The total population of social assistance homes over 61 years of age was 44 289, as at 31 December 2016, with the number of vacant seats in social assistance homes at the end of 2016. I will highlight some conclusions and recommendations, which are detailed in the information on the situation of older people in Poland for 2016. It goes on, among other things. to take action to improve the material situation of older people, especially those with the lowest incomes. Secondly, the continuation of the National Housing Programme and the social housing programme. It is also a continuation and implementation of actions aimed at improving the functioning of the social assistance system, a broader policy for social inclusion and combating the poverty of older people. Continuing and implementing activities, initiatives, at both central and regional level, in the field of professional activation of older people, but also taking actions to stimulate the entrepreneurship of older people, which are an untapped resource of human capital in Poland's economy. Continue and initiate new campaigns, programmes and actions promoting the positive image of old age. It is very important to change our society's awareness of the image of the elderly and to put emphasis on intergenerational cooperation, to educate the young generation about old age and about the problems associated with this stage of life. Continue health promotion and prevention activities, including the development of an educational offer for older people in the field of healthy, active lifestyles. Raise awareness of the effects of dangerous behaviour. Education in new technologies. Maintaining the priority of geriatric development. Improving accessibility to public-funded health services, vocational training of all medical professionals in geriatrics and improving professional healthcare professionals providing health services to older people. Continue and take action in favour of people with disabilities and independents and their carers by introducing changes to the system of support for people with disabilities in the field of social, cultural, educational and sport activities. It is recommended to continue and take action at both central and regional levels to increase the participation of older people in all forms of activity. After considering the situation of the elderly in Poland for 2016, the Senior Policy Commission requested the adoption of the abovementioned Sejm at its meeting on 6 December 2017. Print document No 2043. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u369	Thank you, Member. I would like to ask Mrs Lydia Burzyńska to present the Commission's position on print information No 3071.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u370	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I present the Commission's position regarding the information of the Council of Ministers about the situation of older people in Poland for 2017 from print No 3071. Information about the situation of older people in Poland for 2017 presents the situation of seniors in a very detailed manner. It also contains a description of the state of play of the tasks of senior policy. [[Game in the O.R.]] May I continue? [[But I'm not taking your microphone.]] Thank you very much. I have a report for 2017, ma'am. The document describes actions in the field of social policy towards older people at central and regional levels. It presents the actions of individual ministries towards the elderly in 16 voivodships of our country with examples of good practices applied in each of these regions. The document consists of three parts. The socio-economic situation is described in seven areas, including: demographic and social representation of the ongoing aging process of the Polish population, which is the result of a beneficial phenomenon, which is the extension of life expectancy. This process is deepened by a low level of fertility. Part two sets out in detail the situation of seniors at central and regional levels. The ageing of Polish society forces public policy to develop social policy aimed at older people in order to create today and in the future conditions to meet the needs of this group. Very important information is contained in the third part. This is an assessment of the state of implementation of senior policy in conjunction with proposals and recommendations for further action. The data collected and presented in this document are the basis for determining and formulating senior policy orientations. Numerous government programmes in recent years have been developing various forms of support and care for the elderly. There is a growing social activity of seniors who can spend their free time actively and creatively. All ministries, Central Statistical Office, Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, government proxy for equal treatment, voivodships and the National Institute of Freedom were involved in the preparation of this document. On behalf of the Senior Commission, I thank you for preparing a document showing the situation of older people in Poland on many levels of their life and functioning. On behalf of the committee, I ask the High Sejm to accept the document from print No 3071. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u371	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the joint discussion on these items, it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Krystyna Wróblewska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u372	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I would like to express my position on the information of the Council of Ministers about the situation of older people in Poland for 2016 from print No 2043. I would like to stress that this document has been drafted by the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy in cooperation with all ministries, voivodships and central offices such as the Central Statistical Office, the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection and representatives of non-governmental organisations active in the field of social policy towards the elderly. In order to involve all interested parties in the co-creation of this document on the Ministry's website, an open call for comments and information was made in due time. The first part of the document presents information on the socio-demographic and socio-economic situation of older people. The information concerned in particular demography, economics, family, health, labour market situation, accessibility and level of social services, social and civic activity, educational, cultural and sporting activities. The second part of the study provides information on the scope of tasks for older people at central and regional levels. The third part presents the most important conclusions and recommendations. Particular attention has been paid to actions in favour of older people in particular regions. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to stress that the document contains a number of information on older people. It shows how the rule of law and justice works for them, how their situation improves during the present time of government. I would like to stress that salary increases, i.e. pensions and pensions of older people in relation to 2015. I would also like to stress that the employment activity of older people in 2016 was quite low, which is why one recommendation is to encourage older people simply to become more active. This will give people a chance to get out of their disability. The lifestyle of seniors should also be defined as passive, therefore recommendations show that seniors should be strengthened in this area. Ladies and gentlemen! The Law and Justice Club welcomes the information from print No. 2043 and recommends this information positively. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u373	Thank you, Member. Mr Szczerba, Parliamentary Club PO-KO, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u374	High Izbo! We are talking about the situation of the elderly, about a group of 9 million Poles and Poles. It is the only such debate throughout the year when we are talking about this age group. Ladies and gentlemen! I think it's time to check the attendance list and ask where they are. Where is the Deputy Prime Minister for Social Affairs during the debate on Polish seniors? Where's the Minister of Health? Where's the family minister? Is everyone campaigning yet? Is the Deputy Prime Minister's seat... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u375	Mr President, I ask you very much to refer to the information, because I ask you to keep an eye on who's where it is. You really aren't. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Speak to the point, not review others. Nobody's reviewing you here. [[Don't censor the MPs.]] [[The Vice Marshal turns on the microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u376	You're censoring me right now, but I understand these questions are very difficult for you. High Izbo! Information on the situation of older people should be prepared annually by the Council of Ministers, presented to the Sejm, the Senate. This is a statutory requirement arising from the Older Persons Act. This law was adopted as a legislative initiative of the Committee on Senior Policy in September 2015. Unfortunately, this law is being implemented to a very small extent. I wanted to draw attention to the terrible organization of this House. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the High Chamber is currently discussing the situation of the elderly in 2016 and 2017. If your marshal could, she'd probably answer my question about what month it is and what year it is. We are in April 2019 and what you are proposing today is a conversation about completely archival data, which is difficult to refer to, because reality changes very quickly. That's not what this bill was about. It was supposed to be annual information. Ladies and gentlemen! The Civic Platform started a senior policy in Poland. We have left the successors with a strong policy base for the elderly. Today we are dealing - I have to say it with regret - with the functioning without vision, without courage, without knowledge, but also with no responsibility, given the speed of aging Polish society and the political decisions that you have made and which were to reduce the retirement age. The High House probably knows what women's average pensions are at the moment as regards these new pensions after 1 October 2017. This average pension amounts to PLN 1600 gross. No wonder the CUS presented new data in recent months. 150,000. persons receiving pensions work in parallel. As far as the last four years are concerned, this is 30%. bigger. Ladies and gentlemen! The Civic Platform also presented its projects which had already been rejected at first reading. This was the case with the State's commitment to social security contributions when the person knowingly decides not to retire and wants to continue working. You rejected this project. You also rejected a project to help people who are independent. You also rejected two projects on 22 March 2018: the so-called. pension project without PIT, by the Civic Platform, and pension project without tax, by PSL. Seniors remember all this. Since 2016, you have rejected the budgetary amendment of the Platform concerning the National Alzheimer's Plan. From the hospital network - these are the data you've been presenting, which are already obsolete - you've thrown out 28 geriatric units. In Poland, the number of illegally operating institutions providing care to the elderly is increasing. The High House will probably want to know how many there are. In 2018 the Polish Police declared the existence of 128 illegal nursing homes. Prices are rising like crazy. The yeast is felt in the pockets of pensioners. No one-off benefit, no one-off allowance, which will soon be released, will allow seniors to live a decent life, especially the poorest ones who have the lowest pensions. There are 220,000 of them. They charge 1100 PLN gross per month. I would also like to draw attention to geriatrics. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is a problem you've completely neglected. This year it was launched... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u377	Thank you. Your time is up. Please take the floor of Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz Club15. There isn't. In that case, I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Monica Rosa, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u378	Mrs. Marshalkini! Minister! High Izbo! These reports once again make us aware of the challenges we must face. Our society is getting old. Our answer, as always, is to agree, to nod, to shake our shoulders, and to take it lightly. This, on the other hand, cannot be reckless. These reports and this debate must somehow influence all public policies in order to build a support system for the elderly. The point is that an elderly person can stay as long as possible in comfort and health in their place of residence. It's about deinstitutionalization, that is, leaving large institutions for care in the living environment. We have a very difficult time ahead of us, a time of demographic transformation and a time of work on respect for the rights and dignity of people of dignified age. First of all, pension policy. Economic security for pensioners must be ensured, and it is not. As has been said, 220 grand. people receive the lowest pension, which is not even a minimum social pension. The draft pension law without tax was rejected. More and more people are going to retire, more and more women are going to retire, and these pensions are going to get lower. What is the plan to ensure the economic security of people of a decent age? The second question is professional activation. What's the plan for people who retire to keep working? This is especially the question of people living in rural areas, including those who worked in PGRs in their time. What's their situation? What's the idea of activating them and taking care of them? The next question is health care. The hospital network did not include geriatric branches, and that is also a matter of rehabilitation. Medical care for seniors isn't enough. Those of advanced age need the care of a geriatric doctor and his collaborating geriatric syndrome. Treatment of an elderly person in several specialists at the same time, without being able to look at the patient as a whole, may reduce the effectiveness of the treatment. I also wanted to ask the Minister if you have an evaluation of the so-called programme. free medications for seniors. How do they judge this program? What conclusions can you draw after 2 years of operation, how can you change it? How many people on average use such a program? The next item is the guardians of the elderly. More than 2 million Poles and Poles take care of older or disabled family members. The state does not remember these guardians, except for the benefits for some of them. It doesn't organize care, training, doesn't provide psychological care, doesn't help to reconcile this difficult care with work. Those who choose to take care of an older family member undertake extremely difficult tasks without any preparation. This is a care that requires physical and mental involvement, which involves the need to reduce or resign from professional work. We need comprehensive action. Such regulations are e.g. In the UK, the Care Act of 2014 defines the concept of a guardian actually providing assistance to loved ones and indicates the responsibilities of local authorities to provide support to them. Irregularities in care facilities. I wanted to ask the Minister how to ensure the safety of people who are chronically ill or with disabilities who must live in care facilities. We know very well that, despite control and financial penalties, the number of illegal establishments where there is or may be abuse is not decreasing. Are there any changes planned, checks on this state of affairs? The cases of such inhuman treatment of guesthouses, which threatened their health and life, have often been described mediaally, but not only in media accidents, we must focus on these people. Care in the living environment. According to the NIK study, care services for seniors at their place of residence are not a widely available form, are not standardised. Providing adequate care in the environment can be crucial for the quality of life of a person of dignified age. The Senior Day Care Network must be surrounded by it. It must be involved in the care of such a person not only family, but also local community, also local government. Senior must have access to tailored, individual care services provided at the place of residence. He must have help in running the household, it's about meals, it's about having access to a carer, about developing volunteering, about contacting another person, but it's also about ensuring, or actually removing architectural barriers, we're talking about the so-called. The prisoners of the fourth floor. We need to improve policy towards the elderly. This is necessary because of the state of the Polish society. Health, pension, financing system, adequate housing, support services at the place of residence, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Social inclusion - these are very important challenges. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u379	Thank you very much, Member. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Margaret Zwierzan, Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u380	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on information on the situation of the elderly for the years 2016 and 2017. Older people are almost 10 million people, who are willing to share their life experience, valuable experience and knowledge, but they must be seen and appreciated. We can reciprocate by giving them proper support and showing due respect. I am pleased that this is one of the priorities of the current government. The documents presented are very important, many actors were involved in the process of creating them: ministries, local governments and NGOs. Thanks to this we received an image not only of what the situation of older people in Poland looks like, how it is perceived by seniors themselves, but also a kind of compendium of activities carried out for older people and dedicated programs. These studies are therefore comprehensive. For this, the words of recognition belong primarily to the staff of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, who coordinated the preparation of these documents, but also to all those who joined in the work on them. In the discussions so far on the form and content of the annual information, there have been conclusions that I agree that these documents would be of even greater value if they were more coherent. It is important that regional action is an important part of these studies. This is understandable because most of the programmes implemented should be local in nature. It should be designed on the basis of a local diagnosis to meet the real demand. Unfortunately, the reports that have been presented to us so far lack one scheme to facilitate the compilation of data from different regions. It goes on, among other things. a comparison of actions carried out in cities and villages. It is difficult to determine the level or differences of social policy towards older people in each of the voivodships without a unified picture. I understand that this is due to the diversity of information sent to the Ministry. However, I welcome the assurance of the representatives of the Ministry who listen to the voices of the Senior Policy Committee and the Council. Senior policy has already announced that advanced work is underway to ensure that the data presented in next year's information shows a cross-section of the situation of older people in various parts of our country. Thank you once again for the undoubtedly hard work of the staff of the family ministry in preparing these documents and drawing up their conclusions. Thanks to it, in a clear and clear way, we can see and assess how much we have managed to do this next year. And the government of Law and Justice has done a lot for Polish seniors, among others. He fulfilled his electoral promises by reducing retirement age, increased the lowest pensions, introduced the program "Leks 75+" and a fixed cash supplement for anti-communist opposition activists and repressed persons, and recently also adopted "Emerity+"+. There was also a mother's pension. A five-minute speech is a little time to describe all the actions initiated by the current government. Nevertheless, there is still much to be done. However, in setting further priorities, we must bear in mind that senior policy is a long-term policy and that the effects of a large part of the changes launched today will only be visible in the years to come. However, it is also important to stress the importance of cooperation between the local government and the seniors themselves, who have the opportunity to get together in the councils appointed by the municipal councils of seniors, bodies which, according to the Local Government Act, have an opinion-advisory function and which in practice most often form seniors active in other dynamic local organizations. Unfortunately, it's currently at 2.5,000. Only about 400 senior councils were established. I trust that from year to year the attitude of self-governments will change and an increasing number of them will begin to appreciate the value that older people can contribute to the operation of the municipality. About Free and Solidarni accepts both information. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u381	Thank you very much. Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of you like to add yourself to the list of people asking questions? I can't see. I'm closing the list. He will be the first to ask the question of Mr Szczerba. One minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u382	High Izbo! I would like to ask the Minister of Health a question. For the last four years, geriatrics have not been a top priority. At 430 geriatrics in our country only half worked in this specialization. For 9 million seniors we have 900 geriatric beds. But the government can, of course, - and it has the necessary instrument - encourage young doctors to be interested in this specialization. What does it look like? Ladies and gentlemen! This year, the Minister of Health launched 26 residents in geriatric specialization. It's really a drop in the sea of needs. There are voivodships in which not one resident has been opened: pomorskie - 0, warmińsko-mazurskie - 0, zachodniopomorskie - 0, 4-million Mazowsze - 1 resident in geriatric specialization. I'd like to know how you're gonna... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u383	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Isabel Leszczyn, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u384	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! [[You have reflexes, Marshal. I believe you were trained by Marshal Terlecki.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u385	Too bad you don't have that reflex.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u386	Your Marshal, give me two seconds.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u387	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u388	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The fact that seniors, especially ill, lived badly in the Polish state in 2016 and 2017 we all know, but it is history. Not everyone knows that the real Gehenna of the PiS government has only given them now. Since July, seven pages of the questionnaire have to be filled out to get diapers. Seven pages for diapers. The PiS government says it's looking for savings, it's sealing the system. Are you saying you're looking for savings on diapers, spending millions on the promotion of Kaczyński's Fridays? You're saying you're looking for thieves and crooks among disabled and ill seniors? Why are you doing this to sick old people? Haven't any of you ever looked after a man for whom a physiological need is a challenge? You'll leave in the fall... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u389	I ask you to ask Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u390	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask if the number of unemployed is falling 50+ from 2016 to 2017 is due to demographic conditions or characteristics of solutions, more focused on younger people, dedicated to restoring the professional activity of Poles? That's the first line. Second line. I wanted to ask you what reflection you have on the questions that are being asked here, in terms of what the Civic Platform has done for the elderly. I'll just remind you of the way she treated them, raising their retirement age. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u391	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u392	High Seym! Senior, as long as he can, wants to live at his place. His greatest enemy is loneliness or lack of ability to maintain a large, oversized house or apartment. Hence Europe invented a whole spectrum of housing formulas for seniors. I will list here apartments serviced, apartments for seniors or cohousing formula, that is, cohabitation. To what extent can the government boast of achievements or in promoting such solutions, or building legal solutions that support this, or even projects that show that it is within your interests? For years I have been trying to interest the government, and this time I am doing it, with a senior enclave on the pheasant estate in Katowice, which is a wonderful experiment, carried out by an experiment of a city in the city, a capital balanced... [[♪ The bell ♪]] The structure... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u393	Thank you. I would ask you to ask Mr Grzegorz Furgo, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u394	High Izbo! Indeed, it is very sad to see empty government benches or an empty media gallery, and we are talking about an extremely important issue concerning older people who have problems such as loneliness, illness, disability, sense of unservice or life in poverty. Elders are generally not only afraid of disease, but are also afraid of loneliness and marginalization, because we have an ubiquitous cult of youth. The situation of older people in Poland is very difficult. There are, indeed, support facilities for elderly people such as social services, retirement homes or hospices, but it is very difficult to get there, also because of the costs. This report is unbelievably optimistic and archaic. Older people deserve respect and a decent experience in Poland [[♪ The bell ♪]] A good quality of life... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u395	Thank you. I would like to ask Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, PO-KO.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u396	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This report is optimistic because it's all statistics. This data can be read in any information. I think such a debate should be an attempt... [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u397	Mrs Leszczyna, do not disturb me. [[They're ill-mannered people.]] If you'd like to discuss it, I'd like you to leave.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u398	Such a debate should be an attempt to resolve the problems. I'd just like to point out... [[But you can't.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u399	Please don't interfere with the proceedings. [[I'm an envoy, and this is where I belong.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u400	I'd just like to point out three problems... [[Game in the O.R.]] I'm sorry, but I can't...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u401	Member, I can't help it. It's your clubmates who are bothering you. [[No, your marshal is bothering everyone.]] There you go, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u402	Can I start now?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u403	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u404	Thank you very much. Well, I'd like to get an answer to three questions. In fact, I'd like this debate to... [[So you can't finish your sentence...]] ...she was trying to answer the problems of the elderly and try to solve them. The first issue is the length of waiting for a doctor, a specialist's doctor. I don't think that's a problem from now on, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's not a problem of one or another government, it's a problem that's been going on for a long time. But if we have a report like this, we'd like to hear what's changing. It's the first thing.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u405	Thank you, Member. I've extended your time.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u406	I'm just gonna ask you one more question. The second case concerns housing. We've heard about the big footage. It's true, and it happens a lot, but I know there's already a bill in the Seym... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u407	Thank you very much, Member. I would like to ask Mrs Monica Rosa, the Modern Club, to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u408	Your marshal, but you spoke to the audience, and I couldn't ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u409	But I've extended your time. [[Wherever you're in a hurry, Marshal. And where are you in a hurry?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u410	But here's another one.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u411	I've extended your time. Member, please. I've extended your time. Member, please. [[Voice from the Chamber: Your Marshal to Brussels is in a hurry.]] [[Maybe you should've given me two minutes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u412	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, it is crazy that we are talking about two reports from 2 years, we have 5 minutes to speak and 1 minute to ask a question. I don't think that's what the debate is all about, but it's about looking into it in depth, regardless of who's in charge and who's in charge. That's the subject. It's just long-term. I hope that the Minister will address the issues that I raised in my first speech, and I will add two more points to that. Firstly, there is a question of violence and discrimination. Do you have any research into the use of violence, discrimination against the elderly? This is a phenomenon that is often difficult for older people to admit because they often experience violence, whether psychologically or economically, from the people closest to them. Do these tests exist? Are you doing this in any way? And the second point is the situation of pensioners who were once officers and whose state you have reduced pensions with this shameful bill. Are you even interested in the situation of these people, the level at which they live? These are dramatic stories about the lack of resources for treatment, but also about suicides. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u413	I would like to ask Mrs Krystyna Wróblewska, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u414	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to thank you very much for the senior policy implemented by the Government of Law and Justice. I would like you, Minister, to remind you what programs the Law and Justice Government is doing for seniors. And I would like you to recall how it is carried out and how the evaluation of these programmes is carried out and how seniors respond positively to our actions. And I'd like you to remind me how seniors reacted to an increase in retirement age by the Civic Platform and PSL government. During that time and how were pensions revalorised? And whether seniors were satisfied with your actions, i.e. the government of the Civic Platform and PSL. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: They were.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u415	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please answer the questions asked by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Stanisław Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u416	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for this debate, although I do not hide the fact that I am quite surprised by some statements from political parties, because we are talking about two reports, from 2016 and 2017. It is worth recalling where these reports came from. They came from a law which the previous Civic Platform coalition - PSL adopted in 2015 about older people. And that's actually the entire acquisition of this law on older people. This is the information we have, with the data we collected for 2016 and 2017. And there were no other solutions in this bill. Just this, which means gathering information. I'm not saying it's wrong, because Mom's information, information is needed so that we can... [[There were other laws.]] ...to hold a debate, but to hold a debate, not stories that have nothing to do with reality. If we look at the situation of people and what you have been asking here, comparing the situation of pensioners in previous years and now, this is a fundamental change. Let me give you just one example: the programme now is "Senior+" for the predecessors of "Senior - WIGOR" and at the end of the term introduced - 30 million, we have introduced an amount of 80 million. 50 million more. If... [[You cut it off first.]] We didn't cut anything. Don't lie to me, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u417	Mrs Leszczyna, I ask you very much not to disturb me. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Don't lie to me and stop yelling. [[First year, you cut it off.]] Don't disturb me, Mrs Leszczyna, for the last time. And I'm gonna start the routine. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: When we are talking about issues related to the level of the lowest pensions. From 1 March 2017 - 1000 zł pension, jump to this... Retirement for total incapacity for work - currently 1100 PLN. These are real resources that have been earmarked for people who are retired or retired. The question of this year's decisions we've made. Mother 4+, i.e. for each born fourth and subsequent child for mother or father there is a supplement in the amount of 1100 PLN gross, i.e. 888 PLN net. This is real support. Additional pension - similarly. At the moment from 1 March also the same amount. With regard to the programmes: 'Care 75+', this is what we talked about, 'Leki 75+', which you asked about, is working. If you wish to receive detailed data, we will, of course, send it to you after the committee meeting. If we are talking about the situation, this situation is definitely improving, but of course we need a discussion. One Member spoke about housing issues. This is ahead of us, such a discussion should take place and it should result in proposals for solutions. Therefore, I believe that what we have right now is a report on 2016 and 2017. These are collected information from individual resorts, from individual voivodships, to what extent these decisions affected the functioning of the laws themselves. And these programs that I said were: "Senior+" or "Mama 4+" or "Mama 4+" are all those programs that have significantly improved the situation of older people. Thank you. [[Applause]] Thank you. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u418	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Is it true that in 2016 the government of PiS allocated PLN 40 million to the implementation of the program, and in 2017 the amount of PLN 30 million? Why was government support for seniors for this purpose in 2017 lower by as much as 10 million PLN? I would also like to ask about the activation of older people in the labour market in 2016 and 2017. How many people were included in 2016 and 2017? What instruments were implemented in support of 50+ people's professional activity and how many people benefited from the activation offer in 2016 and 2017? And one last question about geriatrics. According to the report by NIK, the number of geriatrics in Poland differs significantly from the European average: in mid-2014 there were only 321 geriatrics, i.e. on average 0,8 geriatrics per 100 thousand. residents. In Germany, however, this ratio is 2.2, in the Czech Republic - 2.1 , in Slovakia - 3,1 and in Sweden - close to 8. As part of the 2016-2020 National Health Programme, a geriatric care scheme was developed to improve the diagnosis and treatment of older patients. A comprehensive geriatric care system is based on an adequate number of doctors of this specialty. How many geriatric doctors were in Poland in 2016, how many in 2017, and what actions does the Minister of Health take in order to systematically increase the number of these specialists in the following years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u419	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There's an election coming. It can be seen, heard and felt. The PiS government in fear begins its program with false concern plus. He's targeting seniors. That's a short description of what's been going on in the last few months, although it's actually paradoxically better than what they've been doing in the last few years... Ladies and gentlemen! The false concern of the PiS manifests itself in several actions. First of all, vote. As we all know, PSL submitted a non-tax pension project - a simple bill about removing the contribution burden from pensioners. They've already paid their taxes. That would allow the poorest - and that's 40%. Pensioners - gain about 200 PLN per month. It'd be for meds, the ones that were supposed to be free, and they're not. But no, the PiS in its malice punished pensioners, because not project applicants. They rejected it. In the vote, the parliamentary project went to the trash. PSL doesn't put up guns, and retired people ask: we want a pension without tax, not an election sausage from the PiS. So we raised over 100,000. We signed and filed a non-tax pension project as a citizen's project. So? Nothing. The PiS doesn't want to start working on this project. He's lying there, and the retirees are waiting. False concern plus is, however, a larger program. 'Cause what does it turn out to be? For 3 years PSL has submitted a bill about 500 PLN supplement for seniors for holidays. So? And every year, this project was rejected by the PiS. 3 years in a row - pensioners would get 1500 PLN, today the PiS offers them 1100 PLN before the election, and really 880 PLN. That's good. And this will probably be said by a senior whose retirement belongs to the lowest in the country. But Christmas is coming. Those before the election. And on the Christmas table also the fruit of PiS activities - more expensive. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, because, as it turns out, through actions or rather through stupid government actions, everything is going up. The yeast is progressing. According to data from the Polish Federation of Food Producers, the average Pole will spend over 600 PLN on holidays - almost 100 PLN more than last year. All because of the increase in food prices by a dozen percent. But it's not just the holidays that a man lives on. You have to eat every day, and if you're a senior, you still have to eat healthy. Mostly meats, sugar, bread, and vegetables. Plus, there's an increase in electricity prices. Good change? I don't think so. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, everyone who has the best interests of Polish seniors should ask to start work and quickly carry out the pension project without tax. This is a real improvement in the status of pensioners and pensioners, not some pre-election sham action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u420	The Senior Policy Committee calls for information on the situation of older people in Poland for 2016 and 2017. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 12 April this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. Please take the floor of Mr John Kilian, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u421	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This year is the 79th anniversary of the Katyn crime. In our collective memory it is associated with deprivation of life approx. 22,000. People. After the armed aggression against Poland on 17 September 1939, about 200,000 people were captured as a result of the defensive actions taken in Soviet captivity. soldiers. Contrary to all international conventions, they were handed over to the NKVD, which concentrated them in a special system of camps for Polish prisoners. Among them were many people of science and culture, lawyers, doctors, engineers, entrepreneurs as well as professionals. After the selection by the Soviets, individual and detailed interrogation of all prisoners and selection of people ready to cooperate with the Soviets, about 15 thousand others. The prisoners were located in several camps in Kozielsk, Miednoje, Ostaszkow and Starobielsk. Undoubtedly, a little known episode is a good self-organization of the lives of prisoners, convicts. Self-education courses, cultural activities, readings and even publishing were conducted. A special role in the camp's life was in the spiritual life of the condemned: participation in Holy Mass, evening services and receiving Holy Communion. These practices were severely punished by camp officers. Pursuant to a secret resolution of the Political Bureau of the Central Committee of the Universal Communist Party, the Bolsheviks of 5 March 1940 issued an order for the physical liquidation of Poles who were treated as enemies of Soviet power. In a secret memo addressed to Stalin there are signatures of several decision-makers, among them Stalin, Voroshilov, Molotov and Mikojan. It was they who sentenced thousands of Poles to death only because they were Poles and did not accept foreign occupation. On 3 April 1940, the first transport of prisoners sent from Kozielsk to Katyn on the basis of dispatch letters sent from Moscow took place from the camp. These letters were death sentences with one exception, a camp in the village - Pawliszczew Bor. There were prisoners who agreed to cooperate and which the Soviets were planning to use later to create divisions for them. Tadeusz Kościuszko. Until now, all the places where the prisoners were murdered have not been known. At the scene of the crime, the convicts standing over the pits of death were shot in the back of the head, sometimes pierced with quadrilateral Soviet bayonets. It is not quite clear what motive the USSR authorities were based on because there are no documents that could explain these issues. One hypothesis is the assumption of Stalin's personal revenge for the defeat of the Soviets in the 1920 defence war. According to some researchers of history, the reason was the desire to deprive the nation of the Polish leadership layers, our intellectual elites. The numerous victims of these crimes were representatives of the border population of the Second Republic. Another and perhaps most important goal for the aggressors was to prevent the rebirth of the Polish state. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Tomorrow, April 13th, as every year in my family The Gdansk Oldgard will celebrate the anniversary of the Katyn crime. From this point of view, I would like to stress the importance of this event and to ensure that it is spiritually connected with all the participants. On the list of victims of the Katyn crime are also the inhabitants of Kociewia. According to regional broadcasts, the list of kittens contains 76 names. Among these were officers, police officers, border guards officers, doctors, officials, bank workers and people of various professions. The death of martyrs at the hands of Soviet oppressors was also carried out by officers 2. Colonel Józef Trepto, Colonel Konstanty Maria Drucki-Lubecki and many others. The victim of the Katyn crime was my uncle, too. rez. Joseph Kilian. Before the war, he was in military service in 4. Company of Sick Infantry School, 1. Shooting battalions in Chojnice. He went to Starobielsk. The plaque with his name is located at the cemetery in Kharkov. For decades, the truth about the Katyn crime has been lied to. It was supposed to be kept secret. When the Germans took over the area near Smolensk after the aggression against the Soviet Union, mass graves of Polish officers were discovered. Under German occupation, an international commission was invited to inspect the crime scene. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Only a few decades after the war, for the presidency of Boris Jelcin, the truth about Katyn has been revealed. The lists of victims of Katyn's crime were provided to Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u422	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u423	Katyn is an example of war crimes against humanity, but the perpetrators have not been judged until today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u424	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Głuchowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u425	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Katyn and Smolensk - two names and one great desire for truth declared by Poles. Against the advice of the so-called. Reasonable and realistic, in opposition to silence and ridicule. Because truth is dignity, justice, identity, and in these particular cases it is also a confirmation of the nation's right to sovereign existence. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u426	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Jerzy Paul, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u427	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The policy of restoring the collective memory of the cursed soldiers is a good foundation, building our national identity in a united Europe. We should emphasize and remind on every occasion, and such an occasion is the coming anniversary of the winning battle of Kurylówka and the recent past anniversary of the murder of Janina Przyżniak, ps. Jaga. For several years we have been celebrating the next anniversaries of the Battle of Kurylówka, fought on 7 May 1945 by the guerrilla troops of the National Military Union with the forces of the NKVD. The battle went down in history because the soldiers who were cursed three times were able to resist the Soviet attacks. The guerrillas under Major's command showed a heroic attitude. Francis the Sorcerer, ps. Father Jan. Seven guerrillas and nearly 60 NKVD-zists were killed in the battle. The fights at Kurylówka were commemorated on the grave of the Unknown Soldier with an inscription on one of the boards. Janina Oleszkiewicz-Sagittarius, ps. Jaga, she was a liaison and paramedic for the Home Army. On January 11, 1944, she became the wife of Major. Francis the Sorcerer, who fought Germans, Ukrainian nationalists, Soviets and Communists. On Thursday, March 29, 1945, Janina, who was seven months pregnant, met her husband for the last time. Father John was to wait out the Easter period hidden in the Lewish monastery, while 22-year-old Janina was going to spend Christmas with her parents at her sister's in Leżajsk. On the night of Thursday on Friday, the public stopped Jaga. Despite her apparent pregnancy, she was interrogated and tortured all night long. In the morning, the security guard dropped Janina off at Kurylkowka. There, sneaky shots from the vending machine in the back, she was murdered. On Big Monday, April 2nd, Jagi's funeral was held, which turned into a huge manifestation. Responsible for the murder of Janina Swareman Officer Machai was shot and killed in the summer of 1945 during the attack of underground soldiers to the police station of the Citizen's Militia in Kamien. High Izbo! Communist power considered the cursed, including the family of the Juries, to be bandits. Today we know that they were great patriots who, in an unequal fight, defended the freedom and sovereignty of our homeland. Many of them, like Janina the Sorcerer, have lost their lives, but the memory of them remains. Praise the heroes. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u428	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Ostrowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u429	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to make a statement on the teacher strike. The extreme situation in education caused by the strike of teachers should be the starting point for a broad discussion on the reform of Polish education. Polish education has been neglected for many years, and its quality has decreased from year to year. Meanwhile - as Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki has also repeatedly stressed - Poland must be competitive not only through cheap labour but also through, in short, the power of intellect. I am very pleased that the Government of Law and Justice has begun to reform education. The crisis caused by the strike of teachers will only be won for Poland, for all Poles, if we do not limit ourselves to the topic of the remuneration of teachers, but we will consider further, necessary changes in the education system. At the same time, I would stress that parents should be an important party in this dispute, because they directly bear the burden of the imperfections of their children's education, forced to send them to tutoring, spending evenings and afternoons translating school material or preparing homework with them. The mass of these practices indicates that it is not a child who is so intellectually limited that without additional paid classes he will not get into prestigious studies or good high school, but it simply proves the imperfections of the Polish school. That's why I'm rooting for the government in further reform of the education system. Teacher increases should be linked to a change in the organisation of teachers' work, including among others. with an increase in the salary and with the educational results achieved. Numerously quoted OECD data show that Poland is in the last place in terms of the number of hours spent by the teacher at the board. This should be taken into account when discussing the Polish education system. I would like to extend my thanks to all those who replaced them during the teachers strike exams, so that such an important day in young people's lives went smoothly. They have shown great responsibility, social sensitivity and solidarity. Special words of appreciation and thanks are due to teachers who have not taken part in the strike. They also showed great personal courage and responsibility for their disciples. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u430	Thank you. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, PO-KO, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u431	High Seym! There is a time for the strike of teachers, there is a time for the anniversary of Katyn, Smolensk, so at a time where the present is burdened with problems, and the past - in memory, the parliamentary debate should be worthy and calm. We have just concluded - in quotes - a debate on the information of the Council of Ministers about the situation of the elderly. In this debate, whether or not the speech was strict whether the speech was emotionally motivated, or perhaps even malicious towards the rulers, your Marshal here watched time not as the organizer, the guardian of the parliamentary debate, but as an overseer, for whom the time button is a setup. [[The Vice Marshal shuts down the microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u432	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u433	Your Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u434	Mr. President, just a moment. Don't insult me. I specifically said one minute to ask the question. It is usually the case that a dozen Members in this 1 minute are getting busy. You're one of those people who doesn't make it this minute. Now is the time to tell yourself what you like. And I don't agree with that, and I have the right to make my point. You're welcome. [[The Vice Marshal turns on the microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u435	That's what this is, Marshal. I'm hoping you'll give me the time you took from me. Your marshal, not about...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u436	Yeah, I'll add, but please don't insult me, 'cause I guess when I set the time for one minute, it's 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u437	Your Marshal, if you had listened to it to the end, perhaps you would have been calmer in this debate and did not react when the Member had something to say, including you. It's just that one minute...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u438	Mr President, so that you really have something to say.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u439	I ran out, your marshal, to finish my sentence, seconds, maybe two. Other Members may have missed a few seconds. We were talking about seniors, serious stuff. Your marshal, every man who wants to maintain the basic principles of social relations, knows he doesn't interrupt. Every man, properly educated, and only such are in this room, can sense from intonation, from the melody of the sentence, where there is a comma, and where there will be a dot. I beg you, Mrs. and Mr. Richard Terletki, both of you, because you are aiming for this termination procedure: please listen, please don't be malicious. You are the organizer and guardian of the public debate. Be polite. That is what I am appealing for - also to you as a woman and a person who can be empathetic, because we know that - for this thought and holding back of the hand. One second, two or five won't save anyone, especially since we are very often early in these debates. Yesterday was almost empty. There was no rush, there's no rush. That is why Parliament is so that people can talk here, and the element of a good conversation is the possibility of putting a dot in a sentence, the element of a good conversation is that the interlocutor or the person who organizes the debate can understand where the dot is. I hope, Marshal, that you will not read these sentences as malice, but there is this... I say this from the heart and concern, because I wouldn't want the parliamentary hall to become a field, I know, just a fight or a conversation outside of the Seym. We don't want to, we don't have to, we don't want to protest from the benches. We would simply like to be respected in principle as Members who are as chosen as you are. The only difference is that we are standing one floor below this debate. Thank you very much. Consider these words as words of heart and words of kindness in fact. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u440	Mr President, let me say this: the rules are set by all. We are taking advantage of these Rules of Procedure and if you followed these Rules of Procedure, this would certainly not be the case. [[Just a second.]] And like I said, there are people who can... [[I'm always trying to be substantive.]] ...to fit in 1 minute, asking a question, because they ask questions, and they don't give lectures. So if you are calling for this respect, then let this respect be on both sides: for the one hand and for the other, and for compliance with the rules of procedure in this House. Please, Mrs Joanna Fabisiak. [[I was asking a question.]] And now you're still discussing things with me, aren't you? [[Well, I'm afraid it doesn't hit anything. Nothing.]] Nice to meet you, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u441	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I feel the same way, unfortunately, because even though I wanted to finish the question, your marshal was discussing it with the courtroom and I couldn't finish it. But it's okay, I'll finish up in the middle of the statements. The debate we have just had was a very important debate. Hence, it was only sad that questions could not even be formulated. Two lines. The first one I didn't finish. I have asked, please, and I will ask that in such debates we learn how problems are solved - problems that are important for seniors, not for rulers, not for parliamentarians. For seniors. That's the three problems I want to talk to you about. Of course I can turn and turn to the interpellation, I'll ask for an answer, but I thought this was the right place. The first question concerns long waiting for a doctor's appointment. That's the question I asked, so I'm not gonna repeat it. The second question concerned the situation of elderly patients in hospitals. Ladies and gentlemen, this situation seems... It was once, a long time ago, such a saying, probably stung by the authorities of the Polish People's Republic: let's help the party with action, let's die before the deadline. Very often people who come to me on duty or call me, cry that they are treated in the hospital as unnecessary, broken chairs or other equipment, not as human, old, sick. I understand the hospital can't help it if it has half the medical facility, medical care, no doctors. What's a nurse supposed to do? That is why I wanted to ask the question: What is being done about it? I'm not interested in statistics, I'm interested in specifics. I ask on behalf of old people, sick people. Finally, the third and final question. This applies to factory housing. This was the reality of the Polish People's Republic: the state built factory apartments or factories built their apartments. In these apartments, people have lived for 30, 40, 50, 60 years. But now those who live in these apartments 40 or 60 years old are thrown on the pavement or sold, like broken chairs, along with the building. There are two terrible hurts. It's mostly the harm of those people who probably deserve better than to be thrown out or sold. He sells them along with the building. This is bought by a private owner and he is bothering them terribly or cynically offering them another solution: that he will give compensation of 40%, 50%, 60% But it's not enough to buy an apartment. Those old, old people could take credit, but they can't afford a low-rent pension. I've been hearing about this, and I've been told in the appropriate ministry that there's a bill prepared. I just want to ask - and I will ask for an answer in writing - whether this bill will enter the Sejm and whether we will be able to proceed over it because it is extremely important. It seems to me that I have presented the problem fairly clearly and unpolitically, but the problem must be resolved by the government. If there's a bill, when are we going to process it? When will the situation of these people be resolved, old people being bullied just because they were working in some plant and they have apartments from there? There's another problem. These buildings are often bought at a priceless price, but then, after they've been thrown out, they're sold for ho, ho big money. It certainly loses the entire population very much, so it may be worth regulating this issue as well. I believe that she is also regulated in this bill. So when will this be presented to us, Members? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u442	Thank you. Mr Szczerba, PO-KO, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u443	High Izbo! I would like to inform you that today was the meeting of the Parliamentary Group for. Road Safety and that during this meeting, after discussing the situation related to vulnerable road users, including pedestrian situations, as Parliamentary Panel on Road Safety. The BRD took a stand on granting priority to pedestrians. We observe, High Izbo, that in Poland drivers are increasingly hitting pedestrians on crossings. Pedestrians today are the least protected group of road users. Today, pedestrians have priority on the road when they enter the crossing, but not before. Traffic law requires special caution when approaching the crossing, but does not refer to a situation where pedestrians intend to enter or enter the crossing. The Parliamentary team is in favour of introducing rules into the Road Traffic Law which would give pedestrians priority when they intend to enter the lanes, which indicates that they stand and wait for the transition. In such a situation, the driver would have to give priority - which would improve the safety of pedestrians - knowing that the first priority is not only for the person in transition but also for the person waiting. It would have to take even more care and reduce speed to a greater extent. This applies, of course, to drivers. In Polish law there are already rules from which the priority of pedestrians can be derived. Unfortunately, it is not a law, it is not a law on road traffic, but it is a regulation of the Ministers of Infrastructure and Home Affairs and Administration of 31 July 2002. This seems to be a good inspiration to take legislative action. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the principle that pedestrians have priority even before entering the transition, applies in the Scandinavian countries and in most Western European countries. The number of road fatalities per million inhabitants is much lower in these countries than in Poland. Unfortunately, the main reason for deductions in Poland is the failure to give priority to pedestrians on the transition. In the opinion of the Parliamentary Group on The BRD points to the need for new preventive measures to improve the safety of this least protected group of road users. Ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to reach for the statistics. Unfortunately, they are very disturbing. I feel like after the last report of the National Road Safety Council, you have to hit the alarm. The year 2018 was very unfavorable. For the first time in many years, the number of fatalities has increased. In 2018, 2862 people died, there were fewer in 2017, 2831 people, i.e. 31 fatal accidents, more deaths. This is very disturbing. We also point out that the main reason for the deductions was not to give priority to the pedestrian on the transition. We also support the actions of the Ombudsman and the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, who are addressing the Government with problematic proposals on this matter, calling on the Minister of Infrastructure to present a proposal to amend the law on road traffic by giving priority to pedestrians who are waiting to cross the road or enter it. We would like it, High Isbo, to be one of those cases that will have cross-party support. Every citizen's life, every citizen's health, every citizen's health is priceless, and in a situation where we have these statistics, we have the causes of accidents identified by the police, these numerous deductions due to the failure to give priority to the pedestrians at the crossing, we must act together. This is what I urge you to do in the name of caring for the safety of the road that is at our heart. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-12-sejm-80-2.u444	That concludes our parliamentary statements. The meeting shall be adjourned until 25 April 2019 at the latest. 10. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 17 min 11]]
