ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-13-senat-01-2.u1	I'm reopening the session. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. As you can see, this has already been done. I'm extremely happy about this. Before we continue to proceed, I would like to say, particularly to the ladies and gentlemen of the senators for whom this is the first term of office, that the appointment of a committee and the election of committee chairmen is an organisationally quite tedious process. If we want it to go smoothly, I appeal to everyone for time discipline, so that we can do it as efficiently as possible, especially since, as I hear, the negotiations between the groups have been quite fruitful. I'm hoping we can do this smoothly. Are there any conclusions on the agenda? You're welcome, Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-13-senat-01-2.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to Art. 48 (1) (a) 2 point 8 of the Senate's Rules of Procedure request that the agenda be supplemented by the following item: the election of the President of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs and consideration as item 5 of the agenda, i.e. after the point on the appointment of the Rules of Procedure Committee, and the point on the election of the Presidents of the Permanent Senate Committees and consider it as item seven of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-13-senat-01-2.u3	Thank you very much. Are there voices of opposition? Since there is no agenda, I accept that these items have been added to the agenda. We don't have to vote it out. We begin with the fourth point: the establishment of the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs. I'm explaining that it's kind of in quotes. The mother of all committees and the appointment of this committee gives us the opportunity to appoint other committees. The proposal for a Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators Committee is contained in print No 8. I inform that the following ladies and gentlemen came to work in the Rules Committee, Ethics and Senators: Grzegorz Michał Bierecki, Przemysław Jacek Błaszczyk, Marek Stefan Borowski, Jacek Bury, Robert Dowhan, Michał Tomasz Kaminski, Stanisław Karczewski, Andrzej Kobiak, Władysław Komarnicki, Tadeusz Wiktor Kopeć, Sławomir Piotr Rybicki, Joanna Sekuła, Krzysztof Marek Słoń, Wadim Tyszkiewicz, Wojciech Stanisław Ziemniak. We are voting on the establishment of a Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, a vote on the appointment of a Senate committee shall be held using electronic apparatus. We proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution. Who's in favour? Please raise your hand. Who's against it? Who's holding back? I don't have a card. Marshal, wait for the senator. Yeah, yeah, 'cause I don't have a card. I would be happy to do so on the basis of a special exception, especially at the request of Senator Skurkiewicz. I've already voted. I made it. Thank you very much. Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 96 were in favour, no one opposed, one abstention. [[Vote number three.]] I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the establishment of a Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the session will be adjourned in a moment, during which the first meeting of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee will be held. The Commission shall elect a candidate as chairman of the committee. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, I shall convene the first sitting of that committee immediately after the adjournment in room 179 has been announced. At the same time, I inform you that I am calling a meeting of the Senior Convention, which will take place 15 minutes after the announcement of the break. I'm ordering a 20-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 09 to 12 minutes 39.]] I'm reopening the session. Please take your seats. Senators, please. We proceed with the consideration of item five of the agenda: the election of the chairman of the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs. I remind you... [[It's a cell phone signal.]] I'm asking you to quiet down your electronic equipment. I would like to remind you that the first meeting of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators Committee was held during the break of the session, which elected a candidate as chairman of the committee. The proposal is contained in print No 9. The Committee on Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, as chairman of the committee, proposes Senator Sławomir Rybicki. I would also like to inform you that he took note of and gave a positive opinion at his first meeting of the Senior Convention. I ask Senator Marek Borowski to speak and present Senator Sławomir Rybicki's candidacy as chairman of the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-13-senat-01-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! It is a great pleasure for me to recommend to you this candidacy, Senator Sławomir Rybicki. It is easier for me that the senator is rather well known in this group, to those senators who do this function not for the first time, so there is no need to summarize the candidate's rich resume. However, it must be remembered that Senator Sławomir Rybicki, despite his young age... Kid! Yeah, I guess so. Young, young. Right? It's a flaw. Or is it an advantage? ...Despite his young age, he has a very rich charter of activities in the democratic opposition, from an early age. It should also be added that it is characterized by Everyone who knows him knows that. First of all, peace, great personal culture, complete lack of any aggressiveness in its political activities, desire to seek agreement, compromise, but also has tough rules. This is a special committee. There are rules, but there are ethics. Senator Sławomir Rybicki, which may not be known by all, for four terms the Sejm sat on the parliamentary ethics committee, so he has great, great experience. This historical memory is insanely important. And, of course, in his previous term, he was the chairman of this committee, and he did this job very well, I think. Yeah, I think that's the choice. And I'd like to add, by the way, that it was done unanimously. It's a very good choice. I am pleased and fully responsible to recommend the appointment of Senator Sławomir Rybicki as chairman of the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators. Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-13-senat-01-2.u5	Thank you very much. Would any of your senators like to speak on this matter? Thank you. We therefore proceed with the vote on the election of Senator Sławomir Rybicki as chairman of the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. [[Let's hear it.]] 97 senators voted, 95 were in favour, 1 against, 1 abstention. [[Vote number four.]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the election of the President of the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs. I ask the president to approach the presidential table. I'd like to give you a resolution on choice. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that there will be an adjournment in a moment during which the senators will be able to join the Senate committees. I would like to remind you that, in accordance with the Senate Rules of Procedure, each senator is required to submit his candidacy to the 1st Permanent Committee. At the same time, he may be a member of no more than 2 permanent committees. The model of the application to the committee was placed on the senator's bench. I ask the senators who have not yet filed a report to the committee to report the completed forms to the staff of the Senate Chancellery in front of the sitting room within 30 minutes of the adjournment notice. I'm in charge of 2.5. the hours of adjournment. The law firm needs three hours, but I've ordered by compromise that it's 2.5. Thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, due to different expectations, I extend the break until 4 p.m. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Enjoy your meal. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 47 to 17 minutes 46.]] Please take your seats. I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item six of the agenda: the appointment of permanent Senate committees. The proposal of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators on this matter is contained in print No 10. I would like the floor of the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee, Senator Sławomir Rybicki, and the presentation of the committee's proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-13-senat-01-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators Committee adopted today unanimously a draft resolution of the Senate on the establishment of Senate committees. This project is included in print no. 10 and is placed on senator benches. I will not read this very long resolution. I assume you've all been familiar with the proposal, which is the result of the indications of clubs and senate circles. I propose that we vote on this proposal for the composition of all Senate committees in one vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-13-senat-01-2.u7	Thank you very much, Senator. If I do not hear, I will not see any objection to this proposal, then I will understand that we can hold one collective vote on the committees, in accordance with the attached resolution. There's no objection. Then I'm in charge of the vote. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution presented by the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs. Who's in favour? Please press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. [[Vote number five.]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the appointment of Senate committees. Ladies and gentlemen, there will be an adjournment in a moment. I shall convene the first sittings of the newly appointed Senate committees during this break. At the first meetings, the committees shall elect candidates for the chair of the committee. The agenda for the first meetings of the Senate committees containing organisational information was laid down on the senator's benches. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to give an opinion on the candidates for presidents who will be notified by the committees, I am calling a meeting of the Senior Convention. It shall take place one hour after the adjournment is ordered. I would also like to inform you that, after the meeting of the Seniors Convention, there will be a meeting of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee, which will prepare draft resolutions on the election of the presidents of the Senate Committees. I would also like to add that I would like to ask for a meeting of the Senate Bureau, but on another matter. I'm ordering a two-hour recess. Go to your committee meetings. And the bureau meeting when? After the convention. [[Adjournment from 17 minutes 50 to 19 minutes 52.]] We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the election of the chairmen of the Permanent Senate Committees. At the end of the session, the Senate committees held meetings, which elected candidates as committee chairmen. The proposal of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators on this matter is contained in print No 11. I would like to inform you that he took note of the Senior Convention's applications and gave a positive opinion on them. I would ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Sławomir Rybicki, to speak and to present the committee's proposal to elect the presidents of the Senate Committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-13-senat-01-2.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Committee on Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs at its meeting today examined the committee's conclusions on the selection of candidates for the chairmen of the Senate committees. On the basis of the article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The committee shall submit the following draft resolution, adopted unanimously, to the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of today on the election of the chairmen of the Senate committees. Senate of the Republic of Poland on the basis of art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate elects Senator Kazimierz Kleina as Chairman of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance; Senator Marek Pęk as Chairman of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation; Senator Jan Hamerski as Chairman of the Committee on Infrastructure; Senator Barbara Zdrojewska as Chairman of the Committee on Culture and Media; Senator Kazimierz Wiatra as Chairman of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport; Senator Jarosław Rusiecki as Chairman of the Committee on National Defence; Senator Aleksandr Pociej as Chairman of the Committee on Human Rights, Law and Petitions; Senator Jan Filip Libicki as Chairman of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy; Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski as Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development; Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz as Chairman of the Committee on Territorial and Public Administration of the European Union; Senator Kazimierzator Ujadowski as Chairman of the Committee on Emigation and Communications; Senator of the Senator of the Senator of the Senator of the Senator of the Senator of the Senator of the Senator of the European Union; Senator of the Senator of the Senator of the Republic of the Senator of the European Union to the Senator's of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Senator of the Senator of the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-13-senat-01-2.u9	Thank you very much. I am now asking the representatives of the various committees to present the candidates for committee chair. I ask Senator Leszek Czarnobaj to speak and present Senator Kazimierz Kleina's candidacy as chairman of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-13-senat-01-2.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the committee, I would like to present Mr Kazimierz Kleina's candidacy. I could say that we all know him, and that's the end of it, but I'm gonna say two words, because not all of us are senators of one term. Kazimierz Kleina was the mayor of Łeba and pole voivode of the city, he was also an employee of the Market Economy Research Institute, since 1997 a senator and, what is important, worked and worked on the budget and finance committee all the time, he was also its chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Kazimierz Kleina is, in my opinion, a very good, outstanding public finance professional, and I would therefore ask you to support this candidacy.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-13-senat-01-2.u11	Thank you very much. I ask Senator Wojciech Piecha to speak and present Senator Mark's candidacy as President of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-13-senat-01-2.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to present the nomination of Senator Marek Pęka as Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Innovation of the Polish Senate. Senator Marek Pęk was born in 1975 in Rzeszów. In 2001 he graduated from the Faculty of Law and Administration at the Jagiellonian University in Cracow, and in 2006 he completed postgraduate studies in European Union law at the same university. Between 2002 and 2004 he was a legal assistant in several public limited companies, specialization of economic law and public procurement law. Between 2004 and 2009 he was a legal assistant to Members of the European Parliament. Between 2010 and 2014 he ran the legal advisory company Marek Pęk. He was senator of the ninth term, secretary of the Senate. Member of the National Council of the Public Prosecutor's Office, member of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Infrastructure, Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union. He was also Vice-Marshal of the Senate IX term. The Commission is asking for the appointment of Senator Mark Pęk as Chairman of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-13-senat-01-2.u13	Thank you very much. Now I'm going to ask Senator Alicia Zając to present Senator Jan Hamerski's candidacy as Chairman of the Committee on Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-13-senat-01-2.u14	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! On behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, I present the candidacy of Senator Jan Hamerski as Chairman of the Committee on Infrastructure. Jan Hamerski was born in Štiavnica. He graduated from the Jagiellonian University. He gained local government experience as mayor of the city and municipality of Szczawnica, vice-starost and starost of the Nowotar district, councilman of the Małopolska Voivodeship Sejmik, member of the Committee on Culture, also regional development committee, chairman of the Commission for the Regional Development. Strategy of the Carpathian Sejm of Małopolska Voivodship. He was a member of the Programme Council of the Institute of Intercultural Dialogue. John Paul II in Cracow. He is the honorary president of the Podhalan Union in Poland. He gained social experience as a regional activist, volunteer firefighter, mountain guide and rescuer of the Mountain Volunteer Rescue Service. Between 2015 and 2019 he was a senator of the 9th term of office and was a member of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Culture and Media. He was the chairman of the Senate Firefighters' Team, a member of parliamentary teams of history lovers, the traditions of small homeland heritage, the defence of Christians in the world and the Parliamentary Carpathian Team. He's married with two sons and four grandchildren. The Commission unanimously voted for Senator Jan Hamerski to chair the committee and asks for support for this nomination of the Committee on Infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-13-senat-01-2.u15	Thank you very much. Now I ask Senator Ewa Matecka to speak and present Senator Barbara Zdrojewska's candidacy as chairman of the Committee on Culture and Media.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-13-senat-01-2.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the candidacy of Senator Barbara Zdrojewska as Chairman of the Committee on Culture and Media. Barbara Zdrojewska is a cultural expert and has been active in the local government for 13 years, among others. in the Sejm of Lower Silesia and the City Council of Wrocław, always on the cultural committee. She ran the Contemporary Art Gallery on Solny. She was the President of the Lower Silesian Association of Arts and curator of the National Department of Fine Arts. Ossolinski. As Councilwoman, Chair of the Culture Committee, President of the City Council and President of the Sejm of Lower Silesia, among others. She reactivated the Jazz festival on the Oder, together with Olga Tokarczuk, which led to the creation of the International Festival "Tellings," participated in the preparation of projects: the European Capital of Culture, the National Music Forum, the Museum of Contemporary Wrocław, the Pavilion of the Four Domes. She was a member of the Committee on Culture and Media of the 9th Senate's term of office, and she is a member of this committee during the current term of office. High Izbo, I recommend Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, chair of the Committee on Culture and Media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-13-senat-01-2.u17	Thank you kindly. I now ask Senator Michael Sewerynski to present the candidacy of Senator Kazimierz Wind as chairman of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-13-senat-01-2.u18	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Senator Professor Kazimierz Wind is a professor associated with the Mining and Steel Academy throughout his life. That's where he studied and came, through all levels of scientific insight, to the title of professor. In his work he has numerous books, over 300 articles and papers. Associated with democratic opposition, independence. He is the creator of an independent scouting movement, especially the Circles of Scouting Instructors. Andrzej Malkowski. During the martial law and later he worked in the direction of the underground scout movement. For this activity he was persecuted by the communist system. For his independence work he was awarded the Bachelor's Cross of the Order of the Rebirth of Poland, given by the President of the Republic of Poland in the exile of Ryszard Kaczorowski. Senator VI, VII, VIII and IX of the term of office since 1980. In each of them he led the Scientific, Education and Sports Committee. Married, has three children, five grandchildren. The Committee on Science, Education and Sport recommends Senator Kazimierz Wind as Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-13-senat-01-2.u19	Thank you very much. I now ask Senator Rafał Silesian to present Senator Jarosław Rusiecki's candidacy as chairman of the National Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-13-senat-01-2.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! On behalf of the Committee on National Defence, I am pleased to recommend to you Senator Jarosław Rusiecki as chairman of this committee. Senator Jarosław Rusiecki graduated from sociology at the Catholic University of Lublin. He worked as an academic teacher and director of the museum. In local government activity he was a municipal activist, vice-president and councilman of the district. In social activity he is particularly involved in projects related to the history of Polish weapons and commemoration of the activities of guerrillas on Świętokrzyskie soil during the war and post-war period. He sat in the Seym for three terms and is now the third term of office in the Senate. During his last term of office in the Senate, he worked in the National Defence Committee, and during his last term he was chairman of the National Defence Committee. It has sufficient competence to perform this function again. He did a good job. As Vice-President, I was pleased to observe his ability to conduct committee work and communicate with representatives of the Armed Forces. I'm asking the Senate to support this candidacy. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-13-senat-01-2.u21	Thank you very much. Now I will again ask Senator Michał Seweryński to present the candidacy of Senator Aleksander Pociej as chairman of the Committee on Human Rights, the Law and Petitions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-13-senat-01-2.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions recommends that Senator Alexander Potoj be appointed chairman of this committee. Senator Alexander Pociej is an experienced senator, lawyer and legislator, a member of the Human Rights Committee in previous terms. He is an active participant of international fora, especially the Council of Europe, in which he actively participates, representing the Polish Senate. He is also an active member of at least two known to me from the experience of the Senate bilateral groups, the international group president of the Polish-French bilateral group and vice-president of the Polish-Japanese group. He speaks fluent French and English, which I can testify to. The Commission recommends this Senator as President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-13-senat-01-2.u23	Thank you very much. Now I ask Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska to present the candidacy of Senator Jan Filip Libicki as chairman of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-13-senat-01-2.u24	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! May I, on behalf of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, present the candidacy of Senator Jan Filip Libicki as chairman of this committee. Perhaps many of you know Senator Jan Filip Libicki, because this is the third term of his term in the Senate of the Republic of Poland. But before that, he was also a member of the V and VI term of office. Perhaps not all of you know that the senator is a historian. In 1996 he graduated from the Historical Faculty of the University. Adam Mickiewicz in Poznań. What is most important to him and what he always emphasizes is that he has devoted his whole life to working for and for people with disabilities. I ask the senators, on behalf of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, to support John Philip Libicki's candidacy as chairman of this committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-13-senat-01-2.u25	Thank you kindly. I now ask Senator Józef Łyczak to present the candidacy of Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski as Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-13-senat-01-2.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski graduated from the Center for Studies of Local Government and Local Development at the University of Warsaw. Since 1981, he has been involved in the union activity of NSZZ Individual Farmers. He was therefore very responsible after 2007 as President or Vice-President of the National Council. As far as the term of office in Parliament is concerned, Senator Chróścikowski is starting his sixth term in the Senate. In Senate IV, he was a member of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, in the sixth term he presided over the Committee on Agriculture and Environmental Protection and was a member of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, and in the VII and VIII term he was chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. High Izbo, agriculture has become and is the main department of the national economy, hence the role of the agricultural committee is special. Therefore, someone who has a very large theoretical and practical knowledge about agriculture can preside over this committee, and this person is Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski. I therefore request and ask the High House to support this candidacy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-13-senat-01-2.u27	Thank you very much. I now ask Senator Janusz Gromek to present Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz's candidacy as chairman of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-13-senat-01-2.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Zygmunt Frankiewicz, PhD in Habilitation, a scientist at the Silesian University of Technology. The longest President-in-Office of the city on the county's rights for 26 years. President Gliwice, a beautifully developing city. Husband of the first wife. Two kids, four grandchildren. A lot. [[Joy in the gym.]] For almost 20 years, Chairman of the Silesian Association of Municipalities and Districts. Since 2015 President of the Polish Towns Association I had the pleasure of working with the senator there. Member of the Joint Government and Local Government Commission, Chairman of the Board of the Association of Municipalities and Districts of the Central Silesian Voivodeship Subregion. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration recommends Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz. I'm asking for your support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-13-senat-01-2.u29	Thank you very much. Now I will ask Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz to speak and present the candidacy of Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski as chairman of the Committee on Immigration and Communication with Poles abroad.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-13-senat-01-2.u30	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad the candidacy of Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski as chairman of the committee. Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski is an outstanding politician. He comes from a family of prominent politicians and lawyers. Mr. Senator Kazimierz Mieczysław Ujazdowski's father was also a Member of our Sejm. Mr Kazimierz Ujazdowski has been in the democratic opposition for a young age. Then he entered parliamentary structures, was Minister of Culture and Art in Jerzy Buzek's Government, he was also Minister of Culture and Art in Kazimierz Marcinkiewicz's Government and Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński's Government. He's a professor of extraordinary law, a lecturer, he writes books. He was a member of many terms. As you can see, I know his resume by heart, because I had the privilege of working with the Minister to work for him. Of course, he was a parliamentarian, and now he's a senator of the Civic Coalition. He's no stranger to immigration. As Minister of Culture and Art and as Member, he not only dealt with the problems of Poles abroad in their private, personal and social matters, but also supported Polish heritage abroad, abroad. I must say that as our candidate for senator from the Warsaw district he received very high support from Poles living abroad, for which we thank Poles very much. It's at the 60% limit. This is proof that Senator Kazimierz Ujazdowski enjoys great respect. He's the father of three children. We recommend him unanimously, only one, Mr Marshal, with a abstention, because Mr Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski, as from a good family, did not vote for himself. And a mistake. And very cordially... And there's no trust... [[Joy in the gym.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-13-senat-01-2.u31	Thank you very much. I will now ask Senator Marcin Bosacki to present the candidacy of Senator Bogdan Klich as President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-13-senat-01-2.u32	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is a great honor for me to present Senator Bogdan Klich's candidacy as President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union. You could talk a lot about Mr. Senator, also about his merits in the independence movement, anti-communist in the 1970s and 1980s, when he was among others. co-founder of the Independent Student Association and the Freedom and Peace Movement. But I'm going to concentrate on a few words about his extraordinary foreign policy competence. Of course, he dealt with foreign and strategic matters even when he was Deputy Minister and then, for four years, Minister of National Defence. Later, both in the Seym and in the Senate of the 8th term, he served as Foreign Affairs Committees. In the European Parliament, he was chairman of the Belarus Committee. Senator Klich was also an advisor to the government's representative for negotiations with the European Union in 1998 and 1999. On behalf of the committee which, without objection, recommended Senator Klich's candidacy, I would ask the High House to accept the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-13-senat-01-2.u33	Thank you very much. I now ask Senator Alicia Zając to present Senator Zdzisław Pupa's candidacy as chairman of the Environment Committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-13-senat-01-2.u34	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, the candidacy of Senator Zdzisław Pupa as chairman of this committee. Senator Zdzisław Pupa is a farmer by education. He is a self-government officer, a politician, a Member of the Sejm III term, then a Vice-President of the Agriculture Committee, and then a Senator VII, VIII, IX term, at that time twice the Chairman of the Environment Committee, and in one term Vice-President of the Committee on the Environment. Senator Pupa is a very popular person in Podkarpacie, where he comes from and where he works every day. It is always elected in the elections with a result of more than 60%, in the last elections it was 73%. He is a member of the Solidarity of Individual Farmers. For a short period of several years he also worked in the Sejmik of Podkarpackie Voivodeship. The Commission unanimously recommends the appointment of Senator Zdzisław Pupa as chairman of the Environment Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-13-senat-01-2.u35	Thank you very much. I now ask Senator Leszek Czarnobaj to present the candidacy of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski as chairman of the Legislative Commission.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-13-senat-01-2.u36	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! On behalf of the Legislative Commission, I would like to present Mr Krzysztof Kwiatkowski's candidacy as chairman of this committee. Mr Krzysztof Kwiatkowski's candidacy was supported by all members of the committee. Mr Krzysztof Kwiatkowski was senator of the 8th term of office, i.e. he has experience of sitting in our House. He was chairman of the Legislative Commission. When he led the work of this committee, he prepared several dozen draft laws, subsequently adopted by Parliament and implementing the Constitutional Tribunal's provisions. So it's about fulfilling what's been, what's been, and I hope so. It will also be part of the work of the Senate. He was a member of the seventh term of office, chairman of the Extraordinary Commission on changes in codification. He was Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice and then, in 2009 and 2011, Minister of Justice. Between 2013 and 2019 he was the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber. Between 2017 and 2019 he was vice-president of the European Organisation of Supreme Audit Authorities and a representative of Europe at the International Organisation of Supreme Audit Authorities. Between 2002 and 2006 Vice-President of Zgierz and then Vice-President of the Sejm of the Łódź Voivodeship. So he's got it right here. also important local government experience. He was a member of the Polish Paralympic Committee and vice-president of the National Coordination Commission of the Independent Student Association. He was awarded by the Hungarian President by the Commander's Cross with the Star of the Order of Merit of the Republic of Hungary. In 2014, he received the title of Doctor of Honoris causa awarded by the University im. Aleksandra Moisiu in Durrës, Albania's second largest university. Bravo. On behalf of the committee, I recommend that Mr Krzysztof Kwiatkowski be appointed President of the Legislative Commission.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-13-senat-01-2.u37	Thank you very much. I now ask Senator Alicia Chybicka to present the candidacy of Senator Beata Małecka-Libera as Chairman of the Health Committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-13-senat-01-2.u38	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, senators! I have the honour to present Beata Małecka-Libera's candidacy on behalf of the Health Committee. In 1979 she graduated from the Silesian Medical Academy, a specialist in laryngology and public health. She graduated from the Jagiellonian University in Cracow in the field of health care management. For many years she worked in a specialist hospital in Dąbrowa Górnicza as a doctor of laryngologist. Between 1996 and 2000 she served as director of medical affairs of that hospital, and then until 2005, chief director. From 2005 to 2019 she was a Member of the Polish Parliament, i.e. a Member of the V, VI, VII and VIII term, and since 2008 Vice-President of the Sejm Committee on Health. In 2015, she was appointed Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health and Government Plenipotentiary. Public Health Act. The senator presided over various public health groups, initiated a series of conferences in the Sejm and in the country. The subject of prevention and health promotion has always been particularly close to her. She also has local government experience, she was a councillor of the city of Dąbrowa Górnicza. She was awarded the title of the Dwarf Manager and the Golden Medal of Albert Schweitzer's World Academy of Medicine, she was also awarded numerous resort badges. She's always been very active in the fight for the well-being of her patients. The Health Committee unanimously voted for Beata Małecka-Libera as Chairman of the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-13-senat-01-2.u39	Thank you very much. We therefore proceed with the vote on the election of the chairmen of the Senate committees. I would like to inform you that the vote on the election of the presidents of the Permanent Senate Committees will be held individually over each candidate using electronic apparatus. We are voting on the election of Senator Kazimierz Kleina as chairman of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I find 98 senators voted, 98 senators voted. Okay, okay, [[Vote number six.]] [[Let's hear it.]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the election of the chairman of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. We are voting on the election of Senator Marek Pęk as chairman of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Vote number 7.]] [[Let's hear it.]] We are voting on the election of Senator Jan Hamerski to chair the Committee on Infrastructure. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Before they show up, I'm gonna give you 98 votes in favour. [[Vote number eight.]] [[Let's hear it.]] We are voting on the election of Senator Barbara Zdrojewska to chair the Committee on Culture and Media. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I'm asking you kindly to give me the results. [[Vote number nine.]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the election of the chairman of the Committee on Culture and Media. [[Let's hear it.]] We are voting on the election of Senator Kazimierz Wind as chairman of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. [[Vote no. 10]] [[Let's hear it.]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the election of the chairman of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport. We are voting on the election of Senator Jarosław Rusiecki as chairman of the National Defence Committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. [[Vote number 11.]] [[Let's hear it.]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the election of the Chairman of the Committee on National Defence. We proceed with the vote on the election of Senator Aleksander Potiej as chairman of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. [[Vote number 12.]] [[Let's hear it.]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the election of the chairman of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Read the results? Yeah, yeah. Okay... [[Talking in the O.R.]] We are voting on the election of Senator Jan Filip Libicki as President of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 votes in favour, 0 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 13.]] [[Let's hear it.]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the election of the President of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy. We are voting on the election of Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski as Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 votes in favour, 0 against, no one abstained. [[Vote 14.]] [[Let's hear it.]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the election of the Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. We are voting on the election of Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz as chairman of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. I say 98 votes in favour, 0 against, no one abstained. [[Voting number 15.]] [[Let's hear it.]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the election of the chairman of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. We are voting on the election of Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski as chairman of the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. I state that 98 ladies and gentlemen of the senators voted, 95 were in favour, 2 against, 1 abstention from the vote. [[Vote number 16.]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the election of the chairman of the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad. [[Let's hear it.]] We are voting on the election of Senator Bogdan Klich as President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. I state that 98 ladies and gentlemen of the senators voted, 93 were in favour, 0 against, and 5 senators abstained. [[Vote number 17.]] [[Let's hear it.]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the election of the President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union. We are voting on the election of Senator Zdzisław Pupa as chairman of the Environment Committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 96 were in favour, 0 against, 2 senators abstained. [[Vote 18.]] [[Let's hear it.]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the election of the chairman of the Committee on the Environment. We are voting on the election of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski as Chairman of the Legislative Commission. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. I find that 98 senators voted, 96 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. [[Vote number 19.]] [[Let's hear it.]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the election of the President of the Legislative Commission. We are voting on the election of Senator Beata Małecka-Libera to chair the Health Committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 Senators voted, 97 votes against and 1 abstention. [[Vote 20.]] [[Let's hear it.]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the election of the chairman of the Health Committee. I now ask you to approach the presidential table of the elected chairmen of the Senate committees. I'd like to give you a resolution. [[Talking in the O.R.]] The resolutions are one-sounding, so I will only read the text to all of you once. Resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of 13 November 2019 on the election of the chairmen of the Senate committees. Senate of the Republic of Poland, pursuant to art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, elects Senator Kazimierz Kleina as Chairman of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances; Senator Marek Pęk as Chairman of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation; Senator Jan Hamerski as Chairman of the Committee on Infrastructure; Senator Barbara Zdrojewska as Chairman of the Committee on Culture and Media; Senator Kazimierz Wiatra as Chairman of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport; Senator Jarosław Rusiecki as Chairman of the Committee on National Defence; Senator Aleksandr Pociej as Chairman of the Committee on Human Rights, Law and Petitions; Senator Jan Filip Libicki as Chairman of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy; Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski as Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development; Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz as Chairman of the Committee on Territorial Affairs and Administration of the State; Senator Kazimierz of the Commission as Chairman of the Senator of the Senator of the Republic of the Commission; Senator of the Senator of the Republic of the European Union to the Commission. Now let me give you a resolution. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Let's hear it.]] Dear Senators, you will, of course, be informed by electronic means of the date of the second meeting and of the agenda of this meeting. I would like to inform you that the agenda for the first Senate meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements whose contents cannot be determined or whose delivery by the senator would not be possible within 5 minutes. The statement shall not be discussed. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Would any of your senators like to speak? There are no calls. I'm asking the secretary to read the messages... There's no messages. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the first sitting will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The first sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland X term of office is closed. [[The Marshal hits the Marshal's staff three times.]] [[The sitting is adjourned at 20 minutes 37.]]
