ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u1	Resume session. I ask the senators of the secretaries to take their seats at the president's table. In a moment, ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the examination of item twenty-six of the agenda: information from the activities of the National Judicial Council in 2018. We're about to start... Well, we're waiting because the chairman is supposed to be in the Senate, but he hasn't reached the courtroom yet. I'd like you to invite Mr. Chairman... [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] It is, isn't it? Welcome to the Senate meeting of the President of the National Judicial Council, Mr Leszek Mazur. The text of the information is contained in print No 1190. The Senate Marshal sent the information received to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. The Commission took note of the information submitted at its meeting on 25 June 2019 and informed the Senate Marshal accordingly. I would like to ask President Leszek Mazur to speak and present the information. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present information on the activities of the National Judicial Council in 2018. I had the opportunity to present such information last year, except that it was the information that actually concerned the activities of the Council in the previous composition, and this is the information concerning the activities of the Council, which was established according to the new formula. In 2018, the National Council Act was partially amended several times. Namely in December... i.e. there was a law from December 2017, which entered into force in April 2018. These amendments concerned the election of judges to the National Council by the Sejm, the joint term of office, the re- fill-in of the term of office of a member of the Council before the end of the term of office, the round-the-clock vote, the transmission of deliberations, the consultation of the Minister on each individual matter. Later, the Law of 10 May 2018 amending the appointment procedure for the position of judicial assailant followed by the Act of 20 July 2018, which concerned changes in the procedure of the Supreme Court's cast. The main statistical information on the work of the Council is provided on page 37 of this report. The Council shall, in principle, work at meetings. These meetings took place in 17 days, which took 59 days. The Council adopted 507 resolutions on personal matters, which resulted in a request to the President to appoint 322 persons to serve as judges at various levels. The Council's teams held 181 meetings. There have been discussions with 301 candidates, 7 court presidents and faculty presidents. The Council in its new composition started work on 27 April. The first meeting was then held at which the President and Vice-Presidents of the Council were elected. For 4 months, the Council worked in the previous composition, except that this work of the Council in the previous composition was, you can say, somewhat enduring, because only 23 resolutions were taken at these meetings from January to 3 March, when the last meeting took place. The Council has already adopted these resolutions in its new composition 747. This shows that the Council's work in 2018 is divided into two distinct periods. Those 322 people whose board prepared opinions to present to the president were selected from 1 000 302 candidates who applied for the competitions. It is worth noting and giving information which gives a lie to information that occurs especially during the initial period of our work, that these competitions or announcements of the President or the Minister of Justice are boycotted by legal environments. Well, those 1,302 candidates who applied for the competitions were, of course, judges who were about 200, but also 29 assistants of judges at various levels, 20 referees, 11 lawyers, 9 prosecutors, 17 lawyers and 15 other persons, including academics, tax advisers, employees of state offices. So the selection of these candidates takes place from different backgrounds. I would also like to clarify a point. Well, on page 43 there is a table indicating the number of resolutions deviating the proceedings, and this applies to 210 candidates. And I'm explaining because she's been given that kind of information. She was also presented by the President of Zawistowski, the President of the Supreme Court, who was also the Chairman of the Board. That these redemptions as a result of withdrawal of applications are just a manifestation of some kind of boycott. That is not the case, because the withdrawal of applications is purely technical. Candidates who have not received a positive opinion in a particular competition withdraw their applications to submit to the next competition, and sometimes do so several times. These 92 candidates, who were presented to the President, were judges of different levels, but the highest number were judges of the Supreme Court, 42 of them, because it was one of the most important competitions that were held by the National Judicial Council last year. In this way, 40 posts were placed. This procedure of the Supreme Court has been substantially amended in comparison with the procedure of the previous period. It is carried out in full by the National Council, and in a transparent way, which, of course, involves increased time-consumingness. Over 200 candidates have applied for this competition. With all these candidates, the National Council teams held meetings and interviews. In the previous period, during the four-year term, the Council recognised 18 candidates for the Supreme Court and filled 12 posts. By comparison: here were 40 posts and 200 candidates. In nominating matters, of course, there is an appeal procedure. In 2018, 57 such appeals were lodged. In 14 cases, decisions were given by the Board of Appeal, in 15 no. The number of cases found is relatively small, but it follows that in 15 cases the Supreme Court suspended the appeal proceedings by submitting questions for a preliminary ruling to the Court of Justice of the European Union. The Council also deals with the retiring of judges. 43 resolutions were issued on the transfer. In 8 cases, the Council refused to move to rest. The Supreme Court recognised 1 appeal concerning the transfer of the judge to rest and dismissed the appeal. An important competence of the Council is the opinion of legal acts, i.e. such an advisory participation in the legislative procedure. In 2018, 134 projects were submitted for opinion, 119 opinions were issued. In 27 cases this concerned changes to the codes, well, practically all codes The code of civil, criminal, administrative, criminal, criminal, civil, criminal enforcement, protective and electoral proceedings. A summary of all the opinions can be found on page 65.78. The Council also held positions on various matters relating to the functioning of the judiciary. Such positions were issued by Council 17. In 2 cases they were issued by the bureau. They dealt with the issues of deputy Disciplinary Officers in the District Court, so-called. good supervisory practices, the retirement age of women, the dismissal of presidents, vice-presidents on the basis of an extraordinary transitional provision, the data underlying the assessment of qualifications for the judicial position, the composition of the college of the district court, as well as the situation in the Supreme Court when this situation was subject to a strong public interest. In 2018, the Council made use of the powers provided for in Article. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2 of the Constitution, namely, it requested that the Constitutional Tribunal examine the compatibility of the provisions of the Act on the National Judicial Council. The judgment was delivered on 22 November 2018. It was about obtaining the Court's reply on the status of the National Judicial Council and the compatibility of the law with the Constitution. This was called into question from various directions, but none of the parties who raised such doubts took advantage of the possibility of submitting an application to the Constitutional Court. In the information there is 1 small chapter devoted to so-called. Honors. From 2014 to 2018, i.e. the previous term of office, there was an award for the Justice Deserved, which was abolished on 3 March 2018. In February 2018, the former National Council was honoured with this award by the first President of the Supreme Court, the 3 Presidents of Chambers, the former Presidents of Appeal Courts in Wrocław, Katowice and Szczecin, and the President and Vice-President of the National Court Council. In the National Council of Courts, one conference was held last year, namely on 7 December 2018, devoted to the century of independent justice in Poland. Three papers were given - by the professor... [[Maybe he can do something about the microphone.]] [[I can't hear you.]] [[You can't hear 'cause you're talking in the O.R.]] ...Mieczysława... [[But, sir, don't disturb me. Mr. President, a little closer to the microphone, maybe it'll sound better.]] Yeah, yeah. [[I'd also like a loudspeaker.]] This conference took place on 7 December 2018. Three papers were given - by Fr. Professor Mieczysław Różański, Professor Anna Łabno, Mr Bogumil Szmulik And a paper by a foreign guest, Dr. Martin Mendelski. As regards the activities of the Council in the area of international cooperation, it is from the nomination of the National Council in the so-called. The European Judges' Consultative Board was represented by Judge Catherine Goner and later by Judge Teresa Kurciusz-Furmanik. The work in this council resulted in a report on the prevention of corruption among judges. The opinion was put forward in Zagreb by Judge Mitera in November 2018. The Council was in place for a period of time, but was finally suspended from the European Judicial Council Network. In June, a consultation meeting took place in Lisbon, and later in Warsaw we hosted representatives of the Executive Council of this organisation, and on 17 September I attended an extraordinary meeting in Bucharest, at which a resolution was adopted, questioned by us, about the suspension of us in the rights of a member of this organisation, although we receive signals indicating the possibility of renewal or re-taking of this cooperation. Other international events involving members of the National Council include: work within the framework of so-called Justice Scoreboard, which is such a scoreboard of justice that gives and analyze statistics showing the work of justice in different countries. The work of this forum has become permanent as a result of the establishment of a team of experts. Ms Kołodziej-Michałowicz participated in the work of these experts twice in September and then in December 2018. In addition, a meeting was held in Oslo in May 2018, attended by the National Council spokesperson, Judge Mitera, on the functioning of the Norwegian Financial Mechanism. In addition, in Paris you were also Judge Mitera and Judge Drajewicz on the Monitoring Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Two times you were in Germany, Judge Dudzicz attended a conference at the German Academy of Judges in Wustrau, as well as a meeting in Berlin with representatives of the Federal Republic of Germany's Justice Ministry. I was in Vilnius, where in October 2018 I participated in the so-called. The Vilnius Forum. This is a conference of judges of constitutional tribunals of Georgia, Lithuania, the Republic of Moldova and Ukraine. It was also related to the celebration of the 25th anniversary of the Constitutional Tribunal of Lithuania. And maybe, finally, I will briefly mention the function of identifying complaints that affect the National Council from different institutions and citizens. Such letters initiating various complaints or checking received 8 000 313. The Commission for Complaints, Requests and petitions dealt with 425 cases; the Disciplinary Responsibility Committee - 352; the Visitation and Appreciation Committee - 49; the Professional Ethics Committee - 58. I will provide further supplementary information on disciplinary proceedings, since the public was presented with such an image of the National Council as an institution which disciplines judges very strongly and in an unauthorised manner initiates disciplinary proceedings, it is aimed at conducting disciplinary proceedings. Well, the disciplinary commission recognized 352 cases. In 2 of them, she asked the disciplinary officer to take explanatory action. We did not appeal to disciplinary decisions of the courts of first instance, even though 16 such judgments were presented to the Council. In 17 cases, this was not possible because the authorisation took place before the date of the Council meeting. Well, I think that's the basic information I've been trying to provide in a fairly condensed way. And that's where I'd end this part of my speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Would any of you senators like to ask Mr President a question? You're welcome, Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[But no... here you go. 3 people ask questions and the President answers.]] Mr President, this information sounds as if everything around the KRS is going according to the expectations of the judge's environment and according to the law. On 30 August 2018, the Supreme Court referred questions to the Court of Justice of the European Union concerning the selection of the members of the National Courts and their independence from the legislative and executive powers, with such a question as to whether the formation of the National Court of Justice could give an opinion to the Supreme Court and whether the judges therefore have the advantage of independence, independence within the meaning of European Union law. Following this meeting of representatives of the courts, including e.g. the district court in Warsaw, do not give an opinion to the candidates for the courts because they fear that the judgment of the TSUE in this case will question the legality of the KRS and its decisions. How would you like to comment on this situation, which, after all, threatens a complete disaster with regard to the case law and the legal consequences for the justice system, but also for all those who have a legal interest, including those who are judged? Please comment on this.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u5	Senator Shark.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u6	Thank you very much. I have a question. Mr President, could you tell us where we could get information on the list of support for your candidacy as members of the National Judicial Council? That's one question. May I ask, Mr. Marshal, for the second time, or... [[Yes, if it's in a minute, Senator, yes, please.]] Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay. Again, because last year I asked you that too... There were these subtitles, and I'm sure you remember that judges steal drills and sausages. And the House of the EU Court of Justice challenged these texts and there was a second hearing on the legality and legality of the EU law of yours... not yours, I'm very sorry, but these very terms. I have a question: have you agreed... And at that meeting before the TSUE, when it was justified by the Ministry's representatives by the correctness of the changes that had just been implemented, it was once again referred to robbers in toga. Could you tell me if you could point out whether or not you've established these thieves among the judges, and what have you done with that knowledge? And if there are no judges like that, then when are you gonna correct it and...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u7	Now, thank you very much, Senator. I'm just paying attention... I ask you to ask questions about the activities of the subject matter of the point in question, which is the activities of the National Judicial Council in 2018. So far, no questions have been asked in this regard. You're welcome, Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u8	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask, 'cause there's been a court order recently... Sorry, it has recently turned out that the activities of the Polish National Foundation related to the campaign of slandering judges were illegal, incompatible with the statute. I would like to know what KRS, which is committed to upholding the independence of the courts and independence of judges, has taken action on this slanderous campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u9	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u10	Let me first answer the question that has already sounded, which I have already heard and to which I answered last year, namely the letter of support. Well, according to my knowledge, these letters of support are at the disposal of the Marshal of the Sejm. We've made a resolution. Or we took a position in favour of the position of Marshal of the Sejm, in accordance with the laws in force. The situation has changed in such a way that the year has passed, the procedure for the disclosure of these letters has been practically terminated and, as I recall, the final judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court in this case is final. But it is not us, not the National Council who is the addressee of this decision, and we cannot do this duty. The discussions in the Council show that there seems to be such a belief that the reasons for not publishing these letters are slowly disappearing. The atmosphere last year was tense, hot and we were dealing with cases of some ostracism. I have declared my willingness to reveal this list, but I am bound and bound by the position of the council and the legal state. As I say, we are not the recipients of an obligation arising from a judicial decision. As far as the issue of the campaign by one of the institutions is concerned, by a senator who has been judged slanderous, I would like to say that I would like to go back to the part that concerns our activities in the area of disciplinary responsibility of judges. I do not think that the data I provide does not support our behaviour in a very restrictive way or in order to enforce this responsibility and repression of judges very harshly, these figures definitely contradict that. And the functioning of some institution that carries out a billboard campaign is an expression of public expression on important topics. And these are topics of interest to the public. If any legal or ethical boundaries are exceeded, then there are measures to enforce responsibility in this area, but it is not a role, it is not a matter of advice to search, as your senator has stated, these stealing drills. Or sausage. There are institutions that deal with such cases. Besides, these aren't cases that were invented, they were the subject of proceedings. Not only prosecutors, because these cases were finalized in the courts, there were judgments. While in Luxembourg and taking part in this hearing before the European Court of Justice, I listened to the statements of the prosecutor representing the Attorney General, Mr Szafrański, who quoted these cases in a very precise, very specific manner, describing specific events. And there was no place for, so to speak, publicistics, but these were very concrete and documented statements. But, as I say, it is not the role of the National Council to engage in some kind of off-the-book procedure, because that's what other institutions are for. As regards the status of the National Council, which was and is being examined by this European Court, I can answer this question in this way. I quoted here the ruling of the Constitutional Court of 22 November 2018, which was the answer to our request. In principle, the Court recognised the compatibility of the laws governing the status and operation of the National Council with the Constitution. On a slightly different level, the Court of Justice of the European Union deals with this compatibility because it examines the compatibility of these provisions with EU law. These are, however, different orders and different relationships. Such a valid document, which sums up the current stage of this procedure, is the opinion of the Advocate General, Mr Tanczew, with whom we generally disagree, because the procedure in this case goes beyond the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice, because it deals here in our opinion with the internal affairs of Poland. In addition, the questioning of the status of the National Judicial Council was carried out in such a way that the Ombudsman constructed an ideal model of judicial councils, ideal in the sense that the method of appointment and construction of councils in individual countries have no basis in EU law. This compilation is such a combination of regulations functioning in different Member States, but the creation of such a model and the examination on this basis of concrete solutions in Poland would mean the analysis of our solutions, Polish regulations, by the prism of the laws in force in individual countries of the European Union, and not the rules of EU law. In addition, this proposal alleging the dependence of the National Judicial Council on the executive authority and the legislative authority and requesting total independence is simply completely impossible, for example because it has never been questioned that the Council consists of, among others. from Members and Senators, as well as from the President's representative, which implies a certain dependence on the institutions concerned. If we add the presidents of the Supreme Court and the Supreme Administrative Court sitting on the board here And these are the people appointed by the President. It's this relationship that would be pretty much 100%. Moreover, questioning the status of the National Judicial Council because 15 judges were elected by the Sejm would mean that there is a question in which the judges represent 68% of the composition of the Board, and there are no disputed solutions in which there are no judicial councils at all and the appointing of judges takes place with direct participation of the executive authority, e.g. Ministers of Justice. Moreover, the Court of Justice of the European Union alone would not meet those criteria, which the Ombudsman pointed out in this opinion to be not to mention any judicial council in Europe. Because the judges sitting there are pointed out by the Member States, in fact by the heads of state or by governments, even after the other countries have accepted the candidates. Well, it's even a double dependence on executive power. So that our position is that we do not see grounds for questioning the status of the National Judicial Council for the reasons indicated, so we do not see a threat to the nomination process, i.e. the appointment of candidates for judges to the President. In addition, there is no correlation between the National Council and the Sejm, which elects judges to the National Council. I mean, there is no operational sense, because after choosing we do not receive any instructions or commands, nor do we feel that, so to speak, ties, no such expectations expressed by the Sejm, do not express Members or Senators. Everyone, including those on the council, acts according to his own conscience, makes decisions on his own. So we don't see the threat to the nomination procedure. The statement of the Constitutional Tribunal, which removed doubts about the possible incompatibility of legal solutions in this respect with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, is of vital importance to us. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u11	Thank you very much, Mr President. Another round of questions. Your first question is Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. Then Senator Fedorovich... Is it? There isn't. [[Maybe he'll come.]] This is Senator Rybicki. But now Mrs. Barbara Zdrojewska. Please. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u12	Thank you very much. I'm here about the 2018 property statements. First thing. Where's the matter at this moment with your statement of unlawful property statement? Is this in the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court, whether it's in the D.A.'s office or in the CBA? Please inform us about this. Second thing. I'd like to ask you, sir. also in 2018, for the additional earnings of Judge Mitera, the Ombudsman, who received additional revenue for PLN 180 000. I'd like you to tell me if you've consented to such an additional activity by Judge Mitera. How is it possible that so many classes that you have Judge Mither do not interfere with his work in court? [[The president of the court is.]] Please? [[He's the president of the court.]] He's the president of the court, so he's a crazy busy person, and he's got a lot of classes to do. Did you agree to this? Did you ever think about that? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u13	Thank you very much. Senator Sławomir Rybicki. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr President, in your information, in the section on the activities of the Council in the international arena, you mentioned that the National Judicial Council was suspended from the activities of the European Judicial Council Network. The result of this vote was devastating because 100 votes were in favour of suspension and only 6 against. Perhaps you would like to tell us how the reason for this suspension has been defined and how it has consequences for the activities of the National Judicial Council.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u15	Thank you very much. Senator Grażyna Shark.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u16	Thank you very much, Marshal. I would like to explain, Mr President, that if we are talking about these insinuations concerning judges... That's why I was talking about the TSUE meeting. I talked about this because they participated in it, that during this meeting the Council also represented Judge Pawełczyk-Woicka and Judge Jarosław Dudzicz. Well, you've been in this meeting, and you've allowed this kind of innuendo, you've been talking about robbers in robberies. Don't you think that all of this, such insinuation and insulting, is bad for you, your role? I was also a member of the KRS and I believe that the role of the KRS is also to defend the good name of the judges. Well, I wouldn't want to be judged. And I don't think many of our citizens do either. By the thieves that were mentioned. [[Senator, the question is, it's been a minute.]] Why didn't you react then, stop this discussion? Because I know for the drills, for the sausage... Well, it's been a long time since we've been responsible for these cases. And some of these people were very sick, which you know perfectly well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u17	Good. Thank you very much. I give the floor to the President. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u18	I would just ask you to clarify this first question, Senator Zdrojewska, because I do not know what kind of property statement it is, which would be in the CBA or any other institution. [[I'm talking about the case of not including...]] Oh, so this is about my property statement? [[Yes, about your statement, yes.]] Well, maybe I'll start with that question. The question of not including in this statement the income obtained for work in the National Council of the Court of Justice is based on the interpretation of the instruction in this section. It has the following sound... Well, there's the indication... Section 6 of the form shall include income subject to corporation tax on natural persons, obtained during the year before the date on which the declaration is made, provided that their total value exceeds 10 000, their origins and now the most significant part This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from commitments remaining to be settled from previous years in accordance with Article 21 (3) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October Well, the income generated by the National Council of Courts is, in my opinion, revenue obtained in connection with the exercise of office as a judge, because if I had not done so, I would not have been able to obtain this income at all. Besides the fact that I am a member of the council is well known, and the level of diet is clearly regulated in the law, so the lack of such information is not an attempt to conceal anything, but it is simply a result of such reading of this instruction. Besides, I wasn't the only one, three people interpreted the recipe that way. This interpretation is, moreover, in line with the position of the Ministry of Justice. However, in order for there to be no doubt, today I passed on an appropriate communication to the Polish Press Agency. And that is the content of this communication. I brought here a photocopy of the information, which is so-called. PIT on these salaries or salaries received in the National Council. I would like to inform you, according to this information, that in 2018 in connection with the execution of the mandate of a member of the KRS, I obtained revenue of PLN 81 000 985, of which an advance on income tax of PLN 14 000 756 was collected. I do not see any grounds for correcting my statement of property, but in the absence of doubt, I give this information on the basis of a source document which would form the basis for a possible entry in the sixth part of the form of the statement of property. As far as the revenue generated by your judge Mitera is concerned, I am not in control of his income from additional employment, e.g. as a lecturer or somebody else, because I'm not his superior outside the National Court Register. Therefore, I can control, have an influence on the income which he gains in the National Council of the Court of Justice as a press spokesperson, but, as I understand it, they are not the subject of doubt here. With regard to those revenues which he obtains on the basis of additional employment, for which this employment is agreed by the supervisor, i.e. the President of the relevant court or the court of the superior, it is... [[But he gives his own consent?]] Senator, of course not. I'm talking about the head of the courthouse. Well, you usually have a supervisor. If Judge Mitera is the President of the District Court for the Downtown, his superior will be the President of the District Court. I think there should be a request for information to resolve these doubts. As for this speech at the Court of Justice of the European Union... the meeting is chaired by the President of the Court of Justice of the European Union. There is no way that persons attending this meeting in one or another capacity, e.g. as an audience, they had the opportunity to interfere with this meeting and speak, questioning or approving individual statements. I do not recall that the speeches made by Judge Pawełczyk-Woicka and Judge Dudzicz at any point raise doubts or disapproval of President Lenaerts. And there was no doubt about the other people who took part in this meeting, so that I had no grounds. ..and the possibilities.. To correct these statements. They were completely in that mandate, which was granted to these representatives before the Court of Justice, which were in that mandate and did not disturb the process of the trial, did not violate anyone's rights, did not violate anyone's personal possessions. Therefore, I repeat, there was no need Or the possibility of such discipline. It was essential here to keep the chairman of the composition as well as this broad composition, because the proceedings took place before the so-called. A big room. When it comes to the ENCJ suspension... Well, several meetings took place, especially important was this meeting in Warsaw, with representatives of the ENCJ Executive Committee, where we tried to lay out our rations. Unfortunately, they were not recognised in the eyes of the representatives of the Executive Committee. But as an exemplification of the ENCJ approach or the Executive Committee, I would like to state that, as part of the procedure for preparing these meetings, we have received, among others. such a letter, which as a rule specified the agenda of this meeting and which lists the issues to be discussed. There was a list consisting of 2 items, presenting countries in which questions are raised, in short, about the functioning of the judiciary and the rule of law. On this list, in the second position was Poland, and in the first place was Turkey. This combination of things that were totally unsettling pointed to an attempt to humiliate us, because the situation in Turkey was a situation after a coup or an incident resembling a coup, when several tens of thousands of people were in prison, including several thousand judges, prosecutors, who had a large part of them fired from work, part of them were arrested. Those criminal proceedings that took place there several hundred... In fact, there was a situation where one of the judges or prosecutors died in custody, which raised serious questions and doubts about how human rights in Turkey were respected. Thus, it is difficult to discuss the system solutions in substance, and the substantive reasons are presented. In a situation where the organisation preparing such a meeting tries to suggest that these problems are on the same level. I think the reasons why we've been suspended from NCJ is that we're not excluded. These are more or less the reasons presented in the Opinion of the Advocate General before the Court of Justice of the European Union.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u19	Thank you very much, Mr President. Senator Fedorovich. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u20	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr President, Judge, I would ask you to... well, I'm not a lawyer, and it's more like people who have a similar idea of the law, maybe even a little bit smaller than mine. Tell me, is this a violation of the law by the Marshal of the Sejm that these letters are not revealed or not? Shortly: yes or no, because there's nothing to divorce. Second question. I know that the National Judicial Council protects the independence, independence of judges. Yeah, but what's it like if... are you defending an injured judge? There's Judge Mazur, nota bene from Krakow, who... [[The crane.]] [[The crane.]] Yeah, but first I'm talking about Judge Mazur. ...who was the head of the international branch. Excellent judge, experienced, long-term, professional, recognizable throughout Europe. And suddenly he loses his job, and there comes a judge who has basically no experience in this case, like Judge Wypych. Why? Are you defending one of the best judges who is fighting for this independence, your colleague from Krakow, Mr. Judge Żurek? Do you stand up for yourselves? Are you the body that represents the organ? One more question by the way. [[It's been a while, Mr. Senator, because the minute has passed.]] I'll be able to do it later, right? [[Yes.]] Okay, that's two questions for now.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u21	Okay, thank you. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska... Senator, do you want to ask a question? [[Yes, I do.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u22	Thank you very much, Marshal. I would like you to refer to the scandalous statements of Judge Jarosław Dudzicz, who is a member of the neo-KRS, who says that the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union are worth as much as the statement that the Earth is flat and the banana is simple. I would like to remind you that the judge, in accordance with the principles of ethics, cannot even create any appearances of non-respect of the legal order. And what else is such a statement and a misrepresentation of the values of TSUE rulings? Tell me, too, if... Moreover, in my opinion, Judge Dudzicz, in such a way as to undermine and offend the Court of Justice of the European Union, has been excluded from the European judges because every Polish judge is a European judge at the same time. I'd like to know if you've filed a motion on this case, whether Judge Dudzicz will be punished for it somehow. I'd also like to know why you're letting Judge Dudzicz put his opinions on Twitter that don't fit the judge. Here I would like to point out that he is also a deputy spokesperson for the neo-KRS. I would therefore like you to refer to these practices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u23	Thank you very much. Senator Grażyna Shark.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u24	Thank you very much. I would like to add to the topic of this famous Judge Dudzicz that during our committee meetings or earlier, after the decision to exclude the National Court Councils from the European Judicial Council Network... his texts should at least be questioned by you. And I think he should be banned from speaking. Because it's... [[That's your opinion, Senator. Ask me a question.]] Yeah, that's my opinion. Excuse me, Miss Marshal. [[There will be time for an opinion in the discussion. Ask me a question.]] Sure. I'm sorry. I would like to ask... the European Court of Human Rights, on the basis of a single judgment handed down on the citizen of Iceland by a judge who has been called in violation of the rules, has given a judgment that this violates the Convention on Human Rights. According to experts, this decision is crucial for Poland in the context of the recognition by the TSUE that the new KRS was chosen in violation of the law. Are you prepared that, after such a decision, all decisions to appoint judges, all decisions relating to disciplinary proceedings and others may be challenged? What then will happen to the judgments handed down by those judges who have decided to run for office, to your opinion on their candidacy? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u26	Thank you. High Izbo! Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! In replying, I stress that I am providing answers as President of the National Court of Justice, not neo-KRS. As for the comments made by Judge Dudzicz on Twitter, I had already had an opportunity, in response to the journalists' request, to comment on this statement by Judge Dudzicz on a flat Earth... [[Carrot.]] ...a crooked banana or a simple banana, etc. And I've pointed out that I consider this to be an exaggeration. But note the context and context of the statement. It was a statement formulated on Twitter or even online media, which are characterized by a specific narrative, very shortcut, with a certain sketch of form... These discussions there sometimes differ from, let's say, the reality of the conversation in the world, let's call it real. It seems to me that the principle of freedom of speech and freedom of expression entails functioning within different media. And given the context, where that statement came from and in what discussion, I did not see in it any more than a certain exaggeration. Nothing more inappropriate, so I saw no reason to discipline the Ombudsman in any way, except to point out that, however, in these discussions, he might speak in a slightly more toned way. It seems to me that this use of excessive form was intended to make the public aware, to communicate to the public or to the debaters within this forum that the Court of Justice of the European Union exceeds its competence if it usurps its ability to rule in an area which clearly does not provide for such powers. And we are actually dealing with this phenomenon, it is being observed and causing serious concern. Because it's not even a matter of discussion, it's the real consequences of some kind of ownership of areas under the control of sovereign states. As for the matter of the Marshal breaking the law in connection with the secrecy of these letters... the rules, as we know, are a huge amount. There are rules of a very different rank. The question of a possible violation of the law in the justification of its ruling will be put forward by the formation of the Supreme Administrative Court, and I will stop by the fact that there is a operative part of that ruling expressing a certain obligation and I assume that if there are no other barriers to the administration, for example. any other legal basis 'Cause the ruling has its limits. This judgment will be enforced. It is not my role to review, and it is without access to materials, opinions, justifications, because I understand that the marshal, when making such a decision, was guided by opinions from a wide range of experts. I don't do this ad hoc commentary. As for Judge Zurk or Judge Mazur... Nomen omen Mr. Judge Mazur, performing in public, among others. abroad, he apologized to the auditorium for having the same name as mine. He's not, I think, the victim of some kind of persecution. A possible shift to another office is a common practice in the work and functioning of courts. All the procedures we're dealing with, e.g. Opinions of judges to take up positions in higher instances, that is, among others. the demonstration of these personnel movements, of which there are very many in the courts. If this were to involve some kind of harassment, then there are very different legal measures that can be used to identify, identify, and enforce any liability in this area. It is possible to lodge various types of complaints, there is an institution of appeal against the so-called. the scope of the activities which precisely define the responsibilities of the judge concerned. The judges use these instruments, and in an increasingly common way, at each meeting we recognize dozens of such appeals from the scope of the activities. It is difficult for me to judge the possible harms of Judge Zurek or Judge Mazur, if they do not give a run... do not implement certain procedures, but go to the media, and some media accept this argument with approval, others with disapproval, but it is impossible to judge which party in such a dispute is right. So I encourage both judges to use institutions that exist. There is, for example. ombudsman who holds at least a neutral position Let me put it this way. So that any complaints, if justified, will be assessed by both designated judges or by other judges and will appear with different kinds of legal means. Now the question of the consequences of a possible decision of the TSUE and the question of the nomination procedures. It seems to me that this is an attempt to create an impression of potential legal chaos. We don't share that opinion. First of all, because we do not see any threat to the nomination processes at all. It is important here that the President's prerogative, who nominates and makes the final decision, is essential. This is a prerogative which is in a way that corrects any shortcomings that would arise in earlier stages. It is simply after the President's decision that such a nomination is irresistible, irreversible. I would like to recall the matter of the institution of assesors, which the judicial institution has been challenged in the past by the Constitutional Tribunal. And there was a problem with the assessment of the achievements of the assesors, those hundreds of thousands or maybe even millions of decisions they passed. The reasoning must have been the same here. Since he's been challenged and constitutionally Their status, it must be consistently assumed that also their judgments are issued whether they are defective in any way. However, this dilemma is always to be resolved in such a way that the judgment is prospective and not retrospective. I also recall the justification for the ruling of the Constitutional Court, which pointed out that there are different principles which are given priority. In the case of assessors, the value of legal certainty and trading certainty shall be the overriding value over any doubt as to the systemic status of the assessors. In short, the Court said that there is no way to contest the decisions given by the assessors after challenging their constitutional status and that all decisions given by them remain in force. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u27	You're asking Senator Rybicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u28	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. In response to my previous question about the reasons why the European Network of Judicial Councils suspended the National Judicial Council in the rights of a member, you answered roughly in such a way that it was the argument that the EU Court of Justice spokesperson used. You didn't answer directly what the reason was. Is this the reason, according to the European Judicial Council Network, that the National Courts do not comply with the requirements of independence from executive and legislative authority?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u29	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u30	I think I can repeat my statement because these charges are consistent. That is to say, both the ENCJ and the Ombudsman of the European Court of Justice at this stage question the independence of the National Judicial Council due to the method of its appointment, namely the procedure for the appointment of 15 judges to the National Council by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, a legislative body. In the view of the parties mentioned, the Council should be completely independent of the legislative and executive authority. I spoke on this subject in the introductory part, I said that this is an assumption that is impossible, given that the National Council, in accordance with the Act, has practically been composed of representatives of both the legislative and executive authorities since the beginning of its operation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u31	Thank you. Senator Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u32	I have a few questions. Briefly. Do you see the need to decommunise judges? What's the scale? That's what the President said. What's the scale of the phenomenon you were talking about, Senator Libicki, holding back the judges about the promotion? Now it's a matter of exposing your support. Don't you think that the judge, to be credible, maybe alone, if there's no statutory ban, and there isn't, reveal those letters of support and don't wait for anyone? And one last question. As far as these claims are concerned, you say that there is a position of the Ministry of Justice in relation to the performance of the duties of judge and other functions, and yet there is a general delegation of judges to the Ministry of Justice, who receive double remuneration and present this in their statements of property. Why this discrepancy of interpretation? That's four questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u33	Maybe I'll start with the last line. The fact that such information is presented must be distinguished from whether there is an obligation to present it. Despite the absence of such an obligation, 12 judges from the National Council provided such information and 3 judges interpreted that provision in such a way that there was no such obligation. If these 12 people don't get into their motivation It correctly interpreted this provision and considered that there was no such obligation... well, no one's gonna stop them from revealing it. Just like I gave that information today. So there's no difference here, in my opinion. I do not really understand what in this context would refer to the posting of judges to the Ministry of Justice. [[In connection with the performance of the magistrate function...]] Well, their status, their situation, as far as this obligation is concerned, is identical to the situation of the judges in the National Council. [[Exactly.]] In my opinion, when it comes to the remuneration obtained in connection with the status of a judge, they also have no obligation to disclose these revenues, in accordance with this instruction, but if they do, it only helps to better inform the public. The question of uncommunization... Well, to me, that's the subject. about such a strict coloring... maybe not strictly political, but with a large political component. It was a subject that appeared, came back and somehow vanished. We, the National Council, did not deal with this issue. A lot of different... [[Then who said anything about...]] [[But don't disturb me...]] Many different issues, including the analysis of the issue of decommunisation, are not very much known as the one covered, were not in this area, which was implemented by the Council in 2018. If, for example. There's a project coming in... right? The opinion received 130 drafts of various types of legislation. Well, I don't recall any of them referring to the issue. If it does, we'll take the stand, i.e. We'll give him an opinion, give him an opinion on the subject. Of course, the Council can also take a stand in the form of resolutions on various matters relating to the functioning of the judiciary, but this subject, which, as I say, over the last years, appears, returns and sails, did not appear in 2018 and nothing came out that would require a position to be taken in the Council's opinion. Besides, it seems that it would only bring additional charges to the council, such that it mixes its legal activity with some political activity. [[I was asking about the phenomenon...]] Mr. Senator, well... [[There's... there's... ……]] I don't think this question has anything to do with what I'm telling you. I do not expect questions about a whole range of different issues that may arise, because in a moment there may be a question about abortion, about euthanasia. There are various types of topics that are somewhat on-call in terms of raising temperatures and provoking discussions about a fiery character or an elevated level of emotion. And that's what I'd rather avoid.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u34	Thank you very much. Senators, I agree with Mr President's position that we should ask questions about the subject of this report. Of course, I'm not going to ask questions, but I'm asking for some intellectual discipline. Of course, Mr President always has the right not to answer questions that are not related to this subject. [[President of the Leszek Mazur National Judicial Council: I try not to use this and even forget the possibility that I may not answer. When I stand in front of the High House, I try to answer every question.]] [[But did my question concern...]] Mr. Senator... [[After all, the failure to act is also an act.]] Well, yes, but Mr President's answer is exactly what he thinks is appropriate, and I don't think repeating these questions is going to lead us anywhere further. Senator Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u35	Judge, Mr. Chairman, I've been haunted all the time... We all want every judge's position, like yours, to be an independent and independent person. Therefore, I would like to ask: what happens if these letters of support e.g. Are they gonna stop by some shredders and disappear? Is there any further procedure? Such a hypothesis appeared in the media. And the other thing. Would you be kind enough to judge from the point of view of a person... a judge is someone really important and serious in society's life. How is it that out of 10,000 judges only 18 have applied to this new National Council? What does that mean? I don't mean... You can tell me this from the legal side, but... it's not normal in a democratic country. And now, to be specific, I'm going to say this: what if you do. Will it show that these letters of support have been signed by the same people and those associated with the Ministry of Justice? Are those judges who have entered the KRS and are now under your guidance... Is that legal? If someone backs me as director of the theater, can they support 30 others? Same people... How does it really look? It's in public all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u36	This is a subject that aroused a lot of emotions last year. I've already answered that question by making an argument. I think that after a year we're close to solving a riddle that maybe isn't that serious, but it's about a society of different interests, different objects of interest. But let's say there's a lot of society that's interested in this. I think we still need a little patience here, and in a short time this case will be settled, because we already have the ruling of the Supreme Administrative Court. As for the hypothesis, the assumption that these letters might disappear... Well, there's a proverb that says the archives don't burn, there's always copies. I can't imagine, given the importance of the institutions of the Sejm and the Marshal of the Sejm, so that this could happen. If, hypothetically, something like this were to happen, it would, of course, be a very serious violation of the law, probably a crime. And here are the appropriate procedures to enforce responsibility for this, but it seems to me to be a completely improbable scenario. As for this number of 18 judges who applied to the National Council in relation to the total number of judges in excess of 10,000, I know that these fractions in the previous Senate meeting, when I was just presenting the information, were the subject of such a very thorough query by Senator Klich He presented this to the nearest few decimal places. This, of course, is an important issue, because on the one hand it may mean testing these solutions, but on the other hand, The degree of such a hermeticization of the environment. I will remind you of this information, which did not appear to have penetrated then, that the previous National Council configurations actually represented only senior judges. For almost 30 years... And for 30 years, there have been a lot of teams, several hundred judges have gone there. During all these years, district judges had only 3 representatives, and regional judges are proportionally the largest For 10,000 judges, there are about 7 000 regional judges. And the 7,000. Well, over the years, of course, it's a much larger number. Over the years, he had only three representatives in the Council, which means that there were entire term of office of the Council in which the regional judges were completely deprived of this representation. I think the answer to the senator's question will bring another election to the National Council. I am convinced that such signals come from different backgrounds, also from judges, and maybe mainly from judges. The number of candidates who apply for this further recruitment, if, of course, the legal status is maintained in this respect, will no longer be 18 or 20 or 25, but will be several times higher. I think the answer will simply give time, the development of events in a few years, when the term of the current council will expire.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u37	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u38	Judge, following your statement concerning Judge Zurk and Judge Mazur of Krakow, I would like to ask... Because several reports on repression of judges in Poland have been published This was the reports of the Justice Defence Committee, the Osiatian Archives and the latest, latest report by Iustitia. I would like to ask if you foresee that this will be the subject of a meeting of the National Judicial Council. Are you going to take care of this, or are you going to send these people and these judges, in such a large number, to the ombudsman? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u39	I'll answer that. High Izbo! Senator! At least I read some of these reports. Well, they're kind of one-sided, and they're some kind of polemic in a discussion that you're trying to deal with, instead of passing on and proceding it in such a way that you can get a final clear resolution. This is No, I don't want to use such a depreciative phrase, some kind of report production... Such studies are being developed, which are to function as an argument in the discussion, but are not suitable for them to run as if they were not expected to make a clear decision. I will give an example from last year, when we were dealing with such a heated situation in Kraków courts and there was a question... We took action to clarify this situation, invited representatives of this Kraków environment to a meeting at the National Council, but we were, in short, ignored. Pretexts, because these translations should be assessed as pretexts, were that the fax was sent too late, that not this form, that too late, etc. In short, such a meeting did not take place. And no one's running for anything like that... The Krakow judges, instead of coming to the KRS and explaining the matter, were intensively presenting the whole issue in various media. In short, they preferred to go to television studios and introduce themselves as victims or people ignored by the National Court of Justice, who are not being listened to and are not going to explain their reasons. Moreover, we later returned for written documentation, but neither was it presented. I think the explanatory statement said that we weren't reliable. At that time there was a fashion to test and interpret various types of activities, e.g. of a purely procedural, technical nature, as a demonstration of the protest of the council. I was talking here about the withdrawal of applications by candidates in the order of 210. This has been assessed as a demonstration of the Council's procedures. Even President Zawistowski gave an interview in which he said that there was no such thing when he was chairman of the council. We have simplified this by presenting in the media figures with concrete data showing that the situation was different also when he was chairman of the Council. Moreover, when he presided over meetings, resolutions dying proceedings due to the withdrawal of applications were issued, in the number of 20, 30, 15... In any case, they were not individual cases, i.e. those which could be forgotten so completely.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u40	Thank you very much. The question you're asking is the senator... [[You could have filed at the same time, Judge, then...]] You're asking Senator Grażyna Sztark a question. [[Have the rules changed?]] [[There's been a write-off...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, two things. As a former member of the National Judicial Council, I would like to tell you that we have really cared very much about this concern. For the authority of the office. If we're talking about acting as a deputy press officer here, Mr. Dudzicz... If you answer that this falls within the scope of freedom of speech, I wonder if you really care about this authority. I will add one more thing to this, as Mrs Pavłowicz referred to: serving such a general is a pleasure and an honor, I report on command, etc., etc. That's all on Twitter. And the other thing. I, as a member of the National Judicial Council, knew that I had to include in my estate statement the amount of my diet. I didn't have a problem with that. Let's get to the question. Judge, some courts... I wouldn't want the impression to arise here, that these misunderstandings only concern the Krakow court. Some courts do not want to give an opinion on the candidates for the judges' promotions at all, but until the EU Court of Justice speaks on the legality of the Council's choice by the politicians. And, as you recall, in the District Court in Łódź, after the decision of the President of the Court in the vote, the effect was that each of those willing to promote was supported by one person and the other 40 judges left the courtroom. Tell me if those people who had the kind of support that got this one vote and stayed, some of them at least... I don't know the outcome of your vote. But do you think that such a judge will feel that he has the support or that he will feel that he has the support of his environment? Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u42	Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u43	I'll answer that. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator! Regarding the statement made by Judge Dudzicz I've already mentioned it, that question is such a polemic voice. It's hard to explain more than that. May I add that this statement, which is supposed to depreciate the TSUE, formulated by the Ombudsman on Twitter, did not cause any reaction, was not received in such a way. After all, the TSUE, built in various types of secretariats and administrative staff, did not report this to us, it does not seem that this statement is being treated... In short, there is no indication that anyone should feel affected by this statement. Nor do I think that the officials employed there are involved in some very intense search of the Internet, e.g. Twitter accounts, for some kind of statement. Well, different voices are in the discussion. Sometimes these statements are at least exaggerated, but this is the formula for conducting discussions. And I think we have to deal with that somehow. I was merely paying attention to Judge Dudzicz's speech in a more tone way. Regarding this statement to Mrs Pavłowicz Well, it was nothing but a joke. Neither Mrs Pavłowicz is a general nor is Judge Dudzicz of any military degree, so it is difficult to treat it differently. And certainly not as an expression of a subordinate or a desire to submit to the Member. I don't see it at all. However, in a body that is relatively narrow and regularly meeting 50 days of meetings per year It is natural to bring these relationships closer, to establish social contacts. This kind of exchange of texts or speeches doesn't bother me. I do not believe that there is any threat to the independence of Judge Dudzicz from Mrs Pavłowicz. I'll tell you a little bit more... Because the senator pointed out that as a man of the National Council, she filled out this statement of property in such a way that she entered the data on salaries received in the National Council and that there was no problem with it. I also declare that I have no problem with this. I didn't see the need, given the content of this declaration, to make this data public, but I brought it and on the first occasion, when it aroused interest, I gave it. However, I would add that the procedure for making these statements... Not only is the content published, but it is checked earlier by the college of the competent court. And the college didn't call me, it didn't indicate any doubts, it didn't call for additional data or additional data. Besides, if someone gets more acquainted with my wealth statement, it's easy to see that I don't get any income from any economic, scientific, pedagogical, training activities, etc. Salary in court plus salary for work in the National Council are the only salaries I receive. Not to mention... there are no financial instruments, no stocks, no securities. I think my wealth and income situation is a very transparent situation. As for the court in Łódź... It is not an obligation for us to withdraw from the opinion of the judges in our opinion, but it is the law of these authorities. If they do not wish to exercise this right, this must not hinder the nomination procedure. Forty people came to the jury meeting in Łódź. This is a large number, but it seems to me that this is only a small proportion of those entitled to attend the assemblies. In 2018 they mainly dealt with the adoption of resolutions commenting on current developments, some statements of judges, issues of conflict. The second basic portion of resolutions that go to the National Council are resolutions that enter into some polemics and discussions, or they inform that the assemblies will not consult the candidates. It seems to me that it is also for this reason that attendance at these assemblies is becoming less and less representative, making these assemblies less and less representative. Well, if the content of the resolutions that are being taken is that we will not do anything, we will not opinion or have any position in the dispute, then this leads to a deepening of the environmental conflict. I think that judges are less and less likely to attend such conventions at all. So that the account here shows that one person was, and I believe, the head of this meeting, the President of the Court, and 40 people came out, does not give the whole picture of the situation, because it seems to me that the majority of the judges entitled to attend this meeting did not participate in it at all.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u44	The question you ask is Senator Panczyk-Podziej. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, I am working on a subject that seems very important to us. I don't suspect that the list of those judges who were beating other judges would be in the shredder or burned. However, the fact that the names of these people were not disclosed has been explained by your fear of ostracism. To my knowledge, ostracism is some kind of exclusion or harassment for boldly defining your opinion. So, what kind of chicanes could those whose names were not revealed meet? Well, if they're legal persons who aren't subject to any pressure, they're not likely to be threatened by ostracism or fear of political pressure. Therefore, give more convincing reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u46	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u47	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator! There are various forms of expressing ostracism, such as professional socialism. by avoiding people, demonstrating resentment towards people. We know of cases where judges who are in good social relations suddenly stop talking to each other, stop seeing each other, stop answering their greetings, don't shake hands or show their dislike in any other way. Or at the convention they say to a friend: I will not sit next to you because the person has adopted an administrative position or administrative function at the hands of the Minister of Ziobra, or maybe has applied for an access to the National Court Register or even participated in the nomination procedure despite the incentives and calls not to do so. I think that forms of collective life, which develop certain rules of procedure, at the same time create certain expectations. There are also ways to demonstrate by giving up certain forms of courtesy, by some kind of harassment, by mobbing a person... It is possible to exert some kind of pressure, to exert pressure. I think it doesn't require a broader explanation, because each of us is able to imagine what it looks like. It's not a coincidence that there's some kind of committee. anti-mobbing or anti-mobbing procedures. And even if it doesn't reach this level, it's possible to affect a person differently, e.g. Disliked by her attitude or her political views. If you follow the statements on the Internet, you can see what is the level of conflict or even aggression there, which is an exemplification of this phenomenon. We in the National Council had e.g. a number of proceedings where applications for the exclusion of judges or at least parts of judges were made in mass, members of the National Council because they were previously members of the Jury Association.Iustitia. Current members of this association taking part in the nomination procedures submitted conclusions on the grounds that prior membership of this association is a reason for lack of objectivity. Well, there's a split and a split. Right? Some stayed, some resigned. Here, the process was to submit applications, but in social conversations we have an insight into the situation in some environments. That's what I'm going to say, ostentatious situations like. in Łódź, such ostentatious refusal of opinions of candidates are simply manifestations of conflict that exists. That's the answer to the senator's question. [[Senator Maria Panczyk-Podziej: Mr. Marshal, can I ask you another question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u48	Yes. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u49	Mr President, you really haven't convinced me because we all experience this kind of ostracism every day. We parliamentarians are treated the same way. Don't you think a real judge should be more resilient? The real judge is immune to this kind of ostracism. You're explaining it to me by some sort of social exclusion. Well, I guess that's too small an argument.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u50	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u51	Senator, that's the decision the Marshal of the Sejm made. Now I find it difficult to understand what additional motivations accompanied him. I assume this decision was made on the basis of expert assessments. We are dealing with a history here, because such a decision has already been made. She may look different after 12 months. The ruling of the Supreme Administrative Court is currently valid. It seems to me that it is unnecessary to seek the motivation that accompanied the decision to keep the letter secret. Like I said, I think the next few weeks will bring a solution to this situation. I assure you that on my letter of support there is not one person connected with the Ministry of Justice, because this, apparently, raises the biggest doubts. I also disclosed one of the persons on my list, because it was also an interest in the context of my brother's alleged acquisition of votes, the President of the Court of Appeal in Katowice, but there is only one person on this list of judges of the Court of Appeal in Katowice, namely my brother.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u52	The question is asked by Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u53	Judge, since you're so sensitive to ostracism towards new judges, newly appointed judges or mobbing against newly appointed judges, in general judges, I'm going back to those reports I was talking about. There are, among others. the report of the "Iustitii'. I'm surprised you've been deceiving the value of these reports. Then let me ask you a question. Perhaps the National Judicial Council should order such an independent report on the repression of judges, since so many reports have been produced in NGOs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u54	Senator, I'm not deceiving these reports, I'm pointing out that the people listed in these reports don't use... they stop at providing the data for the report, but they don't give way to their complaints. Well, on the one hand, they have doubts about whether or not they're complaining that they're being harassed, and on the other hand, they're not taking action to defend their rights, claiming that the institutions that serve them are unbelievable or ineffective, etc. As an example, I presented this situation when we invited the judges from Krakow to a conversation to explain. And yes, they were in the TV shows, in front of the cameras, but not in the KRS. Well, our capabilities if these procedures are not implemented, e.g. a complaint, it's not filed in the form of a complaint or some petition that we can put somewhere and make sure that the relevant institutions explain it... Then all we have to do is take a stand in the form of a resolution. By force, it must be more general, because it is impossible to take a position in the form of a resolution in some individual case. It is not out of the question, but it will be completely ineffective. Well, such actions should be avoided rather than taken only in order to seemingly meet the expectations of the complainants. Like I'm saying, I don't feel like these people are going to explain their situation, it's just about creating themselves as victims of some kind of repression or pseudorepression. The second question was... Oh, as far as mobbing or ostracism is concerned, I meant in the case of secreting these letters, the names of the judges giving support... The assumption that such an ostracism or mobbing might be exposed was based on the level of tension in the discussions and arguments that were then passed. There was also a billboard campaign, which I was also a hero or object, I don't know what to call it. In any case, many billboards were posted in Częstochowa, which publicly called me to resign. Similar actions or happenings were carried out against others. Thus, the assumption that this could also be the participation of the judges who supported it was not unfounded. Moreover, it seems reasonable to take such measures, which reduce the level of social tension and conflict, and the decision to keep these letters secret in my mind was motivated by such motivation. After a year, this motivation may be less relevant, which creates a new context for the assessment of the position taken by the Supreme Administrative Court in relation to the publication of these letters.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u55	Are there any more questions for the Chairman of the National Judicial Council? No one's checking in. Thank you, Mr President. [[President of Leszek Mazur National Judicial Council: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. You're the first Senator Zientarski to speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u56	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The fact that Judge Mazur says we shouldn't call it the National Judicial Council... Yeah, but unfortunately, that's how it's generally taken place. The judges of the doubles don't want them to be called judges of the understudy either. But their will here doesn't mean anything. I will start with a certain truism, but also a fundamental issue, which is the foundation of the work of the judge, the court and the judge. This is the Constitution. The Republic of Poland, on which every judge swears. The Constitution of the Republic of Poland expressly provides And the constitutionalists agree on it in their mass. That... because you here, Judge, wanted to prove that the National Judicial Council would never be completely independent. No, she's about to be partially... In accordance with the constitutional legislature's will, the constitutions are to be so that some of them are... But the influential part. That's what the Constitution is all about. So please do not say that, since there are elected Members, 4 Members, 2 Senators, since there is a Minister of Justice, since there is the first President of the Supreme Court, there is the President of the Supreme Administrative Court... these are the bodies that are elected. I'm talking about parliamentarians right now. And the constitution points that way. But the rest, the majority, 15 members. And let me remind you that the Council is composed of 25 members, to guarantee this independence. And here's the essence of things. And breaking that rule by such a calling simply destroys the essence and purpose of this constitutional body. That's the problem. And don't tell me you guys wash your hands, there was a question here. That the President is actually sanctioning your proposals because he is calling... No, Judge. The Constitution is clear: it appoints the President, but at the request of the President. You have to look at the whole thing anyway. If the motion comes from an unauthorized authority, then of course the President does not have the prerogative to sanction it. Because if it weren't on request, it'd be if the president called himself. You're welcome. But it's not. The application must be submitted by a constitutional body set up in accordance with the Constitution. And that's where I'm not gonna say... Because I'm a constitutionalist myself, I know the environment. And it's not like judges are political. Because judges aren't political and they're not supposed to be political. Once upon a time, I remember, there was this situation... There was this partyless block of cooperation with the government, remember, Lech Wałęsa was creating it. And then, I remember, judges This, of course, was not for the current constitution, and they applied as candidates for the Sejm. But those days are over. The judge absolutely cannot act politically. The judge is to be faithful to the constitution. And that's the obvious thing. And that's why, Judge, judges who know what an oath means simply didn't apply to the National Judicial Council. And only those 18 out of more than 10,000... What does that say? Then you can answer yourself. [[So who's political? So who's political?]] Excuse me. [[Mr. Senator, let's not bother each other.]] And yet it has been an honor to participate in the National Judicial Council so far. And to say, Judge, that actually... I was also a member of the National Judicial Council, two terms. And former members, former judges of the district court... But, excuse me, the judge of the district court or the judge of the appeal court was a judge of the district court and he also has the experience of a judge of the district court. And what does that mean? That they, having more experience being experienced judges of the district court, don't represent... what kind of argument is that? So that organ, well, unfortunately I don't want to use strong words. It doesn't answer. It's just a caricature of the National Council of Judicial Affairs within the meaning of the Constitution. That's why it's suspended. And one more thing. You gave me so many threads here in your answers that a few hours wouldn't be enough. Well, you said something about a hair on my bald head. [[Voice from the room: Impossible!]] Because the fact that you, Judge, answer one question, say there are other orders... Another order is European order, another order is national order. What do you mean? After all, we are in the same European system! What are you saying? We are judges of European courts. [[Voice from the room: European...]] European. What kind of two cleanups? That's the narrative you're trying to describe. And what, do you absolve the Court that is incarcerated? Look, you've already got a lot of... [[That's where there's only one man...]] Next line, Judge. A very important role you didn't tell me about at all. That's the second one. Follow-up to applications A very important area of activity of the National Judicial Council, the opinion of legal acts concerning the judiciary. Judge, well, you've been reviewing these Supreme Court regulations, which have been totally compromised, which you've just come from here... [[It's been withdrawn.]] ...withdrawed. What do you guys look like in this situation? This is a complete embarrassment, already legal. That wasn't even mentioned at all. And the next thread, he was already raised here in questions. Judge, I defended once in disciplinary proceedings before the court of appeal of a judge who was reprimanded for having doubts... One of the cops had doubts about his sobriety, but he wasn't given a breathalyzer. The next squad car arrived, no breathalyzers, etc. And he had a charge. You know what for? For not leading himself to the fact... that on his own initiative he didn't give up... he didn't go to explain himself. That's what he's accused of, 'cause... [[Time's up.]] It's me in the next five minutes... 'Cause there was this charge: 'cause the judge... [[Time's up.]] I'm just gonna finish that thought. 'Cause the judge. This is what the Court of Appeal said in Warsaw. He should be doing everything... if there's a charge, even the least of them in society, he should be trying to explain himself. And no one told you not to show the list. Everyone first should show it to be credible, not some kind of artificial ostracism, strange, funny, just social cloak. Thank you now. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u57	Senator Zdrojewska has a voice. [[Excellent lawyer.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u58	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is difficult to speak after such an excellent speech by my colleague, Senator Ziientarski, who not only has experience as a lawyer, but also has experience in sitting in the KRS, as is my colleague who will take the floor after me. I do not have this experience, but I look at all these matters from a social point of view, from the point of view of human rights and from the point of view of the important value of the rule of law in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to refer to the fundamentals of the reform. This is where the various words came from today, from the judge and in our questions... I remind you that the reason for the reform of the judiciary... was more of them being given, but these basic ones were the elimination of The privileged caste and decommunization, and this is what the President has spoken about many times abroad, and has spoken about it in the United States, and has spoken about it in European countries, speaking about Polish judiciary. So that I have no idea, Judge, Mr President, why you went so lightly over the decommunization question. After all, it was such a major task. You said it wasn't interested that it was less important. Second thing. I'd like to say that if you wanted to eliminate this privileged caste, you can't act like a new privileged caste right now. And your translations of the statement of property, in my opinion, should not take place in the form that it was today. You should admit it, you should say that you simply didn't do it consciously that you were wrong. And you're referring to something like that... to some sort of doubt, etc., etc. If in Poland at the moment there are proceedings against parliamentarians concerning claims of property, if there are persons who have been convicted of this... Please note that at the moment there is an indictment against the West Pomeranian Marshal for the fact that... [[Pomorskie.]] ...he didn't put anything in there... [[Pomorskie.]] Pomorskie, I'm sorry. ...that he didn't put anything in the property statement that he was on some foundation. Well, if that's what we expect. We, citizens The judge should pay particular attention to his statement of property, otherwise we could say that this is some special caste... I'm already skipping that KRS spokesperson's salary. It turns out that even though you've been pointing at the judges of property before, you're doing everything you can to make some money on the side and get some more. At least some of you... That's what it turns out right now, based on the statements we're reading. So I ask: why was this reform, and why are we eating this frog? It compromised us in the world, caused us to be in an impasse, in a huge impasse concerning the Polish justice system. You've destroyed respect for judges, and right now the neo-KRS, as we say, isn't guarding, not defending judges, is really boycotting. And you're explaining it... You feel sorry for the new guys who meet with social ostracism. And I'm not surprised, sir, I'm not surprised at that. Since the KRS is obliged to uphold the independence of the courts and the independence of the judges, please really take care of Judge Dudzicz, who preached the contents... I will no longer repeat them today, but I have preached them publicly, Judge. Because this is a public statement on Twitter, the citizens read it. And that's embarrassing for a judge. I'd say, "Oh, yeah, let's all just... But I remind you, Judge, that, after all, at the time when you underestimate what Judge Dudzicz has done, there are disciplinary matters concerning the statements of judges who criticize judicial reform. Well, how can one judge discipline, dissuade their work, dissuade their statements, and at the same time when Judge Dudzicz says things on Twitter that I mentioned, say, "Ah, what did he say to himself?" These are public statements too! Maybe I'll exchange these cases with the judges, and maybe you'll be interested, so maybe these cases will be dropped, maybe somebody will finally sober up. These are cases concerning you, Judge Olympia Barańska-Małuszek from Gorzów, Judge Mark Celej, Piotr Gąciark and Judge Tulei from the District Court in Warsaw. This is the case of Judge Małgorzata Kluziak from the District Court in Warsaw and Judge Rafał Maciejewski from Łódź. This is about disciplinary action for criticising the administration of courts. So it's not right to criticize, it's disciplinary, but it's okay to give such embarrassing statements? It's unthinkable. Judge Jerzy Stępień, former head of the Constitutional Court, has a disciplinary matter only for having spoken at a public assembly That's the way it's put it. Well, excuse me, isn't Twitter a public place? Everybody goes in there, everybody reads it. It's discussed and it's embarrassing, it's embarrassing to the judge in front of society. The second thing I'd like to say, and I want to make it clear to all of us how we're sitting here. If, in the autumn of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union decides that the neo-KRS is wrongly established, as indicated by the Ombudsman of the TSUE... Here I'd like to say that what you said was that it was just some sort of statement from the spokesperson that he said something to himself... No, that's how it's gonna be. He just signalled what was going to happen. And that's gonna be in the fall. The judgments given by the judges nominated by the neo-KRS may be challenged. These judges are now 543, 293 people have already been appointed, and 38 of these judges are sitting in the Supreme Court. Their list is made by organizations or individuals, and the list of these judges was drawn up by Mr. Patrick Wachowiec, who actually does it socially because you don't do it, you don't have it... So that we could just be facing a disaster, a disaster involving undermining judgments. That's what you've led to. Is there any way to fight this? Fortunately, the assembly of judges of appeals courts in Poland does not give an opinion on candidates for judges, refuse to cooperate with the new National Courts of Justice, because reason dictates not to increase this chaos. Here I quote the statement of Judge Łętowska. It is simply the judges themselves trying to defend themselves against the consequences of this pitiful, fatal and illegal reform which led to the creation of a neo-KRS. It can be said that judges, feeling like European judges, abstaining from opinion, not designating cases to be tried and refusing to sit with those judges who may be considered illegally appointed, are at the moment defending the Polish justice system against a massacre disaster. You're... [[Time's up.]] Thank you. Well, then I just... Maybe I won't be performing again. I would like to say, Mr President, that your statement today shows that the whole KRS simply exceeds this task for this difficult time. You shouldn't have done that. I'm not surprised that you're subject to ostracism because you shouldn't have agreed to sit in the National Court Register at all. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u59	Senator Shark has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u60	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Each of us, citizens, for various reasons, may also be on the side of those who take charge of the defendants. Life brings different options, unfortunately this may happen and you would like to feel as a citizen that judicial proceedings will be fair. Now that we're starting to contest the prosecution's proceedings, these elections and the promotions of politicians... 'Cause that's what promotions are. It is precisely in judges that citizens must and should see This is the ultimate source of justice, they should have no doubt about it, because this is the basis of the rule of law, this is the basis of a democratic rule of law. But being a member of the European family also guarantees us this basis. If today we have given you examples of the wrong behaviour of the judges, their appointment and the identification of these judges, then we have done so because we also care about them. Whatever side we're sitting on. In order that they should not only be good, just men, but also properly chosen judges, so that there should never be any doubt as to whether the judge's judgment will not be challenged, it will not be against the law. But it is their identification before the judgment of the TSUE that can be aroused by many, many Not only ours, the representatives of the nation, but also the citizens' doubts and fears. And we shouldn't... because we and you should guarantee that when a man enters the court, he had the right to a fair and just court, he had the guarantee that this sentence would never be challenged. You were also asked questions about your attitude toward the insults of the judges. Because they were insults. I am also saying this in order to make sure that people are aware that they are not judged by communists and thieves, only by elected judges and just judges. While you were at the TSUE meeting, I was already talking about this - in which a representative of the Ministry of Justice was also involved, as if blocking these incorrect decisions, talking about robbers in robberies. How do you feel now sitting in your home court with judges like that? After all, they spoke generally of judges as robbers in robberies. Shouldn't you react then? I mean, you're... I'm not talking about the fact that this is your colleague, but you should really react because you're a judge, not because you're the chairman of the National Judicial Council. How did you feel when you were driving around in a car, passing the big billboards that were screaming about robbers in robberies? They were just supposed to be advertising our country. It's a shame, isn't it? Why... Last year we asked about it. Why didn't you react then? It's not like you're supposed to react right now. I witnessed such an event, being a citizen, immediately - if I had the right and had the opportunity - I would have broken it off. We said, point these people out and convict them. But you knew very well that they were often seriously ill, mentally ill people who were left with... A long time ago, an application has been made... Excuse me, these people haven't served as a judge in a while. You were talking about freedom of speech. Is this just about the deputy spokesperson? I will remind you that this is the deputy spokesperson of the State of the Authority, which is called the National Council of the Court of Justice. And he has the right to say things like that. Because it's not funny or funny, Judge. It's really not funny what he's saying. He's reporting in... This is the judge, and he represents you because he's replacing the press secretary. And why doesn't that apply to other judges, why do they have no right? They are deprived of the right to speak, to speak freely, according to their conscience. After all, you refer them to the Disciplinary Board and they have disciplinary matters. It's called freezing effect. A lot of people got scared, a lot of people got scared. I want to guarantee you that I know these people. I hope... During different periods of my life, I was on one side and on the other side - I was accused and tried, but I was also on the opposite side when there were judges who were suspected of various crimes. And I was ruthless as a member of the National Judicial Council, but I think I was fairly able to judge that. And do you remember your colleague, Judge Pawełczyk-Woicka, consulted before the secret vote with Minister Ziobra on how to vote? [[That's bullshit.]] Judge, Judge, I appeal to you as a former member of the National Judicial Council and the person who took part in these trials after 1989. Judge, don't destroy the blessings we have. Do not destroy free courts or free judges. Independence, independence is our treasure, our shared treasure, also yours. Judge, there are different ways in life, and I wouldn't want you to ever be the subject of such accusations and slanders as are now being accused of free and independent judges. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u61	Senator Zientarski will speak for the second time.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u62	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm so complementary. I have 5 minutes to refer to a thread that Senator Sztark has quite rightly touched just now, but also to Senator Zdrojewska, namely, the failure of the National Judicial Council to act in defence of the judges. Please follow, Judge, the previous term of office, the period until the end of 2015. How many resolutions were made by the National Judicial Council in defense of the judges, even though there were no charges of violation of the Constitution? I want you to follow this up. And then there wasn't that kind of weight. The lack of reaction simply indicates acceptance of such a position, such slandering of the judge's state and such depreciation of this wonderful profession, to which I have a special reverence as the son of a judge. I admire those judges who give up promotions in public. Ladies and gentlemen, after all, What I'm about to say is obvious, we all know that. It's giving up money, it's just... It is because they are so experienced judges that they should have the money, the money they really deserve, only that they do not reach for it, and do not reach for the principles, in the name of the principle, in the name of the judge's oath on the constitution. They can't be persuaded by silver. I've already talked about this quasi-independentness, even in context. Once again, I would like to emphasise the opinion of the legislative acts. I ask: how, then, can we talk about the independence of the National Judicial Council in the event of an opinion in accordance with the will of the Ministry of Justice, in the case of those compromising acts we have discussed? After all, here in this courtroom, most of them were playing, as to your first president of the Supreme Court, we were addressing your president. You've been playing games, like this, what does that mean? You said, "The lady is at rest, and there is nothing to talk about at all, because such a law has been created, it has been assessed and so on." Of course, it wasn't rated by the authorities. I always asked who gave the opinion, and there were no such authorities. But the National Judicial Council has so far been an authority. When we were preparing... In the Legislative Commission, which I presided over by two terms, we took first into account the opinions of the National Council of the Court of Justice in carrying out the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, because we knew that it would be very independent from the Ministry. After all, we know what are the conclusions, what are the positions of the ministry, because the minister is saying. So? You want me to read something that's a reproduction? [[Time's up.]] Here you have shown, already this reporting year you have shown yours, in quotes, independence, total independence and your unusability. I am no longer talking about the issue of wrong vocation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u63	You have the voice of Senator Gogacz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u64	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I have also decided to speak in this debate, despite the fact that the information presented to us today by the President of the National Judicial Council was very comprehensive, thorough, careful, systemic and could actually be imagined today's debate without my vote. Nevertheless, when I heard from the opposition state, the Civic Platform, a priori, at the very beginning of the definition of the National Judicial Council as an unauthorised body, as a neo-KRS, I could not refrain from speaking. I'd like to ask you a question. Senator Zientarski has spent all his time, but the next country, colleagues will be performing. Please tell me here, in the Senate of the Republic of Poland: and on what basis do you state that the National Council of Courts is an unauthorized body? On the basis of today's Senate, from this point of view, the debate on the National Judicial Council... Have you considered the effects that this assessment of the National Judicial Council might have? The National Judicial Council in its current term of office has been in place since last year. The National Judicial Council shall act on the basis of the Act on the National Judicial Council. This bill was signed by the president. Has it been contested by the Constitutional Tribunal? If it were contested, we wouldn't be discussing it here today. [[We've withdrawn all of them...]] The State itself, of its own free will, with the power of not knowing what authority, states that the ordinary law, the Act on the National Judicial Council, is a law which concerns an unauthorized authority. Ladies and gentlemen, this was the case in the previous term of the National Judicial Council when it was already adopted, but the new council has not yet been elected. In January or February 2018, the previous National Judicial Council took a position, most of the previous National Judicial Council took a position calling on all judges, i.e. those 10 000 judges. This position has been addressed to all That they do not apply to the new National Judicial Council so that they do not submit their candidacy. I asked at the National Judicial Council: on what basis do you judges, who represent the previous National Judicial Council, decide to send such a position? When you state senators of the Republic of Poland today in this debate, you define that the National Court Council, the National Court Council, is an unauthorized body, you send a signal to those who are currently running, take part in competitions for judges, in competitions announced for judges, you send a signal to those who receive, and among others. Yesterday, they received nominations from the President of the Republic of Poland that they were elected, assessed by an unauthorized body. Few of this, you send a signal to all those who will be judged, who will be parties to the jury, on matters that will be conducted by judges who have been consulted by the current National Judicial Council. And that's why my strong objection to you being so judgmental of the current National Judicial Council. Senator Zientarski spoke here, of course not waiting, knowing that there is no judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, on the basis of: but why the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, after all I can say that art. 187 basic law, constitution... that there's a contradiction... [[Talking in the O.R.]] And the article... Of course, in the part that talks about choosing 15 judges. But, Mr. Senator, there's no information here about who's gonna choose these 15 judges from the National Courthouse Council. The fact that the Sejm elects 4 Members, that the Senate elects 4 Senators, the information is, while it is left to regulate in the ordinary law. And that's the ordinary law that's been passed. Ladies and gentlemen, I urge you not to send such signals, because it is very damaging to the system of law in Poland. These precedents, because these are precedents. I'm sorry, but I I don't think anybody's done it before. It may result in any other law being able to determine by its own authority that it is incompatible with the Constitution, without waiting for what the Constitutional Tribunal finds. I am very opposed to such a state of action. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u65	Thank you very much. Senator Aleksander Pociej will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u66	Mr. Marshal, I'm going to be very careful to start seriously... This is the first time I've come to stand on this platform in front of you. [[It's my pleasure.]] I'm glad I didn't make a language lapsus. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: Lapsus, who was...]] [[Voice from the room: In the Seym...]] I cannot ignore what the President, Senator Gogacz, has said. This report can be called an in-depth, reliable, well-cut report. But what does that mean? I suspect that, along with your judge, we learned from the same books and probably studied with the same legal authorities, from them, so to speak, we received a certain rhythm, some beliefs and some axioms, which I thought would be identical. They're not. I know that in every professional group Are they judges or are they lawyers or are they doctors? There are internal purely political games, including in local governments, in bodies to which these local governments can recommend someone. It's clear, there's no doubt about it. But there are some things beyond divisions that shouldn't be doubted. And there shouldn't be any doubt And that's the question. As to how the legislator has cut the choice to the National Judicial Council. I never found the judge's statement. And if she was, I apologize in advance. In which you would like to disclose whether you are calling on the Marshal of the Sejm to disclose the names of those who supported you and your colleagues. Shame or mystery? Why don't we still have those names? [[Maybe they weren't there.]] [[Maybe it wasn't.]] Senator Gogacz asked us on what basis we can claim and in general wonder whether the method of calling this advice is good or bad, since the Constitutional Tribunal is positive on this subject. Who are we? Mr. Senator, there's an old saying: what is a horse, everyone sees. If your child had a fever, would you need a doctor to tell you that he has a fever? No. And if the doctor comes and finds out Contrary to what you see, you can see that the child has a fever. That everything's okay, you're not gonna treat the baby? In my opinion, this is the answer to our doubts. Why are we having this debate? Where did she come from? You've been in opposition for eight years. Did you have any grounds... once. And that is what Senator Rooster spoke to me personally from this speaker at the beginning of this term, that I, when it came to the Constitutional Tribunal, abstained. You had to act like me at the time of all these changes, for once, if you had any doubts, and we know you had those doubts. What Senator Shark was talking about is absolutely fundamental to me. I haven't seen the reaction of the National Council, at all, the National Judicial Council to this defaming you... Because you're the judge, Judge, except you're the head of the National Judicial Council. I didn't see your severe resistance when this campaign pointed to all the judges as almost a mob deal. And you're telling Senator Gogacz what damage we're doing when we're criticizing the National Judicial Council. [[That's what I'm talking about!]] And do you know what kind of damage a campaign has done to citizens, pointing out directly that this is some kind of mafia? How can a citizen have any confidence in justice? It's a shame. It's a real shame. You're telling Senator Gogacz that we're talking about the doubts about the judges that you've nominated for president at the moment. And tell me, Mr. Senator, when we've been saying for three years that the president is holding back with the nominations that there are 100 vacancies where there are, more than 1,000 vacancies... [[300...]] [[500...]] No, there was so much uninhabited in common courts. Why? Because the president was waiting for the new National Council. Well, that's a clean policy. This isn't any concern for the justice system, it's about it going faster, it's just a kind of blockage: I block until I have my man, and then I nominate him. Once again, I'm going back to our mutual, probably, college road. Mr. Judge, the jury will judge your colleagues, will they judge res judicata? Are they going to understand what this is all about? It doesn't make you reflect, doesn't it? I mean, besides that... I'm already putting aside the fact that another group chose the KRS, created only under certain political arrangements, but in such matters it's your duty to respond. Because of all our experience You're even bigger than me. At least this should raise doubts about you, and our entire way of life. You should have them when you're a lawyer, someone educated. The judge is the crown of all legal professions. You should talk about this beyond the political divisions, because this should, as a matter of fact, result from your experience. I didn't see it, which is why I find this report lame. 'Cause if you came here to tell me just about the statistics, the posts and the quantities... You were talking about dead things, you didn't say a word, so to speak, in defense of the spirit. And now that you're there... I remind you, for example. the position of Judge Beszczółkowski at the Constitutional Court. Why? Well, he's an educated and spirited lawyer, a lawyer, and now a judge, but when he was elected, even by another side, he could rise above it. And I don't see that in the actions of the National Judicial Council. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u67	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Bogdan Klich will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u68	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! You have to have a very short memory to ask how the opposition senators undermine the legitimacy of the National Judicial Council. And you have to have a lot of nerve to acknowledge that the National Judicial Council as it is at the moment is a legitimate body of a democratic state. Neither is it a legal body nor does it have any legitimacy to perform its function. And we've talked about it many times. We have repeatedly observed the Senators of the ruling option, we have said to stop their urges with regard to the KRS. We have repeatedly reminded of the role the National Courts play in the legal system of the State, its importance for the independence of the judiciary. Finally, most importantly, we talked about the fact that without an independent KRS, such as was designed in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, there will be no independent justice system. And if there is no independent justice system, the rights of the citizens of the Republic of Poland will not be properly protected. In case you've forgotten. I have the impression that some of you have forgotten I will remind you that the last debate on this subject took place exactly a year ago here in this Chamber. Exactly a year ago we talked about the fact that another amendment of the law on the National Court Register is a threat to the state's order for two fundamental reasons. Firstly, because it allows to draw up lists of recommended candidates despite the lack of documents confirming the professional experience of individual candidates, as well as their scientific achievements, superior opinions, publication lists, etc. Secondly, because an exception will be established for obtaining the validity of the resolution of the National Court of Justice. The challenge of such resolutions by certain candidates participating in the competition will not constitute an obstacle to the appointment of the person concerned as judges. End of quote. This was a quote from what was mentioned both at the committee meeting and here in plenary. I will not quote myself or my opposition colleagues on the articles of the Constitution that were broken as a result of the majority vote on the submission of last July. You have made an informed decision that you will deliberately break the Constitution of the Republic of Poland by adopting an unconstitutional law. With full awareness, you voted for her, and we fully, so to speak, held you accountable before this vote. What's more, we weren't the only ones who followed. It was also done by those who stood outside the window, who stood here for long hours, day and night, and reminded you that you were assassinating the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. This was not the first attempt in the history of this parliament. It was another one. It has been broken, as you can count, about 13 articles of the Constitution in the last almost four years. And that entitles us to appeal every time. No one will shut our mouths and we will remind you that you have broken the constitution in the past. If you intend to do so in the future, we will talk about it loudly too, because the rule of law in Poland obliges us to do so and we are bound by the Senator's mandate which we have received from our voters. Therefore, Mr President, I would like to address you. Your appeal to stop our appeals is simply ineffective. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u69	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Bogdan Borusewicz will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u70	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! I would like to thank Polish judges, especially regional judges, who are the most, for defending the independence of the courts and the independence of the judges. You're defending these two basic principles, not the National Judicial Council. The National Judicial Council shall not take any action when the judges are under pressure. Cases are set up to deal with the newly established Chamber dealing with the liability of judges. The National Judicial Council does not speak when, when the highest state authorities, the ruling authorities, are calling into question and question the authority of the judges. The prime minister does it, the president does it, public media does it. The media, which are directed by the current ruling Law and Justice. It is outrageous that in a situation where judges are repeatedly accused of being thieves because a judge stole a drill when it is alleged that there are judges of martial law in court, although the average age of judges is 40 years... If there are such accusations, you have to say who you're accusing, point your finger at him, not extend these accusations to the whole group. It's a court-martial win-win. What may those who lose cases in civil courts feel are mostly 50% , and in criminal matters probably more than 80% What are they supposed to think about the judges who pass judgment? Why isn't the National Judicial Council taking the floor? Afraid? You're all judges. The majority of the National Judicial Council is the judges you have immunity. In a situation where repressive actions relate to whether they primarily affect the judges of the association of the Iustitia... This can be seen because, in fact, the entire headship of the "Iustitii" is subject to various disciplinary proceedings. What are you doing? Are you trying to step in here, try to speak up? The judges have the right to act in associations to organize themselves. Since the current KRS is okay, it was created in accordance with the Constitution, why is there no positive opinion on this subject expressed by any department of law of the Polish university? All these opinions are negative, so where are we looking for authority? Professors aren't authorities? The law departments that have finished the judges, which you have also finished, aren't they authority to anyone? If everything was okay, then why was the current KRS suspended, as a member, in the European Judicial Council Network? Is it a reward, or is it a clear opinion on how the National Courts should be set up? You're saying everything's okay. First the Constitutional Court, then the Supreme Court, then the KRS, one at a time. From the changes in the Supreme Court, from what the current government wanted to do and was supposed to be unconstitutional, we had to withdraw. Unfortunately, what happened to the KRS is another element, not judicial reform, but the destruction of the judiciary. Has the efficiency of the court been improved, or has the number of cases to be dealt with decreased? No, she's gotten bigger. And so it will be because you have caused a state of vibration of this system, and this state of law in Poland does not serve. If everything was okay, then why don't we know the names of the people who volunteered for the KRS? Why? Why does the court have to force names to be revealed? And they still don't have those names. [[They haven't been...]] [[And they're not here yet.]] [[Voice from the room: And there will be no.]] They're not here yet. What does that mean? Why is this hidden? Or were they gone? Maybe we're getting signatures now. There's a lot of distractions. This is absolutely unacceptable, because the matter of appointment for such important functions should be transparent, clear, everyone should know who signed proposals, candidates for judges to the National Court Register, what persons, whether there were collusions, or brother, sister to brother or wife to husband... [[Voice from the hall: This is where you are...]] Why isn't this case revealed? It also puts a shadow on the functioning of the current KRS. That's it. That's it. I've read the composition of the various committees that operate within the National Courts. Thank you for that information. Thanks to this, I know that Mrs Krystyna Pawłowicz is part of the Committee on Professional Ethics of Judges and Court Assistants. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[He's a habilitated doctor and authority.]] Congratulations! Congratulations! Many times we listened to her jumps, many times listened to her extreme expressions. I really congratulate you on your nomination. It's a sign of the KRS. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u71	Senator Konstanta Radziwiłł will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u72	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The judiciary is not my domain, but I object to what has beenfallen here many times during questions and discussions that only judges can judge. That's the thesis you're just saying to bore you. We are not dealing with any extraordinary people here, and the matter of the judiciary concerns all citizens. There's no reason for any group of people to be excluded from the normal evaluation of normal people. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the report, which, as some have complained, was boring. Yeah, it may have been a bit of a busy thing, because it just represented the normal work of a normal state body. And there is nothing strange about the fact that there are no flowers, emotions or things in it that would stimulate any additional, I would say, other than substantive strings in those who are readers or hearers of such a report. Thank you, Mr President, for the way it looks. I must say that, having listened to this multi-hour tirade, these questions, and then the voices in the discussion, I have the overwhelming impression that the vast majority of the opposition's respondents and debaters still do not take note of one thing, i.e. the verdict the voters gave. We operate on certain principles that should apply to all of us. Sometimes someone wins, sometimes someone loses, and whoever loses has to just deal with it. And the state still can't accept that. [[You're breaking the constitution...]] That's right, you're admitting the role of the Constitutional Court. Speaking of breaking the Constitution, you're going in your shoes while there are special procedures to judge what's in line with the Constitution. Of course, there is a time for discussion on this subject during the legislative procedure, but if the authorities of the Sejm, the Senate and the President are responsible for bringing the legislation to an end, we are dealing with And let me remind you that this is one of the basic principles of almost all countries, not just Poland. With something like a presumption of constitutionality. As long as the relevant body, the Constitutional Tribunal, does not undermine the constitutionality of the rules, they shall apply. And you don't have to be a lawyer, you don't have to be a judge to know such a very, very old legal saying It applies to everyone, not some, but all of them. And I really find it difficult to listen to how you think one by one, whether you actually state that it is unconstitutional, so you can not accept it, not implement it, not acknowledge it. It's just a scandal. We live in a state of law, and we all have to give up on that law. If someone does not like something, then there are ways to try to ask the right authorities, not necessarily outside Poland, but in Poland, whether the law is or is not compatible with the Constitution. The Constitutional Tribunal shall act and evaluate the various provisions. Not further than yesterday or the day before yesterday, we were involved in repairing the law that was unconstitutional in the eyes of the Constitutional Tribunal. For God's sake, take advantage of this and in this case, if you suspect something's working wrong. At the same time, the state is completely unaware that citizens, passing one sentence after another by voting, show where they see an opportunity to solve problems that they see in the naked eye. Because the fact that the justice system hasn't since today, not since yesterday, but it's been judged very badly for a very long time, it's just a fact. People are suffering because things are stalling, that things are not settled according to such, I would say, a social sense of justice. And there's no doubt that it doesn't depend on assesors, secretaries or court janitors, but above all on judges. Something doesn't work well here, and citizens see it too. It's not outrageous, it's invented that some judge, not all the judges, but some judge, stole a drill and that some other judge turned the money that was lying out there. Right? These are facts. And you can't say that those facts weren't there, because it just happened in front of everyone. It is quite obvious that judges should be an example to others, but unfortunately there are such examples that they are not. What's going on? The judge's environment is behind them. This can't be happening! The National Judicial Council does not have to consist solely of judges in order to judge the judge. This is not a situation that exists only in Poland. In many countries it is. And very well, because judges are people who are meant to serve citizens. So, ladies and gentlemen, let's get down on the ground, get down on the ground. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u73	Thank you very much. Senator Aleksander Pociej will speak. Second appearance, so five minutes, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u74	Thank you very much. I'm not hiding that I didn't want to talk, but once again, Senator Radziwiłł provoked me to speak. You have begun your speech with the statement that you are not a lawyer and this is not your area - and that is true. That's what I think. And, between you and me, I think you should be more concerned with the lack of drugs in pharmacies, queues... [[Joy in the Chamber]] He quoted... [[Applause]] I think it's absolutely what the senator would do. Besides, as we've already mentioned, and since you wanted to tell the senator, In Latin, and you said "Lex dura," "Sed lex" and I will remind you of "medice," cura te ipsum" which at the moment the people explain to patients, heal yourself... [[applause]] ...because you can't really wait for... [[Not a patient, doctor!]] Ad rem, ad rem, that is to say... Mr. Senator said that citizens were looking forward to speeding up procedures, and you are absolutely right, but it was only necessary to say that for three years all these changes led to the fact that in the Supreme Court the expectation increased twice. For the last three years. This is what I was talking about earlier in my speech - that for three years Mr President blocked the appointments of the judge that there were as many vacancies as there were. Tell me... Now that you're a specialist in our justice system, step into the podium and give me one statutory change that was going to speed up the procedures to improve them. The last one who did this was Gowin. And what did you do with it? Minister Ziobro threw it in the trash on the first day. And that was the only... I was against her. I admit I made a mistake. I underestimated that effort. But it was the only reform that could in any way speed up procedures and give citizens justice. So, Mr. Senator, once again, you're not going to give me a single example, because everything we're talking about here... these changes in the KRS haven't accelerated anything. This mess only causes and only that we have a system of justice, which in a moment - and we have already had the first examples - will not be recognised by our European partners. And that's something to think about. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u75	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Zbigniew Silence will speak. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u76	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Chairman of the National Judicial Council. Dear Senators! To be honest, I did not intend to speak in this debate, because as regards the compatibility of the KRS Act with the Constitution, I spoke at a time when we were debating this issue. That's when I clearly pointed out that art. 187 of the Constitution does not prejudge which body, who is to choose the 15 judges of the National Courts of Justice, and therefore there is a certain decision-making freedom for Parliament, because the Constitution refers to legal regulations in this respect. So we have adopted a legislative regulation that really deviates from what was before, namely, it is not the judges who choose the 15 members of the National Courts of Justice from among themselves, but the Parliament who makes this choice. And this is a decision, in my opinion, as I said at the time, in line with the constitution. One can, of course, discuss which option is better and for whom. Perhaps it would be better for the judges to even be able to say that the option in which they would choose from among themselves. But that is precisely why there should not be a kind of state in a state in the form of a favoration of one power which prevails over the other authorities. It is precisely what you often refer to as an opposition, that is, the Montesque principle of three divisions of authorities, that this balance should exist. Ladies and gentlemen, today you are criticizing, condemning the report by the President of the National Courts Council, even with emotional commitment. I wonder what to call it. Yesterday, Senator Borowski called my speech a filipica, even though I think I spoke very moderately, not emotionally. And I would rather call today's speeches by most of my previous speakers filipinos. Ladies and gentlemen, I am particularly appealing to my colleagues by profession, to the patrons. Well, unfortunately I don't see them here because Senator Pociej and Senator Zientarski left. Referring to ad personam's arguments, that is to say, criticizing someone personally and pointing out to him, just as Senator Pociej did five minutes ago, saying that if you are not a lawyer, you shouldn't be addressing legal issues, you shouldn't talk about it, just address the issue of lack of drugs... Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is really not the way to argue. [[Applause]] And that is why I call on us to approach the matter in substance and without emotion. The President presented the actions of the National Courts Council in a very reliable manner. I can honestly say that I always regret if someone tries to account for the person they judge, pointing out what they allegedly didn't do. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is a little out of order. The President presented these actions, which are crucial for the actions of the National Judicial Council. That is to say, it is about presenting candidates to the President for the appointment of judges. But the demand from the President to be a kind of demiurge to ensure that the court functions in every corner, how the Disciplinary Chamber is to function in the Supreme Court... Isn't that an exaggeration? Isn't that, ladies and gentlemen, a request for something that Mr. President isn't capable of doing? He's not able to carry all the weights you're making. Surely the National Judicial Council is not entitled to interfere in the decisions of an independent court, the Disciplinary Chamber. Ladies and gentlemen, you're also raising an alarm that this Disciplinary Board is allegedly hurting someone because they're in some kind of proceedings. But let's look at the results, ladies and gentlemen. Has anyone been hurt? As far as I know, I think only one judge has been punished so far, and that's the lightest punishment. The penalty of retribution. I can't remember what for, anyway, for some act that actually deserved to be punished, but not more severe. Therefore, this Chamber operates in a very rational, very reasonable manner. It's hard for her to blame anything. I would like to draw attention, for example, to the case law of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, which states that state conduct must be assessed not in terms of what are the theoretically existing rules that offer certain possibilities, but in terms of how you benefit from these rules, how you function. Even if there are rules that allow for certain restrictions, and the State does not use them, no tribunal of such a State will convict, it will not judge that this is a violation of human rights. And what's been going on so far, ladies and gentlemen? I'm sorry, I'm gonna go into personal experience. How did our courts function? Wasn't it embarrassing when I received the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg on the case of Adam Słomka, who was convicted in the year when she was still in charge of the option that today is in opposition? For what? For making fun of the justice system in Kiszczak's trial. Well, ladies and gentlemen, these are some experiences that point to the morbid functioning of the justice system. Or let us recall all these decisions regarding the length of the procedure. Do I still have time? Mr. Marshal says I still have one. Yes? [[I'm not pointing at anything.]] No? Sorry, I misunderstood the gesture. Ladies and gentlemen, what about all these lengthy proceedings? And the fact that at some point the European Court of Human Rights adopted a simplified procedure for dealing with Polish cases concerning the length of proceedings or filing interim detentions? Ladies and gentlemen, once upon a time, a few years ago, while I was a senator of the 2007-2011 term, the Supreme Court Penalty Chamber stated that it was not possible to judge a violation of the fundamental principle of the prohibition of retroactivity in the criminal law of judges of martial law who often imposed severe penalties on activists of By the way, also illegal martial law? In the name of some kind of judicial solidarity, the Criminal Chamber has adopted a resolution to be ashamed of. I remember a very sharp emotional speech by our fellow senator, patron Piotr Andrzejewski, who then referred to it as the cooperation of the Supreme Court in committing a criminal offence. Because, ladies and gentlemen, this kind of action by a judge who convicts on the basis of a rule that has not yet been declared... Well, what else do you call it? Of course, I don't want to be the judge of those judges who ruled that way at the time, but, ladies and gentlemen, it's all about the principle. If the Supreme Court goes that far, then we can actually rebel. And society is rebelling against such a functioning justice system. Of course, there's a case. and this must also be emphasised. Whatever the criticism, care must be taken to ensure that the justice system has authority. Well, the kind of media presentations that actually judge some judges from honor and faith, e.g. mentioning by the name of a judge ruling in a given city with a suggestion that it is supposed to be a briber or a scandalist, that is unacceptable. It is important to remember that judges have a code of ethics that they should not speak in principle in the media. I remember how we were taught on the judge's application that the judge was speaking in the judgment and in the justification of the sentence, not in the media. So the judges are this group that is weak and delicate, in the sense that there are no tools to defy the charges that are formulated against them. And you have to keep that in mind, too. and in the name of justice to mention But, as I say, it does not exempt us from the reforms that were necessary. Someone here mentioned, one of my previous speakers, that supposedly nothing our option did to improve the judiciary was perhaps you were the patron of comfort. In particular, as regards the slowness of the procedure. What do you mean, nothing? After all, we have passed a law amending the so-called law. a complaint against the negligence of the proceedings. We have introduced a rule that in 1 year's delay in proceedings a certain amount of compensation should be... [[It doesn't matter, because...]] [[But will it speed up?]] ...and other standards. [[Is that going to speed things up?]] So, ladies and gentlemen, it is important to remember all this and always have a healthy distance in evaluating reality rather than falling into extremes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u77	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Sławomir Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u78	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! At this point, I wasn't going to speak... [[Then don't take it.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: You're not a lawyer.]] ...but I feel called to the vote because I do not agree to such objections to the opposition senators, in which they are deprived of their right to criticism, the right to pay attention to the shortcomings that arise in our legislative work, or the claim that they are criticizing the actions of the institution included in the system of constitutional power in Poland. It's not just our law. I'll tell you more. It's our duty, every one of us. Whenever we think that the law is wrongly created or an institution that is important for the functioning of the state, but also for every citizen, it is wrong to perform its function or it has been wrongly chosen, in our opinion, we have a duty to the state, the nation and each of our voters to speak about it loudly... [[Yes, sir.]] ...and observe what the effects of the institution's operation can be... [[Applause]] ...in a fairly common opinion, not just the law departments, not just the international institutions... Let me remind you that the European Network of National Judicial Councils by 100:6 votes decided to suspend the Polish National Judicial Council in the rights of a member of this organisation. Why? Because, according to the opinion of the quite common and compatible Polish National Judicial Council, it does not meet the requirement of independence, independence in its functioning. Should we keep our mouths shut about this? On the contrary, we should say that the effects of action, the effects of judgments and judgments of those courts, whose compositions may be challenged because of incorrect, unlawful indications of the National Court Council, may in future be the subject of proceedings for damages, may also be, as a condition... Lawyers know that the issuing of a judgment by the unauthorized court is invalid by law. How many such judgments will be questioned on the basis of this condition? Ladies and gentlemen, do not take away the opposition's right to criticism, because we speak in the interest of not only our constituents, but, I think, in the interest of the legal order in Poland, bearing in mind the effects of this activity, the activities of the National Judicial Council. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u79	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Would Mr President like to take the floor and comment on the senators' speeches... [[Voice from the room: No.]] ...in a discussion? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] [[Voice from the room: But he doesn't want to.]] It's a possibility. It's up to the president. [[President of Leszek Mazur National Judicial Council: I am at your disposal.]] [[Voice from the room: Is that a yes?]] [[You're welcome.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u80	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wouldn't want to create an impression, not even the slightest slightest disregard... Since there are voices in the discussion, some questions and comments, I will take advantage of the opportunity to respond to them in a way that is as short as possible. In Senator Ziientarski's statement, there was an appeal to questioning the national status... of the possibility of questioning the status of the National Judicial Council because of the views of Mr Tanczew's spokesperson. Well, I would like to say that this opinion is very categoric and, in our view, not accurate. It refers to the fact that any relationship or any dependence of judicial councils or judicial councils on a legislative or executive body points to a flaw in such a solution. So it's not about proportion, it's not about balance, it's about whether the judges have an advantage, or whether the representatives of other organs have an advantage. The statement that there can be no relationship would indicate that there should be no representative of any authority other than the judicial one. However, the solution so far with regard to the composition of the National Council, i.e. with the participation of the senators, Members and the President's representative, has not been contested, has not been questioned. Only the way judges are appointed to the National Council by the Sejm is questioned. I would like to refer here to a lecture that took place in the Supreme Court's Extraordinary Audit Chamber. There was an outstanding American constitutionalist, Professor. Forte, theoretician and practice, advisor to various institutions and Americans, and supranationals, who pointed out that sovereignty has two dimensions. The first is a legitimizing dimension, and we would have to deal with this if 15 judges were elected to the judicial board. What else, however, is the exercise of competence already of an operational nature. I would like to point out that the election of judges by the Sejm is an expression of social control over the justice system, democratic control. This in no way diminishes the independence of this constitutional body, because after the election there are no operational or executive relationships between the body which has elected the judges to the council and that council. We're just acting on our own. I am even saying that senators or Members who participate in the work of the National Council do not represent the Sejm either, but represent themselves. Everyone's doing a stand-alone ticket. And I think that when working in the National Council, they do not receive any instructions or recommendations on how to decide how to vote on individual matters or how to evaluate draft acts. Senator Zientarski tried to dissuade whether he questioned my assessment of the way in which the judges were elected to the National Council, i.e. that it was the choice of judges by judges, broken down into a kind of curia representing the various levels of the judiciary. He said that the fact that within almost 30 years of the functioning of the National Judicial Council, only three regional judges were part of this council does not call into question the conclusion that judges, the majority of judges, and thus also the judges of the regional courts, were represented because those who prevailed in that Council, i.e. the judges of the higher courts, had also once passed through the regional court. However, this curial division is very, very layered, very fixed. I would like to remind you that there are assemblies of judges at district level and at appeal levels and that they are completely independent of each other. There's no substitute for competence here. Therefore, if a judge of the regional court was elected to the National Council, he necessarily represented regional judges. And it would be difficult for me to defend the thesis that if the National Council was composed of appeal judges or Supreme Court judges, it would ensure proper representation of judges from the regional level. There was a thesis here, too, or the question that we're dealing with... Senator Zdrojewska referred to decommunization. I just don't see the role of the National Council here. Not only is it because we have much to do, that we have clearly defined certain statutory or statutory tasks. The subject of decommunisation is primarily the responsibility of other institutions, e.g. The Institute of National Remembrance, which deals with this issue. After all, the passage of time has made the issue extremely difficult to carry out in such an aspect. In quotes I'm going to say To account for or to be held liable. We had a meeting with German judges, it's always a field for exchanging experiences. The German state solved this problem quickly, definitively and decisively at the beginning of the 1990s. It took six months to a year and ended with a 60% exchange of judges. , and in the criminal level even at the level of 80%. Unfortunately, it seems that this was the task of the legislator acting in previous Sejm and Senate formations. Since legal tools have not appeared for such a long time or even if they have appeared to some extent, they have only been implemented to a small extent... I will remind you that there was a law that provided for the liability of judges who embezzled the principle of independence in the previous period, and on the basis of that law was expelled from the profession 1 judge. And yet I would like to recall some experience that points out what the problem is. even with the settlement of much more serious and obvious cases, it can be said, the crimes of the court. At the conference, which we held this year, concerning the Soldiers of the Cursed, the title of the conference was the historical sources of lack of confidence in the judiciary, Dr. Krajewski of the Institute of National Remembrance recalled that during the period of this uprising after 1945, because he characterized it so, by including in this apparatus repression in a strict sense, the judiciary was handed down 8 thousand death sentences, of which 5 thousand sentences were executed against the soldiers of the underground independence. This is a number greater than the number of sentences handed down on Nazi criminals. And the question is, how many people have been held responsible for these obvious crimes committed at that time? There were various committees that tried to solve the matter in one way or another, but at this stage, even during the conference, it is difficult to get a clear picture of such a historical description. I think that's also an indirect answer to the question. A similar mechanism has worked here on decommunisation, and therefore the expectation from the National Council that it will address this problem now And I don't really know what specific demands are to be put forward, but it's not realistic or actually unrealistic. Yeah, about... In Senator Zdrojewska's speech, there were issues of making money on the side. I declare, I don't make any extra money on the side. I gave you the details. [[This isn't about information.]] Disciplinary proceedings concerning judges, for some, well, crossing the boundaries of political engagement, are, in my opinion, possible to conduct and carry out due to a clear ban on such activities. However, the practical problem is to distinguish what such commitment is and is not. But as far as I know the state of disciplinary proceedings, they are primarily concerned with this proverbial already sausage, drills, flash drives... And there's no way to settle or dissuade by saying that this is the case. As in the case of this judge, who seems to have taken out her pants The same rules of responsibility apply to retired judges, or to the statement that the person was mentally ill or had any problems... Because in the case of drills or flash drives, in particular these flash drives, we had to deal with the so-called. acting jointly, acting by a judge of the appeal level in agreement with his spouse. A few times... So here, the strictly criminal aspect is obvious. But the fact that there was even a need to reform disciplinary justice and give it such a more effective character is due to the well-known senators, such as the exemplification of how this system worked before... We had a judge in Żyrardov's case, which he spoke about. And he acquitted that judge. The Supreme Court. It was 50 PLN at the gas station. I will not comment on this decision, I will just say what is the reception of this phenomenon in the following relationship. When they arrive... when there are meetings with judges from abroad and there is a discussion going on, most often with such a sound that there are repressions here, that there are disciplinary proceedings against judges, etc., etc., etc. When they get to know this video, all discussions are over. This is something for our guests just completely inexplicable, incomprehensible, inexplicable. In the meantime, it's about the Supreme Court judgment, the final court. Well, in this state of fact... You remember that, don't you? Senator Shark pointed out the flaws of this solution, which is that the judges to the National Council are elected not by the judges, but by the Sejm. I'm just going to say the word again: the point is that sovereign power is exercised by the nation according to, as I recall correctly, art. Four constitutions. This nation is represented by the Sejm. The election of judges to the National Council by the Sejm ensures democratic judicial control. I will remind you of the Constitution that we are so proud of, which you once reminded Dr. Żurawski a.k.a. Grajewski: in the Constitution on 3 May, the provisions concerning the selection of judges were based on the fact that they were elected by the Earth Seyms. And that's the solution we're proud of. And it seems that at that time this was the advantage of division of power, division and cooperation. Senator Zientarski pointed out that we on the resolution of the previous council, which defended judges, the principles of independence and independence of the judiciary... This is my report on 2018, so I do not have such detailed data. But I remember from the information I presented last year, that those resolutions that were then adopted by the National Council of Courts, not so much. In my view, they defended the judges as much as they testified any change. There was a whole list of opinions that simply challenged all practical solutions regarding disciplinary justice, the Supreme Court, the National Judicial Council or the Public Prosecutor's Office. There was also the argument that judges who do not consider us to be KRS and who do not participate in these nomination procedures resign from promotion. There are those who quit, but there are those who don't quit. If more than 2 000 candidates have so far participated in these nomination procedures, of which the vast majority are judges, the argument that the scale of the contest is high is difficult to accept. I don't even notice her. 'Cause, you know, like... Even now in the competition, the Warsaw one, concerning Warsaw courts, where there are 120 or 130 posts to fill, and the candidates are probably 380, there is no... And this competition at the court stage, before being handed over to the National Council, has been going on for about a year, and certainly 8 or 10 months. At any time, the candidate may withdraw, but we do not see such a thing, despite those resolutions which oblige the presidents not to pass the file or not to run these procedures. Nobody's backing out. There is no statement of withdrawal from this competition. It's hard for me to... There was a word here, as if summing up our functioning, as if it were useless. Well, I have the impression that Senator Zientarski wasn't present during the first part of my speech. It may have actually been boring because it was all about giving different kinds of numbers. Let me remind you that to date, we have reviewed over 700 candidates, and 300 of them have been nominated by the President. Therefore, the claim that our work is useless is not reflected in this information. As for the Supreme Court... Senator Pociej spoke about the fact that the proceedings in the Supreme Court were prolonged, but the solutions which were intended to give these proceedings in the Supreme Court some performance features were questioned. Extension of the age of judgment, i.e. The preservation of the age of 70 years means that... As we have been familiar with various kinds of documents for the purpose of the President's opinion of extending the possibility of Supreme Court judges ruling, it turns out that most of these judges are either on sick leave or taking leave and simply their professional activity is much less than the activity of younger people, which seems to be an assessment or a reasonable expectation. Judging from these words, I don't know, recognition, at least on one side... I understand that these explanations as to whether additional information is sufficient for the High House, and I would like to thank you. [[Applause]] [[Don't be ridiculous.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u81	I would like to thank Mr Leszek Mazur, President of the National Judicial Council, for providing the Senate with information. I state that the Senate took note of the activities of the National Judicial Council in 2018. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to supplement the agenda with a point: amendment of the law on the support of borrowers in financial difficulties who have taken up a housing loan and some other laws and consider this item as item of the last agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. Is there an objection? [[Voice from the room: No.]] In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-seven of the agenda: the law amending the law on the support of borrowers in financial difficulties who have taken up a housing loan and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No. 1219 and the report of the committee In print No 1219 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u82	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At its meeting this morning, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance considered a law amending the law on the support of borrowers in financial difficulties who have taken up a housing loan and some other laws; Senate print No 1219. The Commission, following an in-depth examination of the law and an excellent discussion with all stakeholders, recommends that the Senate adopt this law without amendments. Using the presence of Minister Fly, who represents the applicant for this bill, I would remind you that you were the President of the Republic of Poland I will limit my speech only to the description of the work of the committee, and I will leave the bill to the Minister, who has done this excellently at our committee meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, during the committee meeting, amendments were proposed by the Polish Bank Association and the Bank Stop of Immortality Association. These amendments were discussed by the applicants and assessed by the Legislative Bureau, as well as by the government representative and the Minister representing the President's Registry. The proposals for amendments submitted by the Polish Bank Association were generally aimed at reducing the burden on the banking sector with payments to the Creditors Support Fund. On the other hand, the proposed amendment of the Bank Immortality Association extended the scope of this fund. Finally, after hearing the discussion, the committee decided not to amend the legislation adopted. In addition, during the meeting on the basis of the information provided by the representative of the Bank Immortality Association, the committee decided to ask the Financial Supervision Commission to provide information on the measures taken to prevent banks from applying abusive clauses in economic trade. So much for the committee report. Of course, I'm at your disposal, senators.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u83	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Jackowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question, a question that, in public space, sort of hangs in the air. This is a certain change in the philosophy of this law, and some dissatisfaction of the Frankivists' environment with those changes which were made in the last phase of the Parliament's work on this law. Could you please ask the senator for a broader comment on this? Was there even a discussion on this subject? [[Yes.]] And then I'm gonna ask you a second question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u85	Yes. Thank you so much for that question. Indeed, there was not only a discussion, but we received letters from the Bank Immortality Association, also from the francs organization. These organizations did not hide their disappointment in the shape of the law adopted by the Sejm, but I think In fact, I think that was the opinion of all the members of the committee. This is due to misguided expectations, I would say. The question of the solution... This law is not a law that solves the problem of these unfair abusive loans offered in foreign currencies, mainly in francs. This problem is solved by the Polish State on a judicial basis. There are already good Supreme Court judgments. We were informed by a representative of the Ministry of Justice about the number of trials, gave specific numbers of cases pending before the courts and said about the dynamics of these trials, about the fact that the number of lawsuits is rapidly increasing. The fact that you can win and that the Supreme Court's position has changed over the last few years is a great incentive for the so-called. franchises to bring actions to the banks. And this is the right way, the right way. There is no need for legal intervention when cases are settled in courts. This law is a law that talks about helping pay off housing loans to all borrowers, not only those who have indexed liabilities, nominated in currencies, but also those who have borrowed zloty loans. The Act creates a permanent fund mechanism. It's supposed to be a permanent legal institution. Not as in the case of the previous law, where the temporary institution was It will help people who get into trouble by paying their mortgage liabilities. Undoubtedly, there is help in this law for those who are temporarily in difficulty. This aid will be offered through the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego with the funds of the Fund, which will consist of banks. Thus, this will work without the use of State resources. It's a good mechanism. We would like to thank the President for preparing this bill, although the expectations of the franchise were that we would solve the problem of abusive credit agreements. This is not the right path. Rather, we should work on facilitating or speeding up judicial settlement so that everyone, as he individually borrowed his own justice. There may have been a misunderstanding about this bill, but happily, as I said, the issues of solving Frank's problems are settled in the courts. Of course, there is also waiting for the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the announcement of which was presented by the Ombudsman to the Court of Justice. If the verdict is in line with the announcement, the French will receive huge support not only from Polish courts.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u86	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Robert Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u87	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, what is the difference between franc credits taken by people who can't pay them back today and gold credits? What's different is that people who have invested in Amber Gold, people who have invested in cryptovaluty... Yesterday another stock market was closed, and apparently people lost 120 million zlotys. Isn't it that at some point Poland, the parliament or the president must be responsible for sometimes naivety and sometimes too hasty approach to money issues?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u88	That's a very good point. It shows and allows us to understand the differences in the worldview that divide us. You can say that... Imagine that not so long ago in Australia it was thought that there was no need to have or operate a guarantee system for deposits, because depositing money in a bank is a private risk to whoever is doing this. That's the way it used to be. Nevertheless, civilization has developed and one of the achievements of civilization is the belief that the state is supposed to protect the weaker side. So that's why taxpayers choose their government to protect them from the violence of large corporations, which is a global phenomenon, increasing, and it comes from the very essence of these big corporations, because they always seek to monopoly and maximize profits. So, the history of franc credits, and it is good that this is what we are talking about in this House... Let me remind you that, in our previous term here in the Senate, we had a day-long debate on the issue of franc credits. During this debate, we revealed fundamental things at the time. First of all, there were no francs. Secondly, clauses were included in contracts with the awareness that they would be harmful to consumers, that they would have a harmful effect. Thirdly, finally, the Polish state saw and did not react. That's when we heard it from the head of the Financial Supervision Committee at the time. In addition, I invite you to read the recently published report of the Supreme Audit Chamber, which was prepared at the request of my committee - we have made such a request - which shows how idle the Polish state was on the so-called case. Franc loans. It was... [[But who passed the bill?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] You ask the question, Kazimierz Dear, I'll answer it. So... [[To falsify...]] So this law, as I said, does not solve the problem of franc credits - this solution is on a different path - but it supports all those who... create a support mechanism for all those who have difficulty in regulating their housing credit obligations. And that's a very good solution, that's a very good solution. I took the liberty of making such a wide digression, because I have just noticed that we can at this moment show this difference in the worldview. Right? I am convinced that the state can and should stand by the weaker and protect the interests of consumers.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u89	Thank you. You're asking Senator Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I would ask you to elaborate on these court proceedings, because I don't know if there's a representative of the Ministry of Justice today and whether he's going to comment on it. If you would at least like to tell us how many such cases are currently pending before the courts, whether any have already ended in an effective way, i.e. in favour of the franchise with a final ruling, and if there is any statistics indicating the length of such proceedings, we know that this is of course an important factor in this whole case... So that there's a comment I'd like to ask the senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u91	Thank you very much. We received detailed information at the committee meeting on the number of processes currently underway. Unfortunately, it's not in my notes. Well, that's thousands. I don't know if anyone's... Maybe the minister remembers that number. Do you remember that number? These are thousands of cases. Maybe my co-workers from the budget committee, who are probably watching our debate, will deliver me these numbers because they were in... [[Fifty thousand cases, different.]] 50,000 − Senator Klein remembered this number. [[All in all, different.]] I've always tried to be precise, that's why it's my speech... As far as final decisions are concerned, there is a rapidly increasing number of final judgments already favourable to the franchise. There are 2 very important judgments of the Supreme Court in which it was considered that abusive clauses should be deleted, rusted out of the contract, which means that in the case of loans indexed to franc, the indexing mechanism is removed and the repayment obligation will be as much as the zlotys took place on the date of payment of the loan. This is a fundamental matter. However, the Supreme Court left interest rates as they were accepted in the contract. As this is not an abusive clause, the holders of these franc loans had indeed a very attractive service. But I think they deserve this compensation for the years of suffering they've suffered.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u92	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Blackbay a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u93	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! You've said a lot here, not just about the bill, but a little bit wider. And very nice. Could you tell the senator what was the largest number of franc credits in the years, and what was the recommendation of the KNF in these years? Do you know her? And if you don't, I'll talk about it in the debate.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u94	Yes. I obviously know that KNF then ♪ Then I'm gonna... She didn't recommend franc credits. It's... [[When?]] The largest number of loans so called francs were granted during the 2007-2009 period. [[No, it ended in 2008... but good.]] Well... [[So on average, on average...]] At that time, there was an economic boom, a housing boom, funded by loans in that currency. [[Yes.]] [[In the days of the first piss.]] Yes. Then, unfortunately... My comment on the debate that we had here, in the Senate, probably in 2012, in relation to the opinion or information on the activities of the Financial Supervision Commission presented by the then president concerned the lack of effective action by the Financial Supervision Commission in relation to the applicable abusive clauses. That's what this was about.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u95	Thank you very much. I don't see any more requests for questions. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the president. Mr Paweł Mucha, Deputy Head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, was authorised to present the President's position during parliamentary work. Would the President's representative like to take the floor on the bill under consideration and present the President's position? [[Deputy Head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Paweł Mucha: Yes.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u96	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! As the President has discussed this issue very well and extensively in the report, I will limit myself to identifying the main elements as regards the substance of the law. Because the discussion, which has been going on for two years, has been conducted very widely in the course of parliamentary work. Today we also debated this at the committee meeting. As the title of the proposed law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland states, we are talking about a law which concerns the support of borrowers in financial difficulties who have taken up a housing loan. The law, as well as it is rightly indicated here, refers both to those borrowers who have gold loans and to those who have indexed or denominated loans to foreign currencies. If someone meets the criteria for receiving support, they can apply for this support, regardless of whether this loan is being applied to a foreign currency or will be a gold loan. The criteria for granting this aid have been greatly extended because, on the one hand, the definition has been amended as regards the housing loan On the other hand, the criteria have been liberalised in such a way that aid can be applied for by those persons for whom the value of the rate of return is 50%. We are talking about the ratio of the borrower's expenses related to the maintenance of the monthly installment and the interest rate of the housing loan to the monthly income of the borrower's household. This change is a change from the current legal solution, the current legal situation, by 10 percentage points. The threshold, which is currently in the bill, is 60%. Secondly, the Act introduces a double increase in the amount of income resulting from the Social Assistance Act per family member or per single person. It will be possible to receive support if the monthly household income, less the monthly cost of servicing the housing loan, does not exceed those amounts. We're increasing it twice, so this solution is a very important change. Next: the bill maintains whether this condition for the use of support, which is the status of unemployed in the case of the borrower. Scope of assistance. This aid, which according to the current legal condition covered aid for 18 months in the amount of PLN 1 thousand 500... This aid can be granted for 36 months in the amount of PLN 2 000. We're talking about paying off the entire installment. Yes? So if the installment is over PLN 2,000, then up to PLN 2,000 a month for three years... So we're gonna have a situation here that this backup can reach. After multiplying the amount of PLN 72 thousand. It must be made very clear that there is also a new legal institution, which is a loan to repay the debt. This is the case: if the borrower makes a dramatic decision to dispose of the property on which the collateral is provided, that is, the property he purchased from the residential loan, but it is not enough to pay off the entire liability, to be released from the debt, it will be possible to obtain support under such a loan. We have clear support for 3 years followed by a 2-year withdrawal period. In fact, we have this situation: since such a crisis occurred in the borrower or within this household, we have five years to bring about a situation in which repayment takes place, with this repayment occurring over a period of 12 years. These amounts are interest-free, i.e. the aid granted within 3 years will be reimbursed within 12 years without any interest and yet with such a mechanism, which assumes that if this payment is made on time by 100 instalments, the last 44 instalments will be automatically decommitted. Well, there are no such conditions anywhere, such assistance or support. In addition, this mechanism also provides for the possibility to obtain, in exceptional circumstances, support over this automatic remission. That's the kind of possibility. And finally, there was an appeal mode. If the borrower requests... Let's just say I'm having trouble paying off the loan with the house credit service, so I'm applying for the support provided by this law. The provision explicitly states that a credit or loan contract cannot be terminated during the examination of the application. Moreover, if the bank, despite the fact that I am fulfilling the conditions, did not make a positive decision, it is possible to appeal to the fund board. If the fund board finds that the person in question is eligible for this assistance, then such a borrower... The burden of the cancellation fee is transferred to the bank and the borrower will still receive support from the bank that corresponds to the amount It can be said that by reflecting those provisions, it would have received support if it had not been for the delay associated with this appeal procedure. We are so convinced that these are solutions that are absolutely desirable today are needed. Within the scope of the Creditor Support Fund we have an aggregate of over PLN 600 million. This is money that can be used just to help those borrowers who are in financial difficulties. Because of the very narrow understanding of the housing loan and the very strict criteria for the possibility to benefit from such contracts so far, nine hundred and several have been concluded. Within these more than 900 contracts, we have a division. This can be said on the basis of data from Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, about half in half, i.e. Half of those who have applied for this assistance are borrowers who have gold loans and half are those who have it in foreign currencies. We are aware that this interest took place primarily after the entry into force of the law, then a very large number of these proposals were compound And today it's very small. This is an introduction, as President Grzegorz Bierecki rightly said here, such a legal solution, which is of course needed here and now. 'Cause we're talking about the support of everyone who's waiting for this help today. But it will also be a permanent element of the system and it will be able to help all borrowers. When we talk about housing credit, mortgage credit, you are aware that this perspective is decades old. This may be the case, that those who have received credit at a given time have some sort of transitional situation. These may be family, personal, health, other issues, it may be the loss of their jobs and they will need such support. And before the loan is terminated, he will have the opportunity to apply for this support, to benefit from this support, and then to repay it in a very long time. They'll be interest-free, partially decommitted. So I absolutely point to the relevance of these solutions. I would like to say that during the vote in the Sejm, which is also the subject of our satisfaction, the votes for the bill were 240. Only five votes against and 169 abstentions. The votes of support were votes of Members representing the PO-KO club, for which I would like to thank, and of course, mostly, votes of Members of Law and Justice. But it wasn't a division, I'd say, political strict. We've managed to do it. The Commission, as Mr President said, with 5 votes against and no abstentions. She supported this law. ♪ It's come ♪ Maybe I'm anticipating these issues. Many votes in the course of discussions on ongoing court proceedings. It is important to stress very clearly: the law does not hinder anyone, it does not close anybody's judicial path. What Mr President was also talking about here is a thing that is clearly perceived by us. There is no agreement for banks to apply abusive clauses; there is no agreement for such clauses in contracts which are entered in the register of prohibited clauses. This is today the field of activity of the authorities of the state which intervene and speak in this matter. I am talking here about the activities of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, I am talking about the financial spokesman, I am talking about what is happening in the area of authorities, also supervision. Today, the committee sent a request to KNF to monitor it on a regular basis. The law is a support tool, and when it comes to abusive clauses, we stress very much The President's office organized a meeting in this area. This type of action, which is not permitted, which is incompatible with European law and national law, must be completely eliminated. And that is also what we call on all parties to do when it comes to relations in the area of credit agreements. As for the issues relating to the European theme, of course, it is that we monitor what is happening when it comes to action. There was an inquiry as to whether an application concerning the settlement of the question referred for a preliminary ruling by the District Court in Warsaw. The proceedings are pending before the Court of Justice of the European Union. The Advocate General's Opinion has already been formulated in the course of that procedure. The Advocate General's Opinion is absolutely in a pro-consumer spirit with reference to Directive 93/13. The decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union can also be expected in the near future. The voices that appear when it comes to public debate... This law was commonly called the Franc Act. It is a law on the support of borrowers and, of course, also applies to those who have loans to foreign currencies. I would consciously highlight the signs of support and the social element. This is support for all borrowers who have a difficult situation, regardless of whether they have gold credits, whether they have loans made, indexed, denominated in Swiss franc, as well as to the euro, up to a pound, up to a dollar. That's the thing you need. As far as pro-consumer activities at the President's Office are concerned, they don't end. There were also questions in the public debate, whether it means that the President's Office is obstructing all work. Work that is conditional on the content of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland never ends. We have simply entered into the constitution that the Polish state protects the consumer as a weaker party, especially in the collision with the huge corporation, which is a bank, which has the expertise of lawyers, economists, all employees of this institution. And on the one hand, we are aware of those decisions that took place in the course of the proceedings, the procedure of this law, because here came the proposal to change and we have deleted the conversion fund... But I would like to say yes: the conversion itself as such is always possible, of course, or the cancellation of the credit. Whether at the client's request or if the bank comes up with an initiative, these solutions are possible. We are also, as I said, on the eve of decisions concerning European case-law, a line that benefits borrowers in terms of judicial case law, I am talking about the Polish Supreme Court, and also about the Supreme Court. We conduct pro-consumer activities. I would like to remind you that it was not too long ago that I had the privilege of representing the President on the draft law on the amendment of the Civil Code when, with the support of the Sejm and the Senate, we removed the exception to the ban on anatolysm, which means that we have eliminated the possibility of demanding interest on late interest by a credit institution only because it is a credit institution. The bank could claim interest on interest because it's a bank. There was a provision in the Civil Code, which had been in operation since 1965, which was still based on the conditions of the previous system. The state in the High Senate also supported this solution to cross it out. And it can be said that different solutions can also be discussed in the future. We are aware of the postulates that appear, e.g. a solution such as keys For debt. This is also seen in the public debate as such a solution. It is that we transfer the risk to the banks when it comes to estimating the value of the property so that the borrower can release himself from the debt on the basis that if he is unable to handle this loan, he says: well, I want to give up this contract, I return the property, and please release me from the debt. So that there wouldn't be situations that happen when we pay off the loan, it was in situations where the loan was transferred to a foreign currency. After many years of repayment, the value of the property is lower than the value of the loan. And many actions are taken by the Polish state today to order these matters. Thus, by presenting the Presidential High Senate with the initiative of President Andrzej Duda to amend the law on the support of borrowers in financial difficulties, I allow myself to ask the High House to support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u97	Thank you, Minister. I'm sure there'll be questions. Senator Jackowski came in first.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question... I'd get to the bottom of it. Let's call it a court case. As far as I know, the lawsuit must, it seems, be filed at the place competent for the seat of the bank or the financial institution in which such an agreement was concluded. Isn't that a restriction? E.g. The client lives in a very remote place... Moreover, it would mostly go to Warsaw courts, I no longer know which district, etc. In any case, this could result in some extension of the examination of these cases. In your opinion, And the President has been raising this problem for four years now, very effectively, and thank you very much for that. It would be appropriate, e.g. to introduce such a statutory regulation that would allow the circle of courts competent to deal with such cases to be extended to a court competent on the grounds of the applicant's habitual residence? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u99	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u100	Mr Senator, of course, there is a discussion about the local characteristics and the problem of the recognition of cases, which relate in particular to indexed loans denominated in foreign currencies, also in the framework of the work of the Ministry of Justice. Here, there are also arguments concerning having special knowledge or some experience as regards judging in cases where there is a need on the one hand to take account of European law, on the other hand to check the register of prohibited clauses. Because it's supposed to be called. Obviously, the court is aware that the clause in question is a clause entered in the register by law. But unfortunately there are such cases, they are also signalled to us that the court does not take into account that I should say, in the course of the ruling. Moreover, various judgments have been passed since such trials occurred. As I'm saying, today this line of case law is clearing up. And I wouldn't rule out... I don't want to go into the realm of the Ministry of Justice. We discussed today at the committee meeting how many cases there are at the stage of an instance. According to my memory, there were several hundred, about 700 decisions regarding the district court, at the level of the first instance. There were also cases in the district court, of course, as both a secondary court and a court of first instance. Those were over 1,000 cases. There were also decisions at the level of appeals courts. There's no question about it. In particular, if it were found that the decision we are talking about in a case pending before the EUSF is beneficial for consumers, which could lead to increased activity as regards potential reasons, there would be more cases, actions that would be directed We should go back to such a discussion because we still have the principle of actor sequitur forum rei derived from Roman law, i.e. that the local jurisdiction is determined by the place of residence, the seat of the defendant. When it comes to contractual property, it can be different... There are rules in the Code of Civil Procedure that govern this. But a global reflection "Thank you for this question,'I think it would be necessary if we could expect an increased number of cases to have the impact of new cases. It is not possible to prejudice the decision of the TEU, but experience teaches that in a very large number of cases Not to say: in the vast majority It is in accordance with the opinion of the Advocate General and here the Advocate General has spoken in a very pro-consumer spirit. Well, we've got a situation like this... I stress this very much, the President's Office has organised a number of meetings in this area. Of course, if we are faced with objective unlawfulness, we must always refer to the law in question. If there is a crime involved in the conclusion of a contract, there is a proper way to report a suspected crime. We know that such criminal proceedings are taking place and certain circumstances are explained there. There's a lot of criminal proceedings going on. If we are talking about consumer legislation, then abusive clauses should be completely eliminated from our legal turnover precisely because they constitute abuse of the law, are illegal and with the values that we accept the right to express. The last context is what needs to be said, correcting any false comments or media statements that may appear here. This bill doesn't stop anything in any way. Moreover, Poles need to be encouraged all the time that they should, if they are in doubt, report to the district consumer spokesperson, apply to lawyers. The result of the change of law, which was supported by the High Senate, is that since 1 January 2019 we have free legal services throughout Poland. I'm sure you know that. I have a request to pass on this knowledge to voters, to say that as a result of the amendment of the law on free legal assistance in each Polish district from Monday to Friday for at least 4 hours a day should be available lawyer, lawyer, lawyer on call. It is sufficient to make a statement that it is not possible to pay the costs in terms of legal aid. We need to analyze, check, verify, and what is the basis To go to court. I hope the Senate will support this bill. These are matters that, of course, correspond with each other. Here we are talking about the issue of support, and here we are talking about specific problems on the basis of a specific agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u101	Senator Jackowski will ask.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would just like to ask, by developing my question about the applicant's place of residence. Wouldn't the introduction of such a regulation... This would involve costs for the banking side or the financial institution. I'm talking about sending a legal representative to court all over the country. Wouldn't that speed up the collective settlement process, which could be of some benefit to both sides? That would also be part of the solution to this problem. [[I'd just like to be president...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u103	Mr. Bierecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u104	I'm still in mode... I'm taking advantage of the president's privilege. I would like to convey information that I did not have by reporting, i.e. information on the number of cases currently in the courts. Thus, in 2019, in the first half of the year, 2.5 thousand cases were brought before the district courts, 1 thousand 700 cases. By comparison, in the whole year 2018, there were 4,000 cases in the district courts, in the area of 3,000 cases. The 50,000 you mentioned to Senator Klein, these are ongoing bank contract cases on all banking issues. These smaller figures that I have reported relate to loans denominated in foreign currencies.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u105	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u106	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Of course, I think it's a good thing that there's a bill that will help people who are in a difficult situation in the first place. I will personally vote in favour of this law. But I have a question: Minister, why is that all? Mr. President in the election campaign said what he said. I think this is generally known, that is, there is no problem with the contracts being, so to speak, converted at the date of conclusion of the contract. Please tell me why you are acting so modestly instead of immediately, with great momentum, to sort out the problem of currency loans.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u107	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u108	Let me remind you that when we faced such a breakdown of course, the term of the PO-PSL governments was still in place. And I will also remind you that this law, which we are modifying today, was adopted, in such an electoral context, even by the Civic Platform, this was the original law that is being amended today. At that time, the Civic Platform politicians had various statements on the solution to the problem that came out in January. This ended with a law adopted in October on such very strict, narrow criteria for the provision of support. The President's law firm took the initiative three times. In the first place, we were dealing with the so-called proposal. You can remember this from the fair course. Or a fair course. There was a debate around it and there were certain conditions at the time of the referral of this project. There was no will of the parliamentary majority at the time to process such a project. Two more projects have been submitted to the Sejm by your President. One was a so-called project. the spread law, i.e. The project that is underway is in the Committee on Public Finance. I have no control over the speed of Parliament's work. This is a project that was sent there in 2016. According to my memory, around 1 August will be 3 years from then. As regards matters relating to this current law, this law was notified I'm talking about the presidential initiative. In August 2017, 2 years ago. We are dealing with certain conditions, but of course the President is referring to the protection of consumers' interests. We report many such projects. In addition, the issue raised in the course of the public debate is the question of referring to the condition of the banking sector as, you can say, the spine on which the whole economic system is built. And here we're dealing with this situation... It is not a secret that there are banks that are in a certain situation today, and that there are recovery plans in certain entities, including capital-related ones, which have provided very large-scale indexed loans denominated in foreign currency. We are dealing with the guardianship of the Banking Guarantee Fund in a specific case or in certain cases. Well, there's no abstraction from all this. The Seym also appeared, Mr Senator, a draft law which assumed the costs which the Financial Supervision Commission estimated for the banking sector at PLN 50 billion. Well, to compare, the whole great social program, which is widely supported by Poles, or the 500+ family, is probably 40 billion zlotys. I'm not precise here, but I'm talking about scale, a government of greatness. So you could say this: we provide support. Thank you for this vote of support for this declaration of vote. I hope that this will be common in this House, and thank you for that. However, the President of the Republic of Poland must refer to the conditions concerning the public interest, the condition of the Polish economy. These economic and economic conditions can change. This initiative, which was originally submitted or discussed, was closest to what the senator is talking about, but waiting for the president's representative to answer the question of why legislative work lasts for years... This is the competence of representatives of the nation, Members of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, including the Senate. And you could say this: if there were simple solutions today, the Civic Platform Club would report such solutions, bring projects on some immediate solutions. Well, we're aware that matter is very sensitive, and we're acting prudently here. But I stress very strongly that we are open to all initiatives Whether it's the initiatives of the Civic Platform Club or social initiatives. We will accept any substantive proposals to amend the law to support consumers, borrowers, assuming that from the point of view of the moment in which we are, these are acceptable solutions. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u109	Are there any more questions? Mr. Senator Borowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u110	Minister, you have been answering this question for a very long time by Senator Czarnobaj, perhaps because Senator Czarnobaj has slightly tangled it. And you can ask them straightaway. Mr President in the election campaign made it clear that there are no slightest obstacles to converting these credits from the date of the agreement. No such law has appeared, the President has not made such a law. He has made other laws. I have the impression that the President of the French has deceived you. [[Deputy Head of the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland Paweł Mucha: Infallible.]] That's the wrong impression? [[Deputy Head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Paweł Mucha: Yes.]] I see. I'm sure you can justify that, and if you were able to tell me briefly why, it would be even better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u111	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u112	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I also refer to the fact that the laws in this regard have been consulted with all entities within the Financial Stability Committee. They were prepared in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and there is also a government representation in this area, the minister listens to our discussion. They were consulted with the National Bank of Poland, they were consulted with the Financial Supervision Commission and with the Bank Guarantee Fund. The original solution, which was presented by the President's Chancellery, which was discussed at the beginning of 2016, then my predecessor, Mr Maciej Łopiński, as you may recall, conducted this debate, during which specific assumptions were presented, also together with the National Bank of Poland, was constantly reviewed by all these entities in view of the changing economic situation, with economic conditions. As I said, this original project, the design of this fair or just course, had no chance of success in the Seym. And now we could answer this question in one sentence: Mr President made such a proposal, but she did not have the support of the parliamentary majority. We are aware of the division of the powers which are conferred on the High House, the Sejm, the Senate, the legislative authority. Well, you didn't adopt a law like that, you didn't pass a law like that. And today we are proposing solutions that are presented from the perspective of the support of borrowers. I hope that you too, Marshal of this bill in the submitted form, will support it. And, as I say, we are aware of the changing circumstances as regards the economic, economic situation. Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u113	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u114	Exactly, I asked for such a short statement, and it almost worked out for the Minister, but your answer shows that the president in the campaign could say all kinds of foolishness and then explain that the Sejm does not want to implement these stupidities. Well, that's what it looks like. Or am I wrong? [[He's wrong...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u115	You're wrong about the marshal. [[Oh, I'm wrong.]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u116	Are there any further questions for the Minister? No questions. Thank you, Minister. [[Deputy Head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Paweł Mucha: Thank you very much.]] The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Would Minister Leszek Skiba like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Leszek Skiba: No, thank you.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit a request to the representative of the government relating to the item on the agenda. Are there any such questions? No one's checking in. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. [[Kleina.]] Senator Klein will be the first to speak. There you go. [[Didn't you two get along?]] [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no. I'm the only one who's going to the bathroom.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u117	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Briefly.]] I would like to say very briefly about this. We could say this: we are glad that finally after 4 years the government, the President's Office and the majority of the Sejm are working on the bill that we adopted in autumn 2015. It was a law aimed at helping borrowers who took loans in foreign currencies and Polish zlotys. The year 2015 was from the point of view of borrowers so-called. It's a very difficult year for the franchise. In January 2015, the Swiss bank removed the security from the franc and released its course and this caused major problems for borrowers who held loans denominated in Swiss francs. We remember that time, there were great emotions, then they were fueled by opposition politicians. The presidential candidate, Mr President, said that they would introduce the very principle that you mentioned by Marshal Senator Borowski, so that there is no problem at all with French loans and that it can be handled perfectly and easily. We are in the Senate in the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance At the time, I was her president. They discussed this subject a lot and tried to find a solution, with the support of the Minister of Finance, of course. It wasn't an easy bill, it was a very difficult bill. It was a difficult problem. We have even made 2 attempts to prepare laws, initially referring only to loans denominated in foreign currencies. We finally thought it would be unfair. Because when we looked at the structure of the problems and problems with the loans, it turned out that they did not only concern loans denominated in foreign currencies, in Swiss francs, but also gold loans. And we felt that it was more fair to have a solution that would also apply to zloty loans. I think it's the right thing to do. Of course, the loudest are the situations that are still emerging today and which are being shown, concerning the problems of borrowers with loans in Swiss francs, but the problems also apply to those who have taken loans for gold. And that's where she was. Then our bill. It was autumn 2015, it was true, it was shortly before the election, but this was the calendar of the problem that began to grow, connected with the French loans. And we could handle it. This may not have been the ideal solution, but it has been four years since then, and for these four years the state as a parliamentary majority and also the President have not taken effective action to help those who have loans denominated in foreign currencies. This bill, which we are adopting today, is a good solution, because it is de facto based on our law. Besides, the title of this law itself - this is the law on amending the law... I'd say it's not any quality change, it's de. In fact, a quantitative change - Mr Mucha said about it, that quotas are increasing, i.e. as if more people are allowed to benefit from this law. That's good, because the financial situation of many people today is different than it was in 2015. The minimum wage has increased, the income of the people has increased, so thanks to the amendments you are making, more people will be able to benefit from this law. But here there is no revolution in relation to what was, there is none that, so to speak, to settle the slogans of the 2015 propaganda campaign, four years had to wait only to simply correct that bill and adjust to today's economic and financial reality. So doing great propaganda that we are finally beginning to help the French people is unfair and unfair - and this unfortunately sounded in the Senator's voice, who said how great we are, how bad the former predecessors were. I just want to say this: if we had even looked at the minutes of the Senate's Committee on Budget and Public Finance, on which we discussed this law in 2015, and if we had looked at the results of the votes that were then, then it would have turned out who was against and who was in favour. Today's great defenders of the injured French were shouting loudly, but they didn't support us in anything. Today we simply want to support this law, and our 2015 law, we want to support those changes that you are proposing, but please remember that we need to be based on the truth. The same applies to this unfortunate VAT. When we are e.g. In the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance in the Senate reversed VAT, it was then voted against by the country, colleagues, from PiS, today's great defenders of all these ideal solutions. So truth, truth, and once again truth is the best solution in everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u118	Thank you, Senator. You have a voice, Senator Blackbay. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[You can say...]] [[No, I'll wait...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please, Mr. Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u119	I can't do that. Yeah, but that's okay. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Minister of Finance! I would like to refer not to repeat myself, to this thread that you ended Senator Klein, because in politics, the truth is fundamental. As one of the thinkers once said, and in politics you can be decent and tell the truth. I'd like to bring up a few points, but first I'm going to go back to what I said. Minister, I personally believe that this bill brings good changes and that is why I will vote for it. Well, I'm a little disappointed in that. That's what I asked you. That she doesn't solve all the problems. As you pointed out in the discussion, the problems are, it is worth coming back to them and we will probably come back. These are the notes on this bill. Therefore, if she is helping, as Senator Dowhan asked here, not only people with franchise loans who are in a difficult situation, but even people in a difficult situation... I share the view that the state should protect those who are in difficulty and the most difficult for them to break through banks, corporations and other strong entities. And that is why, Minister, I will vote in favour of this bill. As regards the question of the speech of the chairman of my committee, I would like to say this: it is worth recalling a few things about these loans in francs, because it will probably be like with VAT. I will read the position which one of the bodies formulated in 2006. It stated that it was concerned to accept the recommendations of the Committee on Banking Supervision, the recommendation of S. Recommends restrictions on access to foreign exchange loans, the main effect of which would be to reduce the possibility for citizens, especially young people, to acquire their own apartments. And further: The negative effect of the S-recommendation may be that a significant part of the average earning Poles will not be able to obtain access to credit due to a sharp increase in its costs. The introduction of artificial restrictions on the natural development of the credit market does not serve the Polish economy, and certainly does not serve citizens. Well, always in the service of a citizen. And then, after the change comes into force, there will be further monopolization of the banking services market, and the consequences will be reflected on the customer's pocket. Do you know whose position this is? The Law and Justice Club, which is from 2006. This is a response to the recommendation of the Financial Supervision Commission It is clear that there are risks that should not be taken into account, etc. I will say that Mr Wojciech Kwaśniak, General Inspector of banking supervision, warns here and says that there is no such a country in Europe where such large loans are granted in foreign currencies. And here comes the whole story, showing the threats and warning by the KNF against currency loans. The option which was then in power, the Law and Justice, says: no, Poles, take it, for this is a good thing. It even attacks supervision for restricting the availability of credit. As it is said, Mr. Senator, that was the truth at the time. And it follows, Minister, the election campaign. I asked. I understand you can't answer that. What's the matter with you? After all, then the presidential candidate, and the current President Andrzej Duda, said unambiguously: there is no problem, don't believe it. And almost 1 million people believed that there is no problem that there is no problem with swapping the credit for the day on which the contract was concluded. Those were the declarations. I don't want to ask anymore, as you asked Senator Borowski, if this is cheating. Well, I understand that Mr. President, then the candidate, had no access to the knowledge of the economic situation, so he said what he said. But that's not an explanation, that's a first. Secondly, at that time the socio-economic situation, especially the economic situation, and also the situation of the banks, was much worse than it is today. Therefore, Minister, to say that this is a prolonged work, a lack of political will... Then you shouldn't have said I was going to do it. I'm gonna go, I'm gonna try, I'm gonna see, I'm gonna know the market, if I can... And that's how 1 million people believed it. These people, as they said, voted for president as a candidate, and what came out came out: a law of good that helps people in a difficult situation, but does not solve the problem. And what do we hear? Senator Bierecki says: I am very pleased that people are going to court because this is a good way. Mr. Senator, there's a contradiction here. You say that in difficult situations you have to help Poles, and sending only to court is not special state aid. In this situation, as in many countries, as I read here, the state has been talking about toxic loans that are being granted in a given country, and it should be the role of the state to prepare such projects that will try to solve this problem. Finally, I'd just like to remind you of what Senator Klein was talking about in part. The end of the term of office was intensive work on solving or trying to solve this problem. In the end it was 50:50, so-called. 50:50, when it comes to the cost of currency loans. And then people in various associations said: no, no, 50:50, but it is not enough. Do you, Senator, remember the voices of the Senators of Law and Justice of that time? They came down to this: well, there's not much really, as we get to power, it's definitely going to be solved differently. There it is. Now ask those people who then believed that they could take 40 billion, 50 billion, 60 billion zlotys out of the budget with a light hand, and there are various estimates, and allocate them to solve this problem... So this is a little step we're going to support. And remember, during which period mostly these loans occurred. As a curiosity, there were 8 times more in 2007 than in 2004, in which you... [[And then Morawiecki's prime minister's bank, which he was president, granted the most franchise loans.]] [[Mr. Senator, your...]] I didn't want to bring this up anymore, but it was the senator in his second speech who said that Mr Morawiecki's bank was also very good at providing these loans. [[In the days of the first PiS...]] So that you have, Dear Senators of Law and Justice, the moral right to resolve this problem in a legal manner Because you promised this in the President's election campaign, yes, in the election campaign you said that Poland could afford it. And now that you're saying that we need to look at whether to stand... So either you had no knowledge, or you deliberately misled the Poles to win the election. Like my granddaughter sometimes says to me: and this is, grandpa, right, so am I, Mr. Senator, I can say that's the truth about currency loans. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u120	Thank you. Senator Bierecki's voice is yours.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u121	As they say behind Sienkiewicz, I would have said. I am not in favour of addressing ad personam, so I will only speak ad rem because I have something to say ad rem. Usually those who have nothing to say say say ad personam because they have something to say. Sorry, I gotta get some water, 'cause my throat's a little sore. So a little bit on the margin of this bill, but this discussion came down from talking about the Creditor Support Fund. Because that's what this bill is about, about improving conditions and a very good offer of support for people who may find themselves in trouble when paying off credit, long-term mortgage credit On the issue of franc credits, I must tell you that it is completely false that the Government of Law and Justice has done nothing over the years that the President has done nothing about franc credits. The huge work has been done, and the most important thing that has been done is that the President, the ministers, the offices under the current leadership agree that the franc credits were a fraud and that this is a problem that needs to be solved. Let me remind you that not so long ago the previous authority did not say that, on the contrary, it claimed that everything was legal, legal and that contracts should be kept. This change of position has its repercussions, a change of position which is documented with concrete actions, specific reports. I can exchange for you the report of the NIK, which I mentioned, I can exchange excellent reports of the financial officer, and praise the Ombudsman's office for what he did about these loans. I can finally mention the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, which identifies abusive clauses and wins in court with banks when they protest against adding further clauses to the list of abusive clauses. This is a very concrete action, the great work that has been done, so that this great problem, which concerns almost 1 million people in Poland, more... not 1 million people, because at the committee meeting we were told that there were 1 million credit agreements, and at the moment 450,000 such contracts are active. So that's the scale of the problem. This is huge money, huge income for banks, well, estimated by banks. They say they'll lose $60 billion if they have to... if they lose in court. That's their respect. It's actually a lot of money that can go to wallets of Polish families. This is the money they deserve. In fact, you can say it's their money, these people will get back what they put in. So I am glad that this justice for these people is approaching with great steps, and the key to this change, for these good judgments was just a change of attitude of the Polish state, yes, a change of attitude of the Polish state... or perhaps I will say otherwise, to distinguish between: the change of state administration. Here I would like to draw my previous speaker's attention to the fact that the state also acts through courts. The courts are part of the state, the courts issue judgments on behalf of the Republic of Poland, so it cannot be said that the State does not act in this case. It shall act, in an appropriate manner and through the competent authorities. I used to say that franchise should pray for good judgment. We're getting close to it. If you see these Supreme Court judgments, these last two Supreme Court judgments... I know they were issued by the new Supreme Court judges. I'm not saying it has anything to do with the verdict being that these are the new judges. But I would like to say that this change in state attitudes is also expressed in these judgments. It is expressed in these judgments. During this debate on franc credits, there is an argument that the banking system will collapse when they have to spend 60 billion. This court road I'm talking about is the safest road for banks because it's spreading costs for several years. Banks have over 20 billion pure profits each year for the one they show. 60 billion spread over a few years, probably five years, if you average it, 12 billion a year. Well, okay, no one wants to, no one likes to pay off money, especially the bank owners. But what I want to say is that, after all, they, receiving permission to purchase banks in Poland, had to make declarations, commitments to recapitalisation banks in a situation of capital needs. Well, who do these banks represent, who are the owners of those banks that offered franc credits in Poland? It's German Commerzbank, it's Deutsche Bank, it's also German, as the name suggests, Spanish Santander, Portuguese BCP, Austrian Raiffeisen. At the committee meeting, we had letters from the central banks that protested against State interference in this case. It is not enough, after all, that the embassies of these countries sent a letter in the course of their work, also protesting against our actions. So, these owners still supported by their governments After all, those who have made a commitment to recapitalisation of banks in front of the Polish government will have to fulfil these obligations, if that is the case. But I think they're gonna make it out of those profits... We're not talking about this system flipping, but they're gonna make a little less money. For a while. Or they'll have to give back what they once earned illegally. Poland is the last country in Europe to face this problem. In all the countries where these loans were offered... And in those years, which my previous speakers mentioned, it was a whole wave. These were products invented abroad and offered by foreign banks in all countries where these banks have such services. Something like that, ladies and gentlemen, in the American Wall Street nomenclature. It's called a big sheep haircut. It means that you create a product that I'm going to say is to erase a social group, which is to draw money out of those people who have that money or who are such an aspiring group who may have future income. And these groups are under attack. In many countries there are different ways, such products are invented. And what we're talking about here were pan-European products. The Spanish fell for it, the Austrians fell for it, the Croatians fell for it, many fell for it. Everybody figured it out. Some... Hungarians solved it by means of statutory interventions, paying money out of the budget. The Spanish, as I recall, did it in court. Croatians I think it's the courts, too. The details are in all the reports I've been calling in here. Thus, the fact that the Polish State encourages the judicial way that the position of the authorities has changed, that the franchise wins in the courts, because there are abusive clauses which the Office of Competition and Consumer Protection has entered, is the most important thing that has been done in the last few years. Mr. President has a huge credit, a huge role in the fact that he's made such a big deal out of these franchise people. So that the franchise should be grateful to the President for his position on this matter, for his integrity, because it affected the operation of the entire state apparatus. One last word at a time, one last word. I also want to tell you that I know that it has not been easy for you to prepare this project or these projects to help the French people. I know how the previous head of the Financial Supervision Commission has put the key in this matter, how he has scarcely provided the information needed to assess the impact of the regulation. I would also like to say that we now know that this former head of this KNF is currently working in mBank, which is one of the major lenders of franc credits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u122	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. It informs that the vote on the bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. No messages? No. Adjournment until 5.15 p.m. [[Adjournment from 15 minutes 32 to 17 minutes 16]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u123	I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators, let me remind you that the next eighty-third Senate meeting is scheduled for 31 July and 1 and 2 August 2019. The order of business of this meeting will be provided to you by electronic means. We return to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the signing of the Treaty of Versailles. I would like to remind you that the committee's report on the draft resolution was presented before the adjournment and that a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committee requests the Senate to adopt a uniform draft resolution in print No 1194 S. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution contained in print No 1194 S. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who abstained from voting? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, all voted in favour. [[Voting No 3]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the 100th anniversary of the signing of the Treaty of Versailles. We return to the second agenda: the Act amending the Act on Nursing and Midwives' Competitions. The Health Commission has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 1234 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 4]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Nursing and Midwives' Competitions. We return to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Investment Act for the construction of the Westerplatte Museum and the 1939 Wars branch of the II World War Museum in Gdansk. The meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Culture and Media took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals presented during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject, which is published in print No 1224 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Robert Gawl, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u124	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Joint Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Culture and Media recommend to the Senate the proposals set out in points II, Amendments 1, 3 and 7,17. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u125	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senators of the rapporteur want to take the floor on this matter? As for the possible speeches of the senators, I will tell you who can do this: Mr Senator, Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz, Senator Sławomir Rybicki, Senator Czesław Ryszka and other committee rapporteurs Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, Senator Robert Gawel and Senator Piotr Florek. The senator wants it. You're welcome. Will anyone else want to speak? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u126	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to ask the senators again to reject a law that makes a dangerous precedent. He is forcefully trying to solve a problem that can be solved using existing rules. If the purpose of the bill is to commemorate the heroes, the defenders of Westerplatte, it can be done in cooperation and on the basis of compromise with the local community, with local government. I think this is the right way to solve such important issues as the construction of a museum. This precedent, which means forceful take ownership of the local government... I hope that it will not be a gateway to future disputes between the government, between the parliamentary majority and the local government in this way, that is, forcefully. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u127	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to reject the law, followed by a vote on the amendments tabled. We are voting on the request of minorities of the Committee on Culture and Media, the Committee on Infrastructure and Senator Sławomir Rybicki to reject the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted against, 26 votes against, 58 votes against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 5]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Amendments 1 and 9 should be voted on together. Amendment 1 causes the planned investments in the construction of the Westerplatte Museum and the 1939 Wars branch of the World War II Museum in Gdansk will also include the construction of internal roads and pedestrian routes. In addition, the amendment ensures consistency of the law with the provisions of the Public Roads Act. Amendment 9 is similar in nature. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 6]] Amendments 2, 18 and 19 should be voted on together. Amendment 2 makes it possible to prepare and implement investments in the construction of the Westerplatte Museum and the War of 1939, the Branch of the World War II Museum in Gdansk, with the Minister responsible for cultural and national heritage protection, to operate the organizational committee. Amendments 18 and 19 are a consequence of this. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted against, 25 against, 60 against. [[Voting No 7]] Amendment 3 causes the Pomeranian voivodeship to apply for approval, not the opinion of the Minister for National Defence, before issuing a decision authorising investments in the construction of the Westerplatte Museum and the War of 1939. In addition, the amendment clarifies the size of the inventory map. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted against, 60 against, 25 against. [[Voting No 8]] Amendment 7 corrects the reference as a consequence of the amendments made to Article. 4 of this law. Amendment 13 on Amendments 7 and 13 we are voting together on the same thing. Now Amendments 7 and 13. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted against, 60 against, 25 against. [[Voting No 9]] Amendments 8 and 14 should be voted on together. Amendment 8 clarifies the title of the Real Estate Management Act in order to ensure a correct reference to its provisions, amendment 14 is of the same nature. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 10]] Amendment 10 introduces a regulation setting out the manner in which the parties are informed of the initiation of the procedure and the service of decisions and provisions concerning inter alia. repeal, amendment and renewal of the decision to allow investments in the construction of the Westerplatte Museum and the War of 1939, Branch of the Museum of the Second World War in Gdansk. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 11]] Amendment 11 makes it possible to agree to a change in the decision to allow investments in the construction of the Westerplatte Museum and the 1939 War branch of the Museum of the Second World War in Gdansk only the Minister is entitled. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 12]] Amendment 12 aims to ensure consistency of the law on the authorisation of the removal of trees and shrubs with the provisions of the Nature Conservation Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 13]] Amendment 15 - we move on to it because we have already voted on Amendments 13 and 14 It entitles an investor to dispose of the properties to which it refers, as set out in the provisions of the Act, restrictions on the possibility of using them. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 14]] Amendment 16 clarifies the title of the Law on the Protection of Agricultural and Forestry Lands in order to ensure a correct reference to its provisions. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 15]] Amendment 17 is linguistic in nature. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 16]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. The votes were 84 senators, 58 votes against, 25 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 17]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Investment Act for the construction of the Westerplatte Museum and the 1939 War Branch of the II World War Museum in Gdansk. We are returning to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Commercial Companies Code and certain other laws. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Legislative Commission have presented a draft resolution in which they propose amendments to the Act; Senate printing No 1195 A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendment 1 harmonises the terminology of the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 18]] Amendment 2 clarifies the content of the Company's Shares Agreement for non-monetary contributions. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 19]] Amendment 3 ensures consistency of the dividend law for individual capital companies. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 20]] Amendment 4 corrects the reference, taking into account that the advance on dividends cannot be paid out of share capital. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 21]] Amendment 5 deletes the non-essential provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 22]] Amendment 6 correlates the terminology of the Commercial Companies Code with the Civil Code. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 23]] Amendment 7 harmonises the terminology of the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 24]] Amendment 8 seeks to ensure that the provision on the independent convening of the Supervisory Board and the Board of Directors by a member of the Supervisory Board, a member of the Management Board or a director is unambiguous and communicative. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 25]] Amendment 9 clarifies the provision, indicating that the determination of the Director's suspension only applies for important reasons. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 26]] Amendment 10 is of a technical legislative nature. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 27]] Amendment 11 deletes the part of the provision which is a repetition of another regulation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 28]] Amendment 12 corrects the wrong reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 29]] Amendment 13 inserts the provision in the appropriate place in the structure of the article. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 30]] Amendment 14 harmonises the terminology of the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 31]] Amendment 15 harmonises the terminology of the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 32]] Amendment 16 takes into account in the provision which sets out the effects of the conversion of a capital company into another capital company, in relation to the holders of the company's bonds, that a simple public limited liability company may turn into a public limited liability company and vice versa. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 33]] Amendment 17 correlates the terminology of the Enforcement Act in administration with the Commercial Companies Code and aligns the terminology of the Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 34]] Amendment 18 deletes non-normative terms. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 35]] Amendment 19 deletes the provision which has become unobtrusive following the entry into force of the Law of 16 May 2019 on the amendment of the Law Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 36]] Amendment 20 takes account of the fact that the Law on the Notariat provides for the abbreviation "notariac law'. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 37]] Amendments 21 and 22 should be voted together. They correlate the terminology of the Personal Income Tax Act and the Corporate Income Tax Act with the Commercial Companies Code. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 38]] Amendment 23, last one, harmonises the wording of the same provisions. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, all senators voted yes. [[Voting No 39]] And now we are voting on a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 61 votes against, 23 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 40]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Commercial Companies Code and certain other laws. We are back to discussing item five of the agenda: the law on the system of development institutions. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate print No 1221 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 59 votes against, 23 against and 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 41]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law on the system of development institutions. We return to the examination of item six of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws in order to reduce payment congestion. The meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject; it is published in print No 1229 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Tadeusz Kopcia, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u128	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Today, a joint meeting was held between the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance. The Commission considered the proposals submitted in the course of the debate on the Law amending certain laws in order to reduce payment congestion. The High Senate is ready to accept amendments Nos 1 and 9, 12 and 16, 19 and 21. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On this occasion, I would like to thank you very warmly on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Entrepreneurship and Technology, for working on this law for over a year and a half, especially here in the Senate, at committee meetings during the debate. I would like to thank all employers' organisations for all the warm words on the legislative process which presented the work on this law, which is very important for entrepreneurs in the act on payment congestion, as the ideal and model of the legislative process. This also applies to colleagues from the opposition Civic Platform. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u129	Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? In the course of the discussion, the conclusions were made... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please, because you will not hear who has submitted proposals in the course of the discussion. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj, Senator Kazimierz Kleina and Senator Tadeusz Kopeć, who may be again... Do any of you gentlemen want to speak? No. Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendments 1, 3, 6 should be voted on together. They aim to make with the so-called. relief for bad debts may also have been granted by the creditor who, on the last day of the month preceding the date of the submission of the tax return, will be in the course of restructuring proceedings, insolvency proceedings or liquidation proceedings. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 42]] Amendments 2, 4 and 7 should be voted on together. They aim to ensure that the taxable person benefiting from the so-called. relief for bad debts in subsequent tax years was required to show in the tax return the claims with which the relief is linked. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 43]] Amendment 5 correlates the element of the calculation with the introduction into the calculation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 83 for, 2 against. [[Voting No 44]] Amendment 8 harmonises the terminology of the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 45]] Amendment 9 complements the reference, taking into account that the provisions should also refer to the calculation of the payment deadlines to be applied in the event of a breach of the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 46]] Amendments 10 and 11 should be voted on together. They amend the compensation rates for recovery costs and the monetary value thresholds on which individual rates depend and eliminate the limitation of the marketability of the right to compensation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 26 for, 59 against. [[Voting No 47]] Amendment 12 takes into account that the amended law defines the concept of "public entity." Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 Senators voted, 82 for, 2 against. [[Voting No 48]] Amendment 13 adapts the content of the provision relating to the provision to which reference is made. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 49]] Amendment 14 clarifies that the information obligation and the competence of the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection referred to in the footnote will only be possible in the course of the proceedings. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 50]] Amendment 15 corrects the wrong reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 51]] Amendment 16 ensures terminology consistency within the Article. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 52]] Amendments 17, 18 and 20 should be voted together. They reduce the maximum penalty that the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection will be able to impose, reduce the amount of discounts in the amount of the penalty, and modify the grounds for imposing the penalty and applying the reduction. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 26 for, 59 against. [[Voting No 53]] Amendment 19 seeks to ensure that the beginning of the period for the fulfilment of the money provision as a condition for the exercise of the right to reduce the penalty by the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection is the date of service to the party of the order initiating the procedure rather than the date of initiation of the procedure. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 54]] Amendment 20 has already been voted out. We are now voting on Amendment 21. It harmonises the terminology of the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 55]] Amendment 22 reduces the time limit for repayment of the penalty paid from 30 to 10 days in the event of the annulment or annulment of the decision imposing the penalty or the amendment of that decision consisting in a reduction in the amount of the penalty and modifies the rules for applying for reimbursement. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted against, 25 against, 59 against. [[Voting No 56]] We are now voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 60 votes against, no one opposed, 25 abstentions. [[Voting No 57]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending certain laws in order to reduce payment congestion. We return to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the law on the regulation of certain matters in connection with the appearance of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community on the basis of an agreement. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union presented a draft resolution requesting amendments to the Act; Senate printing No 1202 A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendment 1 aims to ensure that the title of the Act contains precise and unambiguous information on what matters are dealt with therein. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 58]] Amendments 2 and 3 will be voted together. They aim to eliminate a provision that suggests that the Law regulates issues other than confirmation that during the transitional period the United Kingdom is to be treated as a Member State in the European Union. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 59]] Amendment 4 deletes the provision which may mislead the addressees of the Act as to the duration of the Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 60]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 61]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law on the regulation of certain matters following the appearance of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community on the basis of an agreement. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on statutory auditors, audit firms and public oversight and some other laws. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter; it is in print No 1227 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u130	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission recommends that the Senate adopt amendments 1
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u131	Thank you very much, Senator. Do you, as an applicant, wish to speak? [[Thank you.]] No. Good. Then we shall proceed to the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment 1 complements the guidelines in the authorising provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 62]] Amendment 2 ensures consistency between the reference and the provision to which it is referred. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 63]] Amendment 3 eliminates a rule that does not have no normative value. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 64]] Amendment 4 takes into account that death may also be the reason for the vacancy as President of the Polish Audit Supervisory Agency. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[It's debatable.]] But this isn't the time. We're voting now. Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all senators were in favour. [[Voting No 65]] Amendments 5 and 13 aim to ensure that also for candidates for the Board of Agencies recommended by the KNF the principle of twice the number of candidates is applied to the number of seats filled. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, all senators voted yes. [[Voting No 66]] Amendment 6 takes into account the general provision in the specific provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 67]] Amendment 7 aims to clearly identify the sequences of activities undertaken by the Agency which concern the draft of its annual financial plan. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 68]] Amendment 8 corrects the wrong reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 69]] Amendment 10... [[Voice from the room: No 9.]] Yeah, number nine, 'cause that's the sentence... Yes, of course. Amendment 9 corrects the wrong reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 70]] Amendment 10 takes into account that the only disciplinary authority with regard to auditors is the national disciplinary officer. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 71]] Amendment 11 seeks to ensure that the provisions on the right of access to information constituting a bank secret apply mutatis mutandis to information constituting a professional secret within the meaning of the Act on cooperative savings and credit banks. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, 82 for, 1 against. [[Voting No 72]] Amendment 14 takes into account that the Agency's financial plan cannot cover the period during which it did not exist. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 81 for, 1 against. [[Voting No 73]] Amendment 15 extends the deadline for audit firms to comply with the new requirements until 31 August 2020. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all senators were in favour. [[Voting No 74]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, 63 for, 1 against, 19 abstentions. [[Voting No 75]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on statutory auditors, audit firms and on public oversight and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the law amending the law on enforcement proceedings in the administration and certain other laws. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate prints No 1220 A and No 1220 B. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 76]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the law on enforcement proceedings in the administration and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and certain other laws. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 1228 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 77]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and on certain other laws. We return to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on income tax on natural persons, the Law on family benefits and the Act on health care benefits financed by public funds. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter; it is in print No 1231 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u132	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Commission proposes that the law be adopted without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u133	Thank you. Now I ask the minority rapporteur of the committee, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, to present proposals supported by a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u134	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're in such an awkward and awkward situation. The bill seems good, because it is intended to create good conditions, favourable conditions for young people. Yes? The bill removes personal income tax for all young people, but... unfortunately, the situation is very difficult because the law only applies to some young people. Moreover, if we had adopted this law in this form, if you had supported its adoption without amendments, it would have contributed to the fact that many young people would not have been interested in improving their qualifications. More: she will discourage study. And that's unfortunately... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[What?]] Yes. Unfortunately, that's the bill. She's talking about people who are exempt from personal income tax until they're twenty-six years old. Yes? So all those who graduate from vocational school enjoy this privilege for 8 years, those who graduate from tech school For, say, four, five years, even six years, and those who finish their studies, that is, try to raise their qualifications as much as possible, want to be engineers, lawyers, economists, etc., can benefit from this law for a year or even at all. This is unfortunately... [[Who pays for college?]] And that is the problem, unfortunately, that we as legislators should act in this direction so that young people raise their qualifications so that they study to be competitive in the labour market and in Poland and in the world, and not discourage them from improving their qualifications. That is why this amendment is saying that we should also exempt post-graduates from PIT, who for five more years, in short, could benefit from this privilege once they have completed their studies. So in order to balance the situation of people... not even really balance the situation of people who graduate from vocational school, at tech school, and those who continue to study. Therefore, the request to you not to vote in favour of the bill without amendments, i.e. to vote against this law first and then accept this amendment. [[Of course I do, logically.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u135	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, there are no more questions, no more questions, although I would like to ask them, but I can't. Does Senator Jan Rulewski, as the applicant and rapporteur, still want to speak? [[Mr. Marshal, is there anyone better and wiser to say that than Kazik Klein?]] Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the committee's motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? You're welcome to apply... Well, we're still voting, a little time... Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 58 votes against, 19 against, 7 abstentions. [[Voting No 78]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Income Tax on Individuals, the Law on Family Benefits and the Act on Health Care Benefits financed by public funds. We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the monitoring system for road and rail freight transport and certain other laws. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Infrastructure have presented one-sounding draft resolutions in which they request amendments to the Act; Senate prints No 1222 A and No 1222 B. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendment 1 is of a specific nature. Defines the marks of the forbidden act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all senators were in favour. [[Voting No 79]] Amendments 2 and 4 should be voted on together. They shall ensure the consistency of the law on vacathio legis, so as to avoid references to the provisions of the Law on the monitoring system entering into force at a later date in the pharmaceutical law which entered into force on a separate, earlier date. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 80]] Amendments 3 and 5 should be voted on together. They shall determine that only those entities which do not apply the transitional regulation in accordance with Article shall be covered by the obligation of simplified registration within the period from the day following the date of publication of the law until 31 March 2020. 16 laws. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 81]] Amendment 6 ensures the consistency of the law on vacathio legis, so that the provision setting out the jurisdiction of the tax authority on excise duty drawback, following in the case of demonstration of the consumption of products for heating purposes, enters into force within the same period the basis for such a refund. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 82]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 83]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Law on the monitoring system for road and rail freight transport and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the organisation and functioning of pension funds and the Act on occupational pension schemes. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 1197 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 84]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the organisation and functioning of pension funds and the Act on occupational pension schemes. We are returning to the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Nuclear Law and the Act on Fire Protection. The Environment Committee has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate print No 1205 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 85]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Law on Nuclear Law and the Act on Fire Protection. We return to the discussion of item 15 of the agenda: the law amending the Law on Cleanliness and Order in municipalities and some other laws. The meeting of the Committee on National Self-Government and Administration and the Committee on the Environment took place at the time of the discussion and prepared a joint report on the matter; it is published in print No 1230 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Alicia Zając, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u136	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The joint committees ask for amendments 1, 3, 4, 5, 7, 9, 11 and 13 and 22 to be adopted.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u137	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? I would remind you that the conclusions were made during the discussion: Senator Zdzisław Pupa, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka and Senator Alicia Zając. [[Thank you.]] Then we shall proceed to the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment 1 eliminates the emphasis that the maintenance of waste treatment facilities may be the responsibility of inter-communicative bodies. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 86]] Amendment 2 opens a catalogue of provisions contained in the municipal purity regulations. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. The votes were 82 senators, 23 votes for, 58 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 87]] Amendment 3 allows municipalities to define criteria for recognising that waste collection is carried out selectively. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 Senators voted, 82 votes against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 88]] Correction... Which one is it now? [[Voice from the room: 4th.]] Amendment 4 gives the provision a wording which takes into account the lack of obligation to give mixed waste. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 Senators voted, 82 votes against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 89]] Amendment 5 excludes the voluntaryity of joining the municipal waste management system in the case of semi-inhabited immovable property. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 81 for, 1 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 90]] We're skipping six. Amendment 7 introduces an obligation to join the municipal waste management system for recreational and leisure property. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 Senators voted, 81 for, 2 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 91]] Amendment 8 increases the maximum rates of waste management fees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? And I'm asking you to give me the results. 84 senators voted, 18 votes against, 62 against, 4 abstentions. [[Voting No 92]] Amendment 9 will allow municipalities to determine the method of calculating water consumption for the purpose of determining the waste management charge and shall indicate a resolution in which it could be determined. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 Senators voted, 81 for, 3 against. [[Voting No 93]] Amendment 11 requires that the amount of the levy in the case of non-segregation of waste be a multiple of the basic fee and not a maximum fee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 77 votes against, 4 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 94]] Amendment 13 deletes the provision modifying the effects of business ban decisions. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 81 votes against and three senators abstained. [[Voting No 95]] Amendment 14 excludes the obligation to register new vehicles within 30 days of their arrival from abroad. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, 79 votes against, 1 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 96]] Amendment 15 clarifies the scope of the entities required to transmit waste monitoring. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 97]] Amendment 16 correctly specifies the entry in the register. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 Senators voted 79 and 2 Senators abstained. [[Voting No 98]] Amendment 17 improves the rule of calculation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 Senators voted, 81 votes for, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 99]] Amendment 18 gives the amendment recommendation the correct wording. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 Senators voted 80 and 1 Senator abstained. [[Voting No 100]] Amendment 19 deletes the provision conferring powers on the Marshals of voivodships to issue a regulation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 Senators voted, 82 votes against and two Senators abstained. [[Voting No 101]] Amendment 20 restores... What time is it? [[Room voice: 18.09.]] Amendment 20 restores the code rules for the application of the law to be taken into account... [[Voices from the hall: More relative.]] ...more relevant to the perpetrator. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 Senators voted, 82 votes against and two Senators abstained. [[Voting No 102]] Amendment 21 introduces a disciplinary measure for the holders of waste to update the protection of claims. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 Senators voted, 82 votes against and two Senators abstained. [[Voting No 103]] Amendment 22 will allow waste incineration plants to function until a regulation setting out the list of such incineration plants has been adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 Senators voted, 82 votes against and two Senators abstained. [[Voting No 104]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 73 votes against, 2 against, 9 abstentions. [[Voting No 105]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Cleanliness and Order in municipalities and some other laws. We are returning to the review of item 16 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the Emissions Trading Scheme and certain other laws. The Environment Committee has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 1223 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 Senators voted, 82 votes against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 106]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the Emissions Trading Scheme and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Road Traffic and the Law on Road Transport. The Infrastructure Commission presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 1199 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 107]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Road Traffic and the Law on Road Transport. We are returning to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the Act amending the Energy Law. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation has presented a draft resolution in which it asks for this law to be adopted without amendments, while the minority of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation asks for an amendment; Senate print No 1235 A. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments, and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the minority proposal submitted. We proceed with the vote on the committee's motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 73 for, 4 against, 5 abstentions. [[Voting No 108]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Energy Law. We return to the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the Act on amending the Act on the National Obstetrics of the Hundredth Anniversary of the Reclaim of Independence of the Republic of Poland and the Act on the establishment of the Medal of the Century of Recovered Independence. The Committee on Culture and Media presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 1218 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 80 votes against, 2 abstentions, no one opposed. [[Voting No 109]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the National Obstetrics of the Hundredth Anniversary of the Reclaim of Independence of the Republic of Poland and the Act on the establishment of the Medal of the Century of Recovered Independence. We are returning to the examination of the 20th agenda item: the second reading of the draft law on amending the Housing Cooperatives Act. I would like to remind you that a report has been presented to the committee on the draft law and that a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would like to remind you that the committees are requesting the Senate to adopt a single bill in print No 1134 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Alexander Potoj to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft bill submitted by the committees and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 110]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Housing Cooperatives Act and has adopted a resolution on the implementation of this bill to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Alexander Pociej to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We are returning to the examination of item twenty of the first agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the law on education law. I would remind you that yesterday a report was presented to the committee on the draft law and a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committees are requesting the Senate to adopt a uniform bill in print No. 761 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Alexander Swede to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft bill submitted by the committees and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please be quiet and report the results. 80 Senators voted, 79 votes against and one Senator abstention. [[Voting No 111]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the law on education and has adopted a resolution on the introduction of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Alexander Swede to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We return to the examination of item twenty-second of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund. Following the second reading of the bill, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission and to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and obliged these committees to present an additional report at the present Senate meeting; it is published in print No 1175 X. We proceed to the third reading. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Mark Borowski, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u138	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to inform you that one amendment has been tabled for this project. This amendment was adopted unanimously. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u139	Thank you very much. Senator Marek Borowski may still speak as an applicant. [[Thank you.]] Thank you very much. In one form, it's just... Good. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur and the applicant in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I can't see. I can't hear anyone. Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, amendments will be voted in the order of the text, followed by the adoption of Draft No 1175 S, in full by amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendments tabled. Amendments 1 and 2 should be voted on together. Amendment 1 limits the execution of the judgment only to insured persons born in 1953 and specifies that the insurance will be compensated for the previous period of under-remuneration. Amendment 2 sets out the procedure for the recalculation of under-retirement proceedings before the date of entry into force of the proposed law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 80 for, 1 against. [[Voting No 112]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting on the draft law in its entirety with changes resulting from the amendments adopted and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. The committees propose that the Senate authorise Senator Marek Borowski to represent the Senate in further work on this bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 80 for, 1 against. [[Voting No 113]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a bill amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and has adopted a resolution on the introduction of this bill to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate authorised Senator Marek Borowski to represent the Senate in further work on this project. We return to the examination of item twenty-third of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on amending the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons and the law on combatants and certain victims of war and post-war repression. The Senate, following the second reading of the draft law, sent the draft to the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and obliged these committees to present an additional report at the current Senate meeting; it is in print No 1035 X. We proceed to the third reading. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Jan Rulewski, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u140	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A total of 12 amendments were tabled. As a result of the vote, as in the first reading, these 12 amendments were adopted by a majority in the absence of votes against but a large number of abstentions. Of course, there are some disciplinary amendments among these 12 amendments. From such changes, content is here, among others. to extend the scope of this law to persons engaged in economic and agricultural activities, farmers. Come on. Senator Sztark proposes that the witness to widows and widowers of those who are being repressed should be in the amount of the entire benefit, i.e. 426 PLN. Of course, widows and widows are granted custody rights and others with whom they shared their lives seem to be delegated to them. These benefits according to standards are exempt from taxes. As regards the amendments concerning the second part of this law, which treats the possibility of introducing tombstone marks on veterans' graves and anti-communist opposition activists This, of course, concerns the possibility of such execution. This was heard by the government and an amendment was tabled saying that this issue would be dealt with, in cooperation with the Office for Veterans, the Institute of National Remembrance, which would make this mark of honor, important, not merely an ornament. It always serves at the request of the family, but with the consent of the family, it can also take a similar initiative, and if it does, it is exempt from costs. Such a substantive change is also the fact that a fee of 25 PLN will be charged, much less than the costs of verification and execution of this mark on the grave. This fits well into the previously adopted law on celebrations of the century and will allow to mark these graves, not only in Poland, although widely here, because the value of this will be 20 PLN, but also abroad, especially where they may not allow the reconstruction of graves of veterans and heroes. During the discussion and vote on the amendments, there was such a belief that this was an initiative. only one group of Members. No, it's from the spirit of the previous bill that the Senate adopted. And there is a request that we give the Sejm a chance to join the list of authors, especially Prime Minister Morawiecki, who says that the present benefits are alms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u141	Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? Senator Shark? Mr. Senator Rulewski? No. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of query to the rapporteur and the applicants in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to take the floor, ask a question? I can't see and I can't hear anyone. We'll proceed with the vote. First, the votes on the amendments will be held. "Print No 1035 X' in the order of the project's provisions, followed by the adoption of the draft from print No 1035 S in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1 complements the provisions defining the scope of the Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted against, 25 votes against, 49 abstentions. [[Voting No 114]] Amendment 2 extends the definition to those who are oppressed for political reasons. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted against, 25 votes against, 49 abstentions. [[Voting No 115]] Amendment 3 tidys up the rules on issuing the card to a widow or widower after an opposition activist. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 72 senators voted against, 24 for, 48 senators abstained. [[Voting No 116]] Amendment 4 increases the amount of the benefit for the widow or widower of the opposition activists to the amount of the benefit available to the activists. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 70 senators voted, 21 votes against, 1 against, 48 abstentions. [[Voting No 117]] Amendments 5 and 6 should be voted on jointly... [[Oh, my gosh, it's over. Thank you.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] But don't comment, ladies and gentlemen. Well, we're in the Senate, I remind you. [[Voice from the hall: This is not the Sejm.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] Amendments 5 and 6 assume that the supplementary benefit will be granted to persons who are repressed, which are also covered by the provisions of the Social Insurance Fund Pension Act indicated at the same time. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted against, 23 votes against and 51 abstentions. [[Voting No 118]] Amendment 7 includes the monetary assistance of the ad hoc, one-off and periodic widows and widows of opposition activists. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 73 senators voted, 23 for and 50 senators abstained. [[Voting No 119]] Amendment 8 regulates the provisions introducing the necessary consequences of the solutions already adopted in the draft. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 73 senators voted, 23 for and 50 senators abstained. [[Voting No 120]] Amendments 9 and 11 should be voted on together. They move the regulations concerning the gravemark to the Law on graves of veterans fighting for freedom and independence of Poland and at the same time introduce further changes in ordering regulations and providing for the amount of the fee for issuing the mark at the level of PLN 25. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 73 senators voted, 23 votes against, 1 against, 49 abstentions. [[Voting No 121]] Amendment 10... [[Voice out of the room: Out of the question. Twelve o'clock now.]] Ah, now 12 o'clock. Amendment 12 to grant in the draft opposition activists an additional benefit takes into account this benefit in the income tax exemption provisions and in the income calculation rules which make up the benefit In the same way as in the arrangements already in force for the provision of money and monetary assistance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted against, 23 votes against and 51 abstentions. [[Voting No 122]] [[Voice from the room: The whole.]] [[Voice from the room: Now the next page.]] Next? But... Oh, here. We proceed to the vote on the adoption of the bill in its entirety with changes resulting from the amendments adopted and on the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. The committees propose that the Senate authorise Senator Jan Rulewski to represent the Senate in further work on the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. Seventy-four senators voted, twenty-four votes for, 42 against, eight abstentions. [[Voting No 123]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh.]] In view of the results of the vote, the Senate... Where is it? Oh, here... In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has not adopted a resolution on the submission of a draft law to the Sejm and has therefore concluded its proceedings in this case. We return to the examination of item twenty-seven of the agenda: the law amending the law on the support of borrowers in financial difficulties who have taken up a housing loan and some other laws. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 1219 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 72 senators voted, 61 votes against, no one opposed, 11 abstentions. [[Voting No 124]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the support of borrowers in financial difficulties who have taken up a housing loan and some other laws. I inform you that order has been exhausted. Are there any applications for statements? [[Voices from the room: Yes.]] There you go. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u142	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Would any of your senators like to speak? Senator Kazimierz Klein. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u143	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My statement is addressed to the Minister of Interior and Administration, Elizabeth Witek. With this statement I refer to the statement made by me on June 26th this year. during the 1980s first Senate meeting. Then I made a statement on the safety in the summer season in seaside resorts such as Łeba, Ustka, Władysławowo, Darłowo and others. I focused mainly on the town of Łeba. I have spent many years on security in these towns over the summer. Unfortunately, there are problems that are still unsolved. The city of Łeba, which has about 4,000 permanent residents, becomes a city of 50,000 during the summer, and even 100,000 people stay in the city once at the top of the season. Unfortunately, in these towns police stations or police stations are closed in the afternoons and are closed on days off, namely on Saturdays and Sundays. It seems that the police in these cities should become more involved in security matters during the summer, start police stations, start police stations also in the afternoon. The city of Łeba during the summer is a larger city than the county city in which the district police command is located. In cities such as Łeba, threats are much greater than in cities that are calm and less holiday-makers during the summer. A letter signed by dozens of residents and entrepreneurs of Łeba, addressed to the District Police Commissioner in Lębork concerning order in the centre of Łeba, arrived at my office. This document lists a number of examples of a notorious violation by the owners and employees of certain discos. Thus, the notorious disturbance of night silence; exceeding all noise standards by putting speakers outside the premises or marching, passing for advertising purposes using speakers, megaphones and illegal use of car horns; the presence of disco workers under the influence of alcohol, some also consider drugs. The residents and local entrepreneurs point out that they have repeatedly asked and continue to ask for police intervention in this matter. I also share the majority of the opinion in this letter, and sadly admit that the actions of the officers are embarrassing, weak, insufficient. I find out that some policemen are afraid to enter these discos because some of the guards are present or former police officers. Therefore, it can be presumed that, for reasons of co-workers, officers who are on duty do not respond to these reprehensible behaviours of the employees and visitors of these clubs. Such action, so not intervention, can lead to tragic situations. Recently, in Łeba, in the vicinity of one of the discos, there was a situation when two people were attacked with knives and one of them was fighting for their lives. Dear Minister, it seems that this case is not only a concrete example of the lack of proper supervision in uniform services, but also in my view the result of the long-term negligence by the Ministry of the Interior. It seems to me that for a period of years appropriate and sufficient resources should be regrouped from the towns from which the inhabitants go on holiday, such as. Warsaw or many other places. They should intervene and act temporarily in towns such as Łeba and other holiday villages. Today, the district police chief claims to be receiving fewer and fewer officers to assist him during the summer season. The government of Prime Minister Morawiecki talks about opening up further posts, police stations, those which, as Mr Morawiecki claims, were closed during the reign of the Civic Platform. What's the point of opening up new precincts, new precincts, since these precincts, these precincts, they don't have cops? This is the way to nowhere. There is a need for decisive action. There doesn't have to be a police station in every location, but there's a need for determined police intervention. That's what I'm asking. I ask the Minister to direct the necessary forces and resources to holiday villages for a period of years so that there is no tragedy. Once again, I would like to stress: residents and entrepreneurs are not against discos, they even believe that they can be organized in any apartment, in any place. However, you just have to take care of security, and there are services that have to enforce it. That is why I am performing for the second time in a short, near time, with an appeal to address this issue, because the summer is short and the tragedy can happen at any time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u144	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator George Wcisla.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u145	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! The statement is addressed to the Minister of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Marek G grubarczyk. Dear Minister, On 21 March this year, I asked the Minister to extend the port of Elbląg to deepen the watercourse on the Elbląg River, which is part of the construction of the canal by measuring. The reason for the request is that the Elbląg River is of the nature of inland sea waters and is therefore subject to the maritime office and thus to the Polish state, and without deepening the port, the construction of the canal by measure loses economic sense. The Minister's reply of 18 April was unambiguously negative: the maritime administration is not responsible for this, and the task lies with the port management. That's what the Minister said. On 28 May, I called on the President of the Council of Ministers to allow Elbląg to submit an application to the programme of the Bridges for the Regions in order to solve the problem of the construction of the bridge on the Elbląg River, recommended by the government in this programme and also strategically important for the economic sense of building the channel by measure. The answer of 19 June was also negative and did not indicate that the government intended to deal with this investment. Both answers clearly show that the Polish government does not intend to finance any of the 2 investments necessary for the economic viability of building the channel by measuring, recognising that this is a problem and a duty of local governments. At the same time, representatives of the Ministry or subordinates at different locations inform that both investments will be carried out. Since the answers I received in writing and the verbal declarations are mutually exclusive, I ask for specific information. What programmes and budgets include investments in the construction of the bridge in Nowakow and the deepening of the port of Elbląg? What are the resources allocated to these investments? Within what time-limit is it scheduled to be implemented? I am also sending another statement to the Minister of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, Mr Mark G grubarczyk. Dear Minister, The Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping announces the selection of the contractor of the first stage of construction of the channel by measuring. This should mean that all doubts and reservations about this investment are resolved. I would therefore like to inform you whether the discrepancies with the European Commission have been clarified. Has the European Commission accepted the project of building the channel by measure? Did she bring her comments to the project? Are they relevant to the costs and conduct of the investment? If so, what is it? Has the position of the European Commission and the Polish Government been agreed in all details? If not, what are the controversy and how can it affect the implementation of the investment, including the first stage? I know that the Polish government has convinced the European Commission that I measure the construction of the channel as an investment made for the security of the state and the European Union does not have to meet all environmental requirements. Have these arguments been taken into account by the European Commission? In addition, in the context of the consultation, environmental organisations and, among others, environmental organisations contributed attention to the construction of the channel. local government of Pomorskie Voivodship. Have all these comments been answered by the applicant? Will the inclusion of these comments have an impact on the investment? If not all doubts about environmental conditions and agreement with the European Commission have been resolved, will this not affect the implementation of the first stage of the channel by measure? And if it can, shouldn't the decision to select the contractor be preceded by decisive arrangements with all objections, including the European Commission? I'm asking you to answer that question. And one more statement. [[Yes, please.]] Short. The statement is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers of Mateusz Morawiecki. Dear Prime Minister, Public consultations on the development of the TEN-T Trans-European Transport Network are ongoing until 17 July. The involvement of the Polish government in this process may be of great importance for the decision on the inclusion of transport routes in the TEN-T network relevant to our country. I hope this opportunity will not be missed. At the same time, please include in the consultation a network of waterways included in the AGN Convention, i.e. international waterways E30, E40 and E70, together with complementary channels: the channel through the measure and the Danube channel Oder The Elbe, as well as the S5 expressway on the New Dreams section near Grudziądz ..Iława.. Ostróda. This section will allow a combination of A1 and S7 base roads. At the same time, Via Carpatia will be connected to ports in Gdańsk, Gdynia and Elbląg. The integration of these roads into the TEN-T network will be of great importance for the development of ports and Warmia-Mazury voivodship, and the fact that the TEN-T network will open up the possibility of obtaining EU funds for their construction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u146	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Arthur Warzocha.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u147	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The inhabitants of the town of Jezowa in the municipality of Ciasna in the district of Lublin in the Śląskie Voivodeship asked my senator's office to stop the construction of the S11 road in the planned variant, which they believe is an extremely harmful communication solution. At the same time, they informed that they had already intervened in the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways, at the Commune of Ciasna, at the road designer and at the Polish Sejm, Mr Andrzej Gawron. At the same time, they proposed a route option, which has become one of several equivalent possible routes of this route in their locality. The green option proposed by the residents runs almost throughout the whole section through the forest areas at an appropriate distance from the buildings and run for generations of farms. For a change, previously designed variants, namely blue and red, prevent further development, but also the running of these farms. The further cultivation of agricultural land on the other side in unfavourable options is reduced to long distance travel by farmers. These options also separate the town from the rest of the municipality of Ciasna, which will cause numerous difficulties e.g. in the access of children and young people to schools. At the same time, residents fear that the isolation of the village from the rest of the municipality and the construction of a road near residential buildings can lead to total depopulation of Jezewa in the future. High noise and pollution from car exhaust are equally negative factors. At the same time, the residents argue that all these institutions understand their concerns, with the exception of the Commune of Ciasna, which clearly opposes the green option. Therefore, I kindly ask you to refer this statement to the ministers of infrastructure and construction, environmental protection and agriculture and rural development, with a request to reconsider the planned route. The proposal was supported by a group of 257 inhabitants of Jezova. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u148	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u149	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's statement is addressed to the head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons, Mr.John Józef Kasprzyk. Dear Minister, The office you're in charge of, among other things. helping people who, in general, have been wronged by history. Polish history, especially the times of World War II and the immediately postwar years, war activities, occupation, deportations, expulsions, forceful introduction of the so-called. folk power to our country All this left a lasting mark in our nation. The Polish state is instrumental in helping all victims affected by the war and its consequences: combatants, oppressed people, widows and widows after them, deported to forced labour, soldiers of alternative military service, blind victims of war activities, invalids of war. Unfortunately, aid rules are scattered over different laws. The scope of the aid varies for the different categories of victims. In addition, its forms are often no longer in line with the expectations of particular groups of addressees due to the passage of time and changing social conditions. These facts give rise to unnecessary misgivings and pretensions among those entitled. It should also be noted that annual appropriations are made available from a special special reserve for the needs of the Office. However, they are not used entirely Some of the funding from this reserve will return to the state budget after it has been dissolved. Minister, isn't it time to standardise in the form of a single law the provisions on aid for victims of World War II, as well as on equalisation of the powers of individual groups, their implementation and, of course, an increase in benefits? The latter is supported by the rapid decline in the number of eligible persons due to their age. However, there is no shortage of funds for possible increases in benefits. This demand for proper appreciation of the victims of both invaders and invaders of Poland is of importance, even now, on the 80th anniversary of the outbreak of World War II. The Polish state rightly demands payment of war reparations due to Poland and compensation for its citizens from the perpetrators of World War II. Decent treatment by his country, by his homeland of Poles victimized by history, can become an additional argument in the discussion which Poland will fight with legal successors of the aggressors of World War II. I'd like to express my respects. Jerzy Czerwiński, Senator of the Republic of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-07-12-senat-82-3.u150	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the second sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The second Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland 9th term of office is closed. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[End of session at 18 minutes 51]]
