ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-22-sejm-77-5.u1	Resume session. I would like to call Catherine Osos and Wojciech the King to the secretaries of today's proceedings. The minutes and the list of speakers will be led by Mrs Katarzyna Osos. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-22-sejm-77-5.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth at 3 p.m. 10. The Parliamentary Group will also be meeting today. Medical marijuana - at 3 p.m. 12. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-22-sejm-77-5.u3	Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 62 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Code of Conduct in Criminal Matters (Print No 2417). I ask Mr Paweł Szramka to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-22-sejm-77-5.u4	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Messengers! Honourable Members, gathered today in the Chamber! The country in the clowns! Ladies and gentlemen! We are dealing with a very short law made by the Kukiz club15, provided to us by the Law Association on the Road. It is an association that helps drivers in particular very often in criminal cases. As we know, the only person who is not wrong is the one who is doing nothing, and it also happens, unfortunately, that the police officer will be wrong, not in intentions, but in the assessment of the incident that happened on the road, and may wrongly conclude that the citizen has committed a misdemeanor. There's an appeal. The citizen may disagree with the mandate, of course, and then the case goes to court. And this is where the stairs start, because I think the average citizen doesn't have that much knowledge, and he doesn't have the experience to deal with the courts. And here with help can come just such associations as the Law Association on the Road. However, the problem is that it is currently not possible for social organisations, associations, etc. to participate in infringement proceedings according to our legal order. That is why we are proposing this change. We know that there are positive opinions on this issue of the various institutions, and it is the courts, but they have some comments, so I think it is worth referring this law to the committee to correct all these inaccuracies, so that it is a well-established law. However, I am of the opinion that we should definitely not reject this project because it will allow greater transparency, greater participation of citizens, helping citizens in judicial matters. As I said before, the average citizen is not very likely to be in the courts every day, he is not familiar with the law, so the involvement of associations and organisations that have experience in this, which can somehow guide the conduct of this citizen, so that in fact this judicial case is as objective and as honest as possible, is legitimate. So please accept this project and I look forward to your comments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-22-sejm-77-5.u5	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski, first on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-22-sejm-77-5.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law amending the Code of Conduct in Criminal Matters, print No 2417. The Parliamentary draft law amending the Law The Code of Conduct in Criminal Matters contains a proposal to amend the article. 31 of the Law of 24 August 2001. Code of conduct in cases of misconduct by adding to it § 3, which aims to enable the participation of a social organisation in criminal proceedings to be notified, as follows: In the proceedings before a court, participation in proceedings may be made by a social organisation. Article 4 is replaced by the following: 90 and 91 of the Code of Criminal Procedure shall apply. According to the justification of the project, in the current legal state, social organisations do not have the possibility to report their participation in criminal proceedings, and it is not justified to maintain the de lege of the lack of such possibility in the assessment of the projectors. In particular, it is unacceptable in a democratic legal state to justify the lack of participation of social organisations, often representing large groups of citizens, with a lower weight of cases recognised in criminal proceedings. It is often also necessary to protect the social interest or an important individual interest, in particular the protection of freedom and human rights in infringement proceedings. In our opinion, the proposed amendment of the article. 31 c.p.w. and the proposed solutions raise doubts. It does not speak for them, among others. having regard to the need to safeguard the interests of the general public or individuals in these proceedings, if the number of public-interest advocates with appropriate powers in such proceedings, which would give the possibility that the interests of the public as well as the individual citizens would be protected to the appropriate extent, is even the case in the current legal regulations. In addition, it should be noted that Article. 90 and 91 c.p.k. For a misdemeanor procedure, that change... Reviewing the provision of the article. 90 and 91 c.p.k. In any event, the nature of the offence and the general principles of such infringement proceedings are questionable in any event. as regards the speed of such proceedings and their simplified nature. We understand the purpose of the applicants. To some extent it can be said that this objective is commendable, but it seems to us that the measures that have been proposed here will not necessarily achieve this goal to the highest extent. There were no arguments in the explanatory memorandum that would be convincing to us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-22-sejm-77-5.u7	Thank you very much. Ms Katarzyna Osos will now speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-22-sejm-77-5.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, I will present my position on the draft parliamentary law amending the Code of Conduct in Criminal Matters. The draft law provides for the possibility for the social organisation to notify its participation in infringement proceedings under the rules applicable in criminal proceedings. In the view of the applicants, the participation of a social factor in proceedings should not be differentiated between judicial proceedings which are based on the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Code of Conduct in Criminal Matters. The involvement of the social factor is certainly intended to enhance the protection of law enforcement, in particular the protection of freedom and human rights, the strengthening of social control of justice and transparency. Cases concerning civil rights and civil liberties are also dealt with in infringement proceedings and the direction of change can therefore be seen as positive. Among the opinions sent to the draft law, the draft was mostly positively assessed. The national prosecutor and the Council of Ministers submitted a negative position. The Council of Ministers stressed that the Code of Conduct in Criminal Matters regulates proceedings relating to acts of minor social harm and therefore the procedure is simplified and the extension of this procedure is unjustified. In addition, he points out in his view that, given the reduced importance of cases, the risk of some irregularities in this area is negligible. As a club, we are of the opinion that, in view of the different positions and arguments which have led to the project, it would be appropriate to refer the draft to the committee responsible in order to discuss in detail and address the doubts and comments identified. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-22-sejm-77-5.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Szramka will now speak on behalf of the Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-22-sejm-77-5.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much to the speaker for this declaration that you want to work on the draft at the committee meeting. I also thank the representatives of Law and Justice that there was no motion for rejection at first reading, because this is usually how the adventure of the law ends here. I hope we have a chance to work on this at the committee meeting. I understand, of course, the arguments made by the Member, but I think that these advantages resulting from the entry into force of the law are much greater. We have more transparency here, and we have the opportunity to help citizens in criminal cases. As I have already said in the explanatory statement of the project, very few people really interact with the courts. And it can really turn out that when stress arises in the course of a court case, ignorance and lack of experience as to how to proceed in such cases, even though the citizen did not commit any wrongdoing, he was right, in the court, in fact not because of his fault, it will come out that he committed the offence, and then an unfair sentence may fall. So I appeal to you to accept this bill. I call on us to work on him on the committee. If there's anything worth correcting, let's do it. On the other hand, it is certainly not worth rejecting this project, and it is this crowd of citizens who would like to benefit from the help of associations, and at the moment cannot do so, that we will all be grateful. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-22-sejm-77-5.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk will speak on behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the European Union of Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-22-sejm-77-5.u12	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I would like to present a position on the draft parliamentary law amending the Code of Conduct in Criminal Matters, print No 2417. As to the substance, in the debate on this project, the argument was made that there are a lot of players who represent the public interest and there is nothing to expand this catalogue. What is convincing and, nonetheless, is in favour of the change proposed in this project, is that, as far as the substance of the project is concerned, it has been reported by the social organisation, which clearly shows that, despite the number of persons who may represent this interest, even as applicants have pointed out in the case of traffic, it is still a feeling of insufficient protection of the interests of those who appear in the proceedings. I think it's worth leaning on this project. Sure, he's not perfect, but we don't often deal with perfect presentations. It is worth, I think, listening to the voices of those organizations who say that there are still a lot of people who feel that they lack this sense of justice, lack of support, for example in relation to these traffic offences. Therefore, the Polish People's Party Club - the Union of European Democrats is in favour of us trying to process this project, moving on to further work. And we will soon be able to adapt these rules so that social organisations can be allowed to deal with criminal offences in some consensus. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-22-sejm-77-5.u13	Thank you very much. Five ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. The first question is asked by Mr Jerzy Jachnik, the Kukiz Club15. Question time - 1 minute. I'm closing the list of questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-22-sejm-77-5.u14	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Membership! Well, I'm asking what's bothering anyone that there's a non-governmental organization involved in the criminal, administrative or criminal proceedings. This is not about road matters, it is about the fact that the participation of social organisations should be mandatory, if possible and if there are such organisations. I'm saying this based on my experience, which as a representative of the organization, I have in dozens of trials. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Code of Misdemeanors, police protocols are often falsified, not just cases of misdemeanor, cases of interference with silence. The person who comes from the Code of Misdemeanors is condemned in advance to be eaten in court, and if not, he will spend three years there, and she will think so. So, Minister, I would go further: one regulation in criminal proceedings, in criminal proceedings, in civil and administrative proceedings. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What's in the way? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-22-sejm-77-5.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-22-sejm-77-5.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would also like to refer to the position of the Law and Justice Club, the Member, because, as I listened to you, it is basically a discussion for me as to whether the party to the proceedings will be an association or a private person, it is the same discussion as whether or not, I don't know, she will have pants or skirts, more or less. I think that no matter who's on the side, it's an important argument, but it doesn't matter. Let's get back to the question. The question is, of course, to the applicant, because I understand that the introduction of this law will allow associations to help citizens in cases of misconduct in court. Is it just gonna be about these big, big associations, I don't know, for example. providing free legal aid, will it be no different and even the smallest association will be able to act? And the second question: Can they completely replace this person, i.e. whether they exist. Association Law on the Road on behalf of the person concerned, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Or as an expert? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-22-sejm-77-5.u17	Thank you. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-22-sejm-77-5.u18	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We probably all know very well that the Law Society on the Road helps citizens in judicial matters. Why do they not have the opportunity to help these citizens in cases of wrongdoing? After all, not everyone even knows where to look for help and that they can be helped. I think this is where we have to deal with things as normal, humanely, and help citizens in criminal matters as well. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-22-sejm-77-5.u19	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Chasing, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-22-sejm-77-5.u20	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicants, but also for the government. Non-governmental organisations are one of the most excellent forms of social control to help solve problems such as: various disputes between the state and the citizen, and we know that this is a serious situation in road traffic offences. These traffic violations, court cases are very often of little importance, but they go on, they deal with the justice system. Is there any obstacle or other idea of how to involve citizens, how to include better social control, especially in a situation where we are still at the stage of building our democracy and building civil society? At every stage, the inclusion of social control will help the functioning of the state and help to make citizens feel comfortable, feel at home and co-decidive. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-22-sejm-77-5.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-22-sejm-77-5.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Very short question: Will the participation of social organisations in judicial matters, including cases of misconduct, be helpful to citizens, or will they be disturbed? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-22-sejm-77-5.u23	Thank you very much. Would the Minister like to speak? Please, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, Mr. Michał Wójcik.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-22-sejm-77-5.u24	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you so much for these important questions. I will try to respond and also present the government's position on this matter. The government has a negative position on this. This is the position of the Council of Ministers and this is due to very specific reasons. I would like to say first of all that if the involvement of organisations of this kind in proceedings were justified, then in the 1970s, when the laws on offences were in place - and the law on infringement proceedings was set up in 1971 - the social factor would be expected to be involved. Over these decades, it has been stated that there is no need, and this is due to the legitimacy of the legislator. It must be borne in mind that criminal proceedings differ from criminal proceedings, which are governed by the Code of Criminal Procedure, where the participation is actually ensured. These issues are dealt with in Article. 90 and Article 90 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of I am about to refer to this provision, because what you are referring to in your justification relates both to doctrine and case law. The Court of First Instance, the Constitutional Tribunal, explained to what extent the legislator could act and that, indeed, these social organisations may, but do not have to be there. Let me get this straight. This is due to a specific judgment. In our view, it is contrary to the principles of this procedure to allow a social organisation to participate in infringement proceedings. I do not need to explain the part of the country that has these kinds of things, which is on the side of citizens, that they are much faster, shorter, less complicated. The weight of these cases is much lower than in cases which are resolved in criminal proceedings. It's specific how these cases are dealt with, because there could be a court order... It's very fast. Of course, there are also some issues about what to do at a time when someone disagrees, but because these cases are not usually complicated, they are settled in order, precisely because the weight of these cases is such and not different. Of course, it is also appropriate to answer Mr Jerzy Jachnik's question. You said that in many places protocols are falsified. I spoke with the prosecutor who is taking part with me in this hearing today, and - at least his experience shows that, but I also have not heard of such cases - I do not think that there are many such cases that the protocols are falsified in such proceedings. [[Minister, protocols...]] Okay, we'll check it out, of course. We're gonna process... We'll check it out in detail. And I don't have that kind of information, so that it's some kind of nagminne, that this is a problem that would justify this kind of solution. As for what is in favour of not introducing this law, it is a matter of rationalism of the legislator. The nature of this procedure, which is completely distinct, reduced in formal terms, the method of proceding, the minor harm of such acts, translates into the fact that this procedure is characteristic. This is about matters of less importance, of less importance than crimes, not very vulnerable sanctions for acts and actions that are much faster and much shorter. You remember, you remember how we discussed here during this term of office about tightening the penalties for road traffic offences. There will be a conference soon and we will present the very good results of this law. But there we also raised issues concerning criminal proceedings, the statute of limitations. You remember the Frog case. Eighty. A few charges. So? It's all over the statute of limitations. I would remind you that in the Ministry of Justice, we extended the deadline from 2 years to 3 years. There are two terms: 1 - 1 year and 2 - at the moment 3 years old. From 2 years to 3 years, we have extended this second term - the situation in which the proceedings were initiated - so that there is no limitation in such cases, with such offences. Why are they subject to statute of limitations? 'Cause, you know, like... A skilled lawyer was able to conduct proceedings in such a way as to lead to a statute of limitations. It can be imagined that in such matters, in fact minor, a social organization can be a defender or a proxy and can stand on each side. A skilled lawyer can also lead to chronic treatment. Can you imagine such a situation with such short deadlines? Yes, you can. Hypothetically, it is absolutely possible. Of course, this also causes certain costs, in some sense bureaucracy, and in my opinion there is no need for those rules that apply to criminal proceedings to be transferred to criminal proceedings. This is also apparent from Article. 182 constitutions. He speaks of the fact that the involvement of citizens in the administration of justice is actually governed by the law. This does not mean that such an organisation should participate in any proceedings, including infringement proceedings. At the end of the day, the legislator always decides on the involvement of citizens in the administration of justice. He ultimately determines the shape of this participation. This is what the doctrines say: Banashak, the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Comments, 2012, p. 806; Nalezinski, Similarly, the Constitutional Tribunal stated in its 2005 judgment as the Article should be understood. 182 Constitution. It is an authorising and sending standard indicating competence for the ordinary legislator to introduce the involvement of a civil factor in the justice system. But from the point of view of the extent to which the social factor is involved in the administration of justice, it only means that this participation may be limited to certain matters. And the second part is that it excludes the possibility of such regulation, so that in the case of a category of justice it is only a social factor. So to recap: the constitution and the rules that are in the constitution or the article. 3 Code of Criminal Procedure or Art. 4 The laws of the general courts do not prejudice that such a social representative must be involved in criminal proceedings. [[But he doesn't.]] They don't, of course. But there is one issue that I have already pointed out twice, i.e. the question of the legitimacy of the legislator. Why introduce these organisations into proceedings that are less complicated are faster, simpler, less important matters? It hasn't been done in decades. In our view, as far as the government's position is concerned, this provision should not be... The rules that are in the Code of Criminal Procedure should not apply to criminal offences. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-22-sejm-77-5.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Szramka, representative of the applicants. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-22-sejm-77-5.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for your questions. Thank you, Minister, for your position. Thank you all the more because you have confirmed me even more in the fact that this law is justified because you have made absolutely no argument why this law would not enter into force. Just because these are matters of minor importance and that there are lower penalties, does not mean that the citizen should be left to himself. Why does the government not want to allow citizens to be supported by associations, organisations that can help in these matters? I don't really get the argument that it's been like this for many years. The Minister knows that for many years the wheel has not been used, and eventually someone invented it, started using it, and I think life has become easier, so maybe it's worth leaning on it. As for falsifying the protocols, the Minister referred to Mr Jachnik as saying that this is not something nagminne. There shouldn't be anything like that at all - not a single case. Just because it's not really an excuse, it's not an excuse. And speaking of questions: any association could participate in these matters. These associations are primarily those who want to support the citizen in matters. I agree that there is no better way for social control. The question at the end: What is stopping the government from allowing it? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-22-sejm-77-5.u27	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-22-sejm-77-5.u28	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Poselski Club I am pleased to present the position of the club regarding the parliamentary draft law amending the Code of Conduct in Criminal Matters, print No 2417. The purpose of the proposed project is to enable the public organisations to report their participation in legal proceedings in criminal proceedings on the basis and in accordance with the procedures laid down in criminal proceedings. The direction chosen by the designers should be commended. There is no doubt that social organisations, which often represent a wide range of citizens and care about social matters, should be able to participate in cases which are recognised in criminal proceedings. Therefore, appropriate changes in Polish law are necessary. Unfortunately, concerns are raised in the way the proposed amendment is implemented. As provided for in the draft law, the addition of § 3 to Article 31 The code of conduct in cases of misconduct is flawed and needs to be corrected. This issue was further described by the Supreme Court in its comments to the submitted project. First of all, it is the way in which the Code of Criminal Procedure refers to the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure and to the non-compliance of the proposed provisions with the standard adopted. I understand that these errors stem from the inexperience of legal and legislative Members and Members of the Kukiz Club15. However, we should not throw the whole project into the trash. As I said before, the direction of the proposed changes is right. That is why Members of Modern Affairs will vote in favour of the proposal being submitted for further work in committee. We hope that the amendments proposed by the Supreme Court will be made in the course of further work.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-22-sejm-77-5.u29	Marshal of the Sejm, based on art. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, it directs the parliamentary draft law amending the Code of Conduct in Criminal Matters, contained in print No. 2417, to the Extraordinary Commission for Changes in Codifications for consideration. On this we have exhausted the agenda of the 77th meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I consider the list of Members who have been made to make statements... [[The envoy has yet to report.]] You're still here. We therefore have four Members who have come forward. Please, as the first statement made by Mrs Alice Chybick, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-22-sejm-77-5.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to raise a very important problem in Polish hospitalization, namely the role of clinical hospitals. Clinical hospitals are specific hospitals. These are hospitals which, as a major task, have pre-diploma and post-graduate education, carry out scientific research and, in addition, carry out therapeutic activities. Unlike hospitals that only deal with medical activities, the obligations imposed on the staff of these hospitals exceed those carried out in other hospitals. There are 47 clinical hospitals in Poland, of which there are typically university hospitals in Białystok two, in Bydgoszcz two, in Gdańsk two, in Katowice seven, in Cracow four, in Lublin three, in Łódź four, in Poznań five, in Szczecin - two, in Warsaw six, in Wrocław - one with Alzheimer's disease treatment center as a satellite, in Olsztyn one, in Zielona Góra - one, in Kielce basically students practice in a city hospital. When it comes to financing these hospitals, it's really been discussed for many years as something weird. It's a guinea pig, not a guinea pig, not a guinea pig. It is a purely educational and scientific unit like universities, like technical universities, like all other universities. As far as hospital treatment is concerned, these are hospitals with the highest references in all the grading networks that have been created. They are always performed because there are specialists of the highest quality, the most difficult and expensive procedures. These hospitals with debt due in Poland - 1,47 billions generate half of this debt - about 500 million. This is because those hospitals from all other hospitals whose founding authorities are either marshals or other entities - here the founding body is a university which has no medical resources at all - are quite often directed by patients, particularly complicated, difficult cases are addressed. It's to clinical hospitals right now. The costs are much higher here, but are there higher rates? Absolutely not. The rates for the same disease treated at the university clinical hospital... Let me give you an example of pneumonia. Pneumonia is valued in each reference unit similarly, but no one takes into account that in a clinical hospital it is often a case against cancer, haematopoietic disease, rare disease, which generates much higher costs and is much more difficult to diagnose and then to treat properly. Thus, for many years, since I can remember, it has been said that there will finally be a law on clinical hospitals in Poland. I don't know how many drawers this bill is already in or the beginnings of this bill. It has been done many times, it has never been completed. I know there's an extension project for clinical hospitals, but among the hospitals I mentioned, there are those that are on the positive balance sheet. Will hospitals, which are less economy, less managed, be promoted once again? However, under the same conditions and rates, one hospital can balance and the other can not. In fact, there is an urgent need, above all, to value medical benefits for these hospitals - a separate and appropriately high one. I know that something like this is going on in AOTMIT, but it's been going on for a long time, and we should proceed with the Clinical Hospitals Act so that their place is as it should be, that pre- and post-graduate didactics are carried out, science, and the patient has the best possible care, and that these hospitals are not treated like all other hospitals, for which the only occupation is the treatment of the sick, and most often the patients are the lightest. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-22-sejm-77-5.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Wilk, Freedom and Effective.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-22-sejm-77-5.u32	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday we found out there was a police raid on national media television. There are no reasons why the police are harassing the media. Why did this happen, why? We only have information that people have been questioned about the information campaign related to Law 447 concerning claims of the organization of the Holocaust industry in connection with the so-called. property without heirs. This is very dangerous, very disturbing information. We strongly demand that we be told why the police have invaded, who has given such an order, why such actions are being carried out. In view of what is happening around this law, with the next kind of progress of the work, with further information that is coming to us, that this law will be implemented, we just need as much information as possible, information action, so that Poles will learn how much danger this is due to, and not the opposite. Not that there are any attempts to suppress or close the mouths of the public and the media, independent media, who want to inform Poles about the great threat of this law, especially when the government consistently pretends that there is no problem. That's the first thing. Second thing. We learned yesterday or this morning that Mr.Israel Katz, who is currently the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Israel, strongly refused to apologize to Poland for the shameful words that supposedly Poles suck anti-Semitism with mother's milk. Of course, there's the same thing in the background. It is still an attempt to put pressure on Poland to submit to demands that in the long term it introduce a law that will satisfy completely unfounded demands of the organization of the Holocaust industry. In this situation, as the Propolska Coalition, we demand that the Polish Government cancel our ambassador in Israel, because I do not imagine that any Polish diplomat who has at least a little honour could have anything to do with such a foreign minister as Mr. Israel Katz. The Propolska Coalition strongly demands that Ambassador Magierowski be removed from the institution in Israel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-22-sejm-77-5.u33	Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-22-sejm-77-5.u34	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I took the liberty of taking the floor and commenting on the so-called. The Presidential Act No. 1836, which was dealt with by the Finance Commission for the last two days, which politicians, and precisely the ministers of the President's Office and the media, call it the Franc Act. I would like to protest and declare that the printing law 1863 has so much in common with the so-called. Frankish problems like Mr. Biedron's with Spring. Why? Because the title of this law is to amend the law on the support of borrowers in financial difficulties who have taken up housing loans and certain other laws. It so happens that we have different housing programs in Poland for 30 years. There was an Alice program, an apartment for young people. We're not very lucky with these apartment programs. As life shows, in many cases it ended dramatically. Marriages fell apart, people went bankrupt and had problems. But there is not really a systemic solution to the problem of so-called. François. Why am I taking the floor? Because for 2 days the media have been lying to the majority of Polish society with political support, calling it the Law on Helping the Francs, saying that it is the Law of Francowicz. As a Member of the Committee of the Regions, as a Member of the European Parliament, the applicant for print No 729, i.e. the law on the systemic solution to the problem so-called. I inform you that in the finance committee, in the subcommittee on these topics, three projects, including the Kukiz project15, are still lying and not being considered. So the media, all the media, from right to left, on TV, the Internet and the radio, are lying. I'm telling you they're lying. This bill is not a franchise law, this law is not an issue of the Francowitz environment by the President. Conclusion: Mr. President can't shake off today that he's done what he promised in the election campaign. Mr. President, this point is still valid, this point needs to be resolved and dealt with. During the committee meeting, the President of the Polish Bank Association spoke about the fact that we already have a different situation. That's right, we have a different situation, because in this term we have seen times like this, that in courts we have judgments in which people win. I have read in recent days the statement by the vice-president of the UOKiK Dorota Karczewska, who says: Judges in franchise cases are often afraid to apply European law directly or refer to judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union. The result is judgments in which consumer law is mutilated. It's high time the courts stopped kicking open doors. The point is that Directive 93/13 on consumer rights in Polish courts is not used and the Polish citizen is a second-class citizen in the European Union. Request, Mr. President. If you really want to help the so-called environment. Frankivists, please support the UOKiK, the financial spokesman in the actions to ensure that the courts respect EU law not only as regards the age of judges, but also as regards civil rights, rights of Polish citizens. Because I assure you, if this were to be carried out, it would already be at the first hearing in all so-called. Frankowicz agreements would be struck with a black flamaster so-called. Abusive records. This means that the Polish state does not have a problem with international courts when it comes to the Treasury, and we are dragging us for compensation, but we are implementing EU law accepted by all members, including by corporations, which today use the fact that Polish politicians hide their heads in the sand and say that there are no problems. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-22-sejm-77-5.u35	Mr Robert Majka, Independent Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-22-sejm-77-5.u36	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I came to tell you as usual in an empty room. [[How empty?]] Here's what I'm gonna say. The most important problem for 30 years is freedom of speech. My previous speaker graphically presented that there is censorship in Poland. I have to say, this is not the only example. I myself, as an independent and non-associated Member, have a lot of evidence for this. My interpellation on the state report from 1989 to 2018 is still blocked in the media. My interpellation on the JUST Act, S.447, is still blocked in the media at the Polish Press Agency. You might ask yourself how a Member can reach the public and reach out to the Poles to find out. It is sad after 30 years of transformation - the military internal services have made a specific exchange of security apparatus of the Polish People's Republic, WSW and SB, and their people oversee the political system, the economic system and unfortunately, it is sad, also the media. That's where the question arises, because most people... What parliament are we in? Is this the Polish Parliament? I hear voices that this is not a Polish parliament, that this is a Knesset. It scares me. I speak with full responsibility for my words. It scares me. I do not feel like a representative of Kneset, I feel like a representative of the Republic of Poland. However, I would like to say here that until the Poles wake up, until the Poles just want to get out of their knees, they do not wish to break this system, the formula of General Czesław Kiszczak: we do not move yours, you do not move ours - nothing really changes in Poland. It's about political will. This isn't about some street brawl, this isn't about some riot, because it's not about that. But, ladies and gentlemen, it must not be that the Member presents certain documents, presents an interpellation to the government and receives an enigmatic response, a completely illogical response. I have received such answers to a few of my interpellations. And now you can see one very important point. How long will we function in this reality? Unfortunately, Polish society has been intimidated since 1988 on the basis of this breakthrough. The level of intimidating Poles is unbelievable today, ladies and gentlemen. It's not like someone says law and justice rules, it's censorship. No, that's not true. This preventive censorship has been functioning for 30 years. Sad, but I say it with full responsibility. I would like Mr Jarosław Kaczyński to make every effort - maybe it is my naivety, but I would like them to do their best - to break this preventive censorship in Poland, which violates the provisions of the article. 54 of the 1997 Constitution and Article. Ten press laws. Until this, ladies and gentlemen, is broken, let us not hope that anything will change in Poland. In my opinion, Poles should publicly demand from the National Council of Radiophony and Television, from the Polish Press Agency, from the Polish Television to the break of preventive censorship in Poland. Thank you kindly. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-22-sejm-77-5.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-22-sejm-77-5.u38	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you, Mr. Marshal, for the opportunity to make a statement, because today is the 22nd day of February. The date may not be particularly important in the history of Poland or in the history of the world, but for me the date is extremely important, I think one of the most important, because that day my sister Joanna was born. And I have to say that this is... [[Applause]] Thank you. ...my best sister. I only have one, but it doesn't change the fact that she's the best. Little did Sister Joanna marry Luke, who was also born on 22 February. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] And, as we know perfectly well, the institution of the brother-in-law in Poland is also extremely important. So from this point on, I would like to wish my sister Joanna and my brother-in-law Łukasz all the best, and to you and to yourself and to everyone who can listen to this material, so that you always remember that family is the most important. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-22-sejm-77-5.u39	Thank you very much. The High House, of course, joins these wishes. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] That concludes our parliamentary statements. (CEFTA), which significantly facilitates the economic development of the countries of the group. (PIT-37 or/and PIT-38). In view of this great interest in using a trusted profile, I would also like to stress its need and excellent response to the expectations of those interested in dealing with official matters online. Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. [[Voice from the room: Morning went well.]] This concludes the 77th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda for the 78th session of the Sejm, scheduled for 13, 14 and 15 March 2019, will be delivered to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 9 min 51]]
