ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u1	Please take your seats. I would like to inform you that today, at 10.30 p.m., a break will be announced until 1 p.m., but at the same time I inform you ladies and gentlemen of the senators that during this break there will be a fee meeting for senators and employees of the Senate Office, in room 217, from 12.00 p.m. We expect prominent guests there and a youth choir from abroad. Please take part in the participation of both the senators and the employees of the firm. We return to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Public Collective Transport Act. I would like to remind you that yesterday, before the break in the session, the rapporteur, Mr Dobkowski, presented the report to the Committee on Infrastructure and answered the senators' questions. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Infrastructure has been authorized to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Yes. You're welcome. Mr Rafał Weber, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u2	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Dear Mr. Senator, Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! We ask you to adopt an urgent and important law, a short but very important amendment to the collective transport law. The amendment concerns the operation of public transport and bus services. In recent years, the practice of extending the operation of these concessions has been so that it was implemented by amending the around budget law. This year we have separated a special bill from the budget bill, which the Sejm had previously leaned over, and today the High Chamber, the Senate, is leaning. I also apologise to all of you for the speedy procedure of the bill, but because of its essence, its urgency and social expectations, we want the law to enter into force on 1 January 2020 and so that the reliefs that hundreds of thousands of Poles each day benefit from can still be companyd by carriers and later compensated by the state budget. The budget of the State for 2020 has provided the amount for reduced journeys, so that we are prepared from the financial side. If this law enters into force before 1 January and becomes effective on 1 January I hope this will happen. It is these reliefs that the carriers will not be disturbed by the company and will be compensated in an undistorted manner, through the marshals' offices, by the Ministry of Finance. I ask the High House to accept this bill. Thank you for the meeting of the Senate Committee on Infrastructure yesterday, thank you for the outcome of the vote. All the senators voted in favour of this bill. I am convinced that the Senate as a whole will do so, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u3	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! Minister! In recent years, the government surprises us with constantly urgent laws, which is due to such a time pressure that, here, there will be no relief that these benefits, reductions will not apply from 1 January, etc. These are, of course, important matters and this cannot be ignored, after all, the powers of those who can exercise these powers cannot be taken away. Previously, there was this law of the. resulting from a specific political context under which it pays for bus transport, it pays a zloty to each kilometer if new lines are created. In all of this, there's chaos, such uncoordinated actions. Is the government working on some kind of comprehensive bill that would organize a public car transport, the one closest to the citizen in small towns, in the countryside? This law was passed five or even six years ago, and then it was suspended. Of course, she's already out of date, so to speak. Well, let's say this bill was used up. Anyway, the entry into force of it has already been moved here in the last few years. Is the government currently working on some comprehensive law that would organise this public transport at this most local level? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u5	Thank you very much. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u6	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the end of the previous term, we have prepared a major amendment to the Collective Transport Act, which in our opinion prepared the organisation of public transport from a legal point of view, especially in areas far from urban clusters. Unfortunately, due to discounting, that project did not fit into the work of the Permanent Committee of the Council of Ministers and was not adopted by the Council of Ministers. I hope that we will return with this project in 2020 and in such a calm legislative process, with the help of the local government, which we also need to organise public transport in the best way possible. That's what we're gonna do. That's one thing. Secondly, as regards the law adopted in May 2019 under which the Bus Development Fund was established, this law is functioning. The first bus lines, which have been created with the support of this fund, have been operating since September this year, i.e. it is a period of more than 3.5 months. We are at the beginning of the process of restoring local connections throughout Poland. I remind the High House that in the last three decades, between 1990 and 2016, 2017 half a billion cars have disappeared from the Polish transport map, i.e. a lot of bus connections that have been liquidated and which have been extinguished due to the fact that they have not been profitable. We, by creating a development fund for bus transport, transfer funds to recreate these connections, to start the process of restoring those connections that are necessary for the normal functioning of the rural society, a society that is several dozen kilometres away from the big cities, because there we diagnose the biggest problems. The third call under this fund, which ended on 29 November this year, the call for 2020 shows the growing interest of local authorities, municipalities and county authorities. As part of this selection, 265 applications were submitted on the basis of which 1 000 711 bus lines were established, covering 63 million cars per year. So we're at the beginning of this trial. The year 2019, as I said, is the preparation of a legal tool, but also a financial tool and the allocation from the state budget for the current year as well as for the years of subsequent specific financial sums. We want to improve this system, we want to improve this system. After 3.5 months we already have our thoughts as the Ministry of Infrastructure, we have our experiences. Signals are coming mainly from organizers, i.e. local authorities, also signals are coming from operators who are talking about the need to replace the fleet and find another source of funding for the exchange of buses, because we all see the condition of the bus carriers, especially those popular PKS, which in recent years, in recent decades, can be said to have been eliminated. Transport is also suffering...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u7	Excuse me, I have to interrupt the Minister. I would very much ask you to focus on the substance of the answer to the question, because there will be a discussion later and of course the Minister will be able to address the conclusions of the discussion. So we still have it in front of us. The question is short, minute. If I may ask, I ask that the answer be focused on the question and then, in the conclusion of the discussion, you will, of course, be able to speak longer. Half a minute more, Mr. Marshal, I'd like to sacrifice. Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u8	The second problem is the lack of drivers, which are also less and less on the market. To sum up, I would like to say that these are structural problems, such as those that need to be addressed in a systematic manner, and there are problems that can be solved by law or by increasing financial resources. We want to organise collective transport in a systematic manner in 2020 and I hope that we will succeed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u9	Thank you very much. For the second time, Senator Klein, then Senator Lamczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u10	These are very important things... Exactly. ...about which the Minister spoke here. They are indeed extremely interesting, important and necessary. Why is it interrupted... But I think it is. I'll get to the question. That all these actions that the government is taking in this case are chaotic actions resulting from the absence of this fundamental law, which would talk about how local transport will be organised. This could then be imposed on the issue of possible subsidies, replacements of vehicles, etc., but I do not want to talk about it now. So that I would only have a request from the Minister. Because the Minister said that this bill was prepared last year, but for temporary reasons it was not passed a request for the transfer of this project so that we could also get acquainted with it, so that I could get acquainted with it, because I do not know whether others would be interested in this project prepared by your resort.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u11	I think this project is still open and available on the RCL pages. As far as I know, he's still visible there, and you can get back to him, you can read him.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u12	Thank you very much. Senator Lamczyk. Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, Minister... Press the button. Yeah, you gotta press it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u13	Minister, you know very well that all that you are talking about is half measures. However, the transport exclusion in our country is increasing. 14 million It's really a lot. There is no way to get to work, school or health care and is convicted It's just you and me. Public transport doesn't get to them. This is the fourth time we've been working on these reliefs. Every year it is promised that this big bill will be. Could you say that she will enter into force in the first half of the year or in the first quarter? Because it's very important to all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u14	I can say that I will do everything I can to make it 2020 and that it will be in the first half of 2020. However, I do not agree with the senator's statement that the exclusion of communications is increasing. In my opinion, this process has been stopped. Of course, there is still much to be done to ensure that towns, and thus societies, which do not have access to public transport, whether by road or by rail, have it. There is still a lot to do, but we have really started a concrete and evident fight against the exclusion of communication in many areas. Because public transport is one thing, and building a network of roads on which this transport will move is another. And I remind you of the Self-Government Road Fund, which is support for local governments for the modernisation of municipal and district roads. I would like to remind you of PLN 6 billion for 2019 which have already been distributed under this fund. I would like to remind you that the programme of the Self-Government Road Fund is for 10 years, i.e. until 2028, and we want to allocate support to local governments of a total of PLN 36 billion. I remind you of another large program that we are implementing, i.e. the construction of highways and expressways. Soon we'll also show you a project for 100 bypasses. So that the transport organisation itself is one thing, but the creation of road and rail infrastructure And it's been going on for a long time. It's the other one. Therefore, it is unfair and untrue that the exclusion of communication is progressing. With this completely, ladies and gentlemen, I do not agree, because it is not. I agree with the fact that we are at the beginning of the process of public transport re-enactment, okay. Thank you for the votes and the suggestions that will support us in this process, because this is indeed a difficult and complex problem. I hope that we will be able to deal with this problem together in the coming years.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u15	Thank you very much, Minister. No further questions, so... Excuse me, Senator Kołacz-Leszczyńska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u16	Thank you very much. Minister, you were talking about 1 000 711 bus lines and 63 million cars. And could I get direct information on how many local governments have decided to include in this program and use this bus development fund? Because I know that one of the barren conditions is that the money that the state is using involves funding of PLN 4,5 from the local government, and often such amounts are unbearable. I don't even know if it's anymore. Do you think that this co-financing structure might change? Are you also thinking of giving more support to local governments so that they can get involved? And how many local governments have already declared that they will want to participate?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u17	According to the Bus Development Fund Act, we expect only 10% of the local government the contribution to the application, which is submitted to the Marshal's Office for the purpose of obtaining this zloty. The next part should be worked out through tickets, i.e. passengers who use such communication. Of course, it happens. And that's what we see after over 3 months of this project. That this deficit is greater, i.e. the local government must, to put more than 10% into the deficit . However, it also happens that the organizer assumes a deficit at the level, let's say, 1 PLN, but the interest in a given bus line is much bigger and either this deficit is lower in the monthly settlement, or it is not at all there. So it shows a really accurate decision of a given organizer to restore a given communication line, because there is a great interest of passengers, which makes this line not profitable, but even profitable. I hope that, after a longer period of operation of the Bus Development Fund, we will be able to say with greater precision what is the scale of the greater deficit than 1 PLN, but also what is the scale of these connections that have been recreated and not deficit. The point is that we should know just what an in-depth analysis of public transport in our country is. Senator, allow me to answer the second question in writing... There you go. Thank you very much. ...because I don't want to be imprecise about the number of local governments that have benefited from the bus development fund.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u18	Thank you very much. Senator Tyszkiewicz. This is the question stage, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u19	Yeah, yeah. Minister, do you really consult with local governments... Microphone. You have to take the card and... [[Talking in the O.R.]] You'll hear it now. Do you really consult local authorities or local authorities about these activities? Because I came here from the local government for 17 years I have been dealing with local government and public transport and I do not recall that for the last 4 or 5 years you have ever asked us for consultations. I was also the President of the Association of Municipalities of Lubuskie Voivodeship. There was no such consultation. So the question is whether you are consulting these activities. Because the goldware program to every kilometer is a total failure. It's not working. It's not working. The Self-Government Road Fund, Minister, is a multi-annual programme implemented by successive governments, and you attribute these merits to yourselves. No. That's the truth. So I'm going to end with a question -- I'm going to repeat it again -- are you consulting these decisions with local governments? Because I don't know anything about it as a long-term self-government officer.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u20	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u21	The Senator's question could best be answered by Mr Płonka as President of the Management Board of the Polish Districts Association, with which I have talked repeatedly about the development fund for bus transport. I know that he also uses this program as the starost of one of the powiats located in the Silesian Voivodeship. And this is the best example of the fact that we are consulting local governments and, where possible, we are implementing local government proposals. As far as the Fund for Roads is concerned, it has never happened in the history of young Poland, the new Poland, since 1990 that in just one year 6 billion zlotys have gone to local roads - 6 billion zlotys of government resources - and in 2019 we are dealing with this. In 2020 it will be PLN 3 billion 200 million. We are currently as the Ministry of Infrastructure in the process of reading letters that hit from individual voivodships. If they are all prepared without errors, we will hand them over to the Prime Minister for approval. I think that at the beginning of 2020 this decision of the Prime Minister will be approved and the next hundreds of local governments will receive support for the modernisation of municipal and district roads. And I also think that you are able to admit that earlier there was no programme that allowed local governments, especially the poorer ones, to get 80%. the value of the task. The Self-Government Road Fund allows this possibility. I know that the districts in particular are very pleased with this, because it is the counties that have big problems with their contribution to not only road investments, but also other investments. And believe me, the receipt of the Self-Government Road Fund is very positive. There was no such program as the Self-Government Road Fund. So that is the truth about our actions, which we, as the Ministry of Infrastructure, carry out when it comes to the broad fight against communication exclusion. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u22	Senator Komarnicki. There you go. Yet, Mr. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u23	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, you have been speaking for a long time since the Prime Minister of the Republic gave an exposé about 100 bypasses. It's been a while. Would you mind telling me what stage we're in? How many of these bypasses are in the design, and how many are already in the implementation phase?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u24	Thank you. There you go. I can get it in writing. I promised that to my constituents.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u25	I can answer that. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki announced that the 100 bypasses program will be publicly shown within 100 days of the establishment of the government. And I give you my word that it will. We, as the Ministry of Infrastructure, create a map of all the bypasses that are needed in national roads throughout the country. It takes a lot more than 100, that's one. Secondly, we put traffic-related factors, road safety, on this map, in order to make a decision where necessary. Of course, social and economic factors will also be important. I think that January is the month in which the 100 bypasses programme will be shown by your Prime Minister and specific tasks will be identified in the next few years. However, this does not mean that we stop working on the main programme, i.e. the national road construction programme, in which the creation of bypasses is also recorded. Within this programme, concrete bypasses are already being created. The bypass of Stalowa Wola and Niska, the bypass of Sanok, the bypass of Bolkowa, that is the Lower Silesian Voivodeship, and many, many others, which will not be disturbed and will take place within this main program. The 100 bypasses program will cover those bypasses for which no resources have been available until now. We will set up 100 bypasses and provide funding for these projects so that they will be implemented over the next few years. I assure you that, in accordance with the Prime Minister's declaration, Within 100 days of the establishment of the government, we will show the localities where the bypasses will be built.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u26	Thank you. Senator Tyszkiewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u27	Minister, what are the criteria for the allocation of money under the Self-Government Road Fund? Because according to my knowledge, there's a complete discretion of the voivods about who gets the money. There are no criteria. And my question is, are there such criteria and if not, are they planned? And about how much money is spent on the Roads Fund... You know, comparing what happened 30 years ago, 20, 25, and even five years ago, until today, is ridiculous, because spending three billion today and spending them 15 years ago are two worlds at all. So I repeat the question: are there any criteria for granting... Is there any score on the community asking for money? Are there criteria? And second question. Will it really be that every year 3.5 billion PLN will go to local governments, as you promised Prime Minister Morawiecki?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u28	Of course there are criteria. They are defined in the polls announced by the voivodships each year. We're gonna do this bill... Excuse me, where can I find them? In recruitment, which is announced by the office of the voivodship. On the Internet. On the Internet? That's very interesting. This call for 2020 by 16 voivodships was announced around mid-July this year. As I recall, local governments had a month to file an application. Later, the committees appointed by the voivode decided which conclusions... That's very interesting. There's no record of that. ...will be recommended to obtain funding in a given year. I repeat once again: these criteria are defined in the recruitment, which is organized by the voivodship office. I think... Minister, you're not telling the truth. ...I make myself clear and clear... I was the president of the city two months ago and applied. There are no criteria for granting grants to local governments. The criteria are discretionary. I'm saying it with full responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, I encourage everyone to take note of the announcement of the recruitment of individual voivodships. I can assure you that there are criteria to be followed by voivodship committees recommending proposals that should receive funding in a given recruitment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u29	Minister, good. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. But I'd like to ask you about the government criteria. Are there government criteria?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u30	Government criteria? Yes. About that. There aren't any. We are based on recommendations, which are the result of the work of the voivodship committee. Later there is the final approval of the letter which reaches us, in accordance with the law which was adopted by the Sejm, was adopted by the Senate and, as far as I know, was not challenged to the Constitutional Court, so that it is in line with the constitution which you often invoke. These letters shall be approved by the President of the Council of Ministers. So it's discretionary.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Gromek. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u32	Minister, I'm from the government, too. And now I'd like to ask you if you have any information on how many local governments have entered this exclusion project, where there was this co-financing zloty, and how many have resigned. 'Cause I know local governments who tried hard. And I'm not saying politically, I'm just being reasonable. But they had to give up because people wanted to, and then one person took the bus. That's one thing. And secondly, when we are talking about criteria for allocating funds from these 6 billion PLN, our billions, it is glorious that roads are being built, it is glorious that there may be ring-roads, but if there are no rolling stock and there will be no drivers, then the problem will not be solved. And as for the criteria, Mr. Marshal, I'll give you a hint of what the assignment was. Our Zachodniopomorskie voivodship, which has many more kilometres of roads and more inhabitants than the voivodship on the eastern wall, received PLN 170 million, and that voivodship got three hundred and a few million zlotys. And these are the criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u33	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u34	As regards the recruitment of the Self-Government Road Fund in the West Pomeranian Voivodeship, as far as I am concerned, every local government that formally submitted the application received such funding. So that the funds that have been... Yeah, yeah, but did he give up... That'll be a minute. Because you're asking the senator to give up the bus development fund, right? From a project that's been corrected. And they gave up because there was no one to drive. But this is a bus fund. But, Mr. Senator, the next question... At first I refer to the last phase of your speech, i.e. the funds allocated to the voivodship as part of the road fund, the Self-Government Road Fund. I repeat once again: every application submitted by a self-government officer from the Zachodniopomorskie Voivodeship in this second recruitment for 2019 under the Self-Government Road Fund, every application which was formally submitted, received funding. So it can be said that we came up with this money pool granted to the voivodship, because all applications were covered by this funding. Single cases... Now I'm going to question number one. Indeed, there were individual cases of withdrawal from the grant applied for by the local authority concerned. They were the result, as I said earlier, of the absence of a carrier who could carry out such transports. This is related either to the absence of rolling stock with the carrier concerned, or to the absence of drivers who could work for the carrier concerned. Like I said, it's a complex problem, a problem that's been growing for years, a problem that hasn't been solved before. As far as drivers are concerned, I know that the Ministry of National Education diagnosed this problem a few years ago, and now the training of mechanics drivers in vocational schools is at a higher level and more extensive. Nevertheless, I repeat that we will want to create a programme whereby carriers, i.e. operators, who perform services in the context of public service journeys, will be able to raise funds for the exchange of current rolling stock for rolling stock not only more modern, but above all greener and more economical. The utility lines are missionary, as you've noticed. There are lines used by several people and the 50-person bus driveway to these few people is not economical, because the cost of handling such a bus, fuel costs and repairs are much higher than the cost of handling smaller buses. So that we want to encourage carriers to invest in the rolling stock of smaller vehicles, 20-seat buses, minibuses or buses so that they can reduce the costs of operating these services. I hope that this programme of support for the replacement of rolling stock will also be implemented during this term of office.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u35	Thank you. Senator Klein, please. Kleina also signed up for the discussion. Oh, good. It's not now. The next senator will be. Senator Szejnfeld, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u36	Thank you very much. Minister, Piła, a city in northern Wielkopolska, I hope that the minister knows the city is very strategically located in terms of infrastructure, because it lies at the crossroads of very important express roads in this part of Poland... Well, let's hope it's an express one day. It's about S10 and S11. There cross these roads, i.e. the eleven who lead from Silesia to the Coast, and the S10, which leads from Szczecin to Warsaw and beyond. Unfortunately, despite such a strategic position, despite the importance of infrastructure communication, communication lines, there is still no decision on the construction of the Piła ring road, namely Piła Okay, okay, okay, okay, It's supposed to be one bypass. Few of this, recently, on October 31, we learned that work on environmental decisions had been suspended, and this is a sine qua non condition to implement this ring road. I would like to ask the Minister what is the current state and what we can count on as citizens of Northern Wielkopolska, including the Saw, in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u37	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u38	And the S10 expressway, and the S11 expressway are included in the national road construction program. This programme has an outlook until 2025. But we have to be honest, not with all the projects by this year. and because of their current advancement and for financial reasons. 2020 is the year in which we will see how much of the EU budget we will have when it comes to cohesion funds that can be used for road investment. Then we will make a decision which investments in national roads as express roads will be implemented. We want a full network of express roads, not to mention highways, of course. Poland will be covered by 2030. We want nearly 6 000 km of high-speed roads in the next decade not so much to be realized, because at the moment we have 4 000... We want Poland to be part of a network of 6 000 km high-speed roads in 2030. That's our assumption we're making. Of course, the more funding we draw from the national fund to implement these investments, the faster the pace of implementation. We hope that the nearest distribution of European funds, in the period 2021-2027, will be good enough to enable us to make investments such as the S10 expressway and the S11 expressway, also in the vicinity of the Saw. I remember that communication system in the vicinity of the Saw. There, in fact, in the future, two expressways will cross, creating such natural bypasses of this city. We are determined to make these roads, as I said earlier, according to our assumptions and the plan for the implementation of the high-speed roads, follow.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u39	Thank you. I've got eyes on everyone who's willing. Now, Senator Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u40	Thank you very much. Although the law we are debating concerns public collective transport, many projects carried out by the current government are closed on this subject. I have a specific question, such a little extension, about projects for the future. Is it planned to subsidize sections of voivodship roads from the Local Roads Fund according to the criterion of communication exclusion? Why am I talking about this? 'Cause I'm from Southern Podkarpacie, where, until recently, there were areas out of communication. We fought for many years to restore the railway line to the west, from Podkarpacie towards Małopolska, specifically on the Jasło route Blade! Blade! Blade! The Guardians Tarnów Cracow. It worked, but it's not a line where there's continuous traffic, it's a periodic line. And if we could remodel the sections... This criterion is very well chosen: exclusion of communication by poor quality of roads. I'm talking road sections in the South Carpathian area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u41	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u42	Thank you very much. Senator! High Izbo! The Ministry of Infrastructure has done a reconnaissance of needs in recent weeks as regards voivodship roads. We did it with particular emphasis on the diagnosis of peripheral road needs. The conclusions are as follows. Marshal offices in this perspective, which is now ending, but also in the earlier one I am talking about the EU's prospects. In 2007, 2013 and 2014-2020, the funds for road investments were much higher than those for municipal and district authorities. Regional operational programmes provided for a certain financial envelope that was used for the construction of peripheral roads. And it is very good that the Marshals guaranteed themselves the means because they could make such investments. They are indicated further needs by the marshals of voivodships as things to realize and we are wondering whether to meet the needs that they formulate. I do not wish to make final binding declarations at this time, but we are considering such a programme. That's it for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u43	Thank you. Senator Tyszkiewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u44	I would ask you to answer in writing a question relating to the government criteria for granting funds to municipalities. Can I ask you to do that? I'm gonna answer in writing and I can tell you from now on that they come from the Self-Government Road Fund Act... No. Minister, I beg you... Of course, Senator, we will prepare such an answer in writing, there is no problem. It's about score, it's about what you get points for. Thank you very much. Another question. Oh, question. Please, Mr. Senator. Minister, is there any chance that the Ministry will change its strategy to settle competitions from the Self-Government Road Fund in the middle or at the end of the year? Praise the government for extending this year's programme until the end of next year. But can you organize competitions at the beginning of the year so that local governments can carry out their road tasks calmly by the end of the year? That's my question. Because it's a sin repeated every year. You have to select the contractor, you have to do the job, you have to settle it and you don't have time. This year you have postponed your deadline and praise for it. I hope it doesn't interfere in any way with the money granted this year. I have a request on behalf of local governments to decide at the beginning of the year so that we can as local governments carry out tasks. That's the question. Here's another question. Is there any chance of the subsidies we are talking so much about here for urban-rural transport? Why am I talking about this? In fact, in carrying out our mission, I think it was exemplary, in my municipality we built urban-rural transport, thus excluding the possibility of subsidies for rural communities that entered our project. We serve 6 municipalities, only that as urban-rural transport we do not receive any funding from the Marshal's office or this symbolic zloty. And we'd be happy to run lines that are actually scarce, because we have 27 beautiful new buses, we have a whole base, but we can't benefit from this possibility of being co-financed. So the question is: is there any chance that not only municipalities, but also this urban-rural communication could seek such funding? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u45	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u46	Thank you very much, Senator. High Izbo! Well, I answer the first question, this is the additional value of the Self-Government Road Fund, that we do not order local governments to complete the task at the end of the year. Local government officials, according to the law, have 12 months to carry out a one-year task since the signing of the agreement with the regional office. If the agreement is signed in September 2019 and this has taken place in many cases this year, this task must be carried out by September 2020. You're moving this country by a year. And that's the result of that bill. However, from this recruitment, which will be decided by your Prime Minister with the approval of the letter, I hope, in January, the situation will be stabilized as the recruitments will be announced in July. Future recruitment, 2021 recruitment, will be announced in July. It will be a month for local governments to submit applications, then 3 months for the work of the committee of regional offices, then a letter will be sent to the Ministry of Infrastructure. We will still read these letters to see if there are any mistakes, mistakes, in general, and we will address them to the President of the Council of Ministers. I think that the timetable for resolving these proposals at the beginning of a given year will be maintained in the following years and this situation will be stabilised in this respect. But I repeat: the additional value and the new value, as far as the Self-Government Road Fund is concerned, is to settle not in respect of the calendar year, but in respect of 12 months after the signing of the agreement between the Voivodeship Office and the beneficiary, i.e. the local government, for the financing of such a task. As far as the development fund for bus transport is concerned, it now allows the possibility of subsidising rural and urban connections. This is the case if the organizer is an old town of a county which is not a city on the rights of the county. So, the old town of the county, e.g. Stalvowolski, as the organizer of such transport, can create a line between Stalowa Wola and a village 15 However, the president of the city of Stalowa Wola does not have that possibility anymore because he organizes urban communication. Of course she's going out of town, functioning on the so-called. suburban areas. But why didn't such a president of the first law fall under? Well, then we'd have to refund the relief, too, right? Then this amount, which would have to be allocated to urban transport, would have been far greater than the amount foreseen at the moment. That's one thing. And secondly, since transport exists, Of course, thanks to the very large efforts of local governments, I do not deny this, thanks to the very large financial and organisational efforts of local governments. There is no communication exclusion there. We want to play the transport where it's just gone, where it's been destroyed. We want to create transport where there is such a social demand, and there is no bus, no bus, where there is no train, because there are simply no railway lines. This is the primary objective of the Bus Development Fund and this is what we want to focus on first. Can I have a little ad vocem? Just a little bit. Please. Because you didn't understand me at all.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u47	I'll sign you up, Senator. Senator Bladder. I didn't get an answer. Well, a lot of senators are waiting for a question to be asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u48	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Because the discussion's a little... In fact, it's not a discussion, but the questions went in a slightly different direction, so at least I will signal my problem because otherwise they will resent me that I did not present my problem in this room, but also the problem of Senator Matecka from Ostrów Wielkopolski. We're passionately interested... But put it in the form of a question, because we're at the question stage. ...country road 25. How to work on the national road No. 25 on the section Ostrów Wielkopolski Konin and Kalisz bypass?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u49	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u50	Mr. Marshal, I can't help but remember what the work on this section of the road looks like. Well, excuse me. If I may answer in writing... This is the form that the senator will use.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u51	In writing, right? Thank you. And now, Senator Blanket.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, the Self-Government Road Fund has been cited several times. You mentioned that 6 billion zlotys were budgeted this year, and for next year we have 3 billion 200 million zlotys. In order not to go back 30, 15 years ago, please remind us of the budget of the government's local road construction programme in 2015. Do I remember correctly that it was PLN 700.800 million? And my second question. Well, on the side of the Mazowieckie Voivodeship I found a very detailed announcement about the recruitment of applications for funding tasks under the Fund for Self-Government Roads. It counts 36 pages and also refers to public transport laws. Can I presume that similar announcements, including all information, are also on the pages of the voivodship offices in other voivodships? It's just two short questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u53	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u54	Thank you very much. Senator! Ladies and gentlemen! As for question 1, I will give you more values, i.e. values not broken down over the years. Between 2008 and 2015, 5 billion 600 million PLN were allocated to support the construction of local roads, while only in 2019... $5 billion 600 million? Yes, 5 billion 600 million zlotys. For all these years? Yes, 5 billion 600 million zlotys. For seven years? For eight years. And for one year, 2019.... For eight years of crisis. ...we spent 6 billion PLN, which means in one year there was more than in eight years, ladies and gentlemen. This is a comparison of the value of government support in 2008 and 2015 and the value of government support only in 2019. And if you go back only by one year, by 2018, it was PLN 1 billion 300 million, so that already in 2018 this amount was significantly higher than the amounts in the individual years between 2008 and 2018. And in 2017? In 2017, it was... We remember. But do you remember? ...$800 million. Oh, that's right. Exactly. And this year they're already published... This year's contracts are signed and, like I said... But are they spent? They are budgeted, contracts are signed for these tasks. Mr. Senator, you asked about the pace of making and accounting investments. The senator signed up for the question. I'll give him the floor. We have 12 months, here is 12 months to make and settle such an investment. Some investments have already ended, the shorter ones, the less time-consuming ones and the smaller ones, but there are also investments that will be carried out for 12 months after the signing of the agreement, which took place in September or October of this year. They will be executed and settled for 12 months, i.e. until September, October 2020. Well, these measures in these contracts - Yeah, you could say that. - Mm-hmm. They're already consummated. These funds are already transferred to local governments to carry out these tasks, and will be settled when local governments complete these tasks. Next year. Not next year, during those 12 months.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u55	Thank you, Minister. Senator Gorgon-Komor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u56	I am glad that these public transport funds are increasing. I know we're debating public collective transport, but since there are questions in the hall about local roads, I'd like to ask you I can get a written reply. It's about the Beskydy Integration Way. I read on your website with concern that this investment is constantly being postponed, and this road is crucial for the inhabitants of these areas and for the connection between Podbeskidzia and Kraków. I know it says that the expected deadline is 2027. If you don't know, I'm asking you to answer in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u57	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u58	Senator, if I remember correctly, it's in the last few months. I can't tell you whether it was July or August, there was an appeal against the environmental decision... Yes. ...which was released there. If the public is suing an environmental decision, then we as the Ministry of Infrastructure are powerless because we're not... But the complaint's been dropped. ...so to speak, rulers, to settle this complaint, or to... well, we're not taking part in this trial. That is the state of my knowledge at this moment. Of course, we will prepare a written reply. As far as I know, the complaint has been dropped, so that... okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u59	Thank you. Senator Tyszkiewicz. No, I'm not. No? I'm sorry. Your begging has been answered. I'm sorry. Senator Matecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u60	Minister, I would like to ask you a question about another form of public collective transport, namely the high-speed rail. Please tell us what are the further development plans of the high-speed railway, especially on the section connecting Warsaw and Wrocław, passing through Wielkopolska. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u61	I'm not responsible for the railroads in the infrastructure department. It's the railroad. That's not the subject. My main responsibilities are road and transport. I'm sorry I don't know the answer to that question. I'm being honest. Because it's not my department, I can't answer that question in any way.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u62	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions. Thank you, Minister. Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to provide written answers to the questions raised by Senators Tyszkiewicz and Bladder and Senator Gorgon-Komor. And Kołacz-Leszczyńska. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I asked if there were any more questions. No one reported it, right? No, but the written answer... Yeah, that's why I volunteered. I see. Yes, and Senator Kołacz-Leszczyńska... Good. The government representative has committed himself to answering in writing the questions of Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to remind you of the need to sign up with the Senator leading the list of speakers. The senator's speech in the discussion must not last more than 10 minutes, and the signed legislative proposals shall be submitted to the Senate Marshal until the debate is concluded. Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Kleina.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u63	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are currently discussing a very important issue concerning millions of our citizens, especially those who live in extra-metropolitan areas and who must benefit from public collective transport. We are discussing how a young man is supposed to get to school most often in the county city, how a man from the village, a small town, is supposed to get to a larger centre where his place of work is located. These problems have been solved in a fragmented way for several years. Today, as important as the collective public transport bill, we are discussing again in a very narrow... we are not discussing, so to speak, forced to make decisions quickly only in a segmented area, in matters relating to public transport travel payments. These are of course important matters, we do not deny the need to introduce these records so that from 1 January those who have the right to benefit from various kinds of reliefs, can benefit from them, can normally commute to schools, to work, etc. But the organisation of public transport is a much more serious problem. This problem was noticed during the work of the previous governing coalition. In 2010 the Act on collective public transport was passed. She had a very long period of vacathio legis so that local governments, public administrations in different places could prepare for its introduction. It was discussed, analysed, etc. At the beginning of the previous term of office, the PiS decided to move the legislation into practice for many years after it came to power, because every year they moved the entry into force of these provisions, moving the rules in force in this law for many years. And to this day we are in such a situation that every subsequent renovation leads only to the fact that no major problems are solved. So the extra cash for every kilometer, if new transport lines are being organized... Of course, local governments say it's a good thing that it's a good thing, but this is again solving problems in such a way that under the pressure of electoral time, because that's when it happened, some way was invented to run several, several or even several thousand lines that have been abandoned or deficit. It was a way and there is still a way that does not solve the fundamental problems associated with the organisation of public transport. If we all, governing and opposition, looked at how this problem is solved in other countries, even in neighbouring countries, e.g. In the Czech Republic, we know that there is a programme of systematic operation of local government and public administration, so that it is efficient to get there so that it is this well-organized local transport that provides access to larger centres. With us, the minister boasts that he's put the gold in a deficit tour. In practice, this meant in many places that there was an artificially prolonged passage from one or another town just to show that it was a new line, that it was a deficit line, etc. You can't rule like that. I have now found the bill that the Minister was talking about. So there is this new law, new in the sense that it amends the 2010 act on collective public transport. I'm glad he's here. Only that this is not a 2019 law, but, as it is written in its title, it is a 2018 law. So you could have If there was any determination, if there was a desire to do it. This large law, mother's law, has long been passed and we would already know how local transport will be organised, what is the role of state transport companies or most often today municipal, these former PKS, how to operate in this area private carriers within some larger programme, which is organised at the level of the county. None of this was done. The Minister is also telling us here today... I'll get back to that case. We expect for many years that this matter will be dealt with in consultation with local authorities, mainly with district governments, but also that it will be possible that if a city has well-organized urban transport and is able to organise local transport at district level with other municipalities... You can't just because it's got city transport, you can't disable it, you can't allow it to travel to another community. For example. in Lębork there are well-functioning urban communication facilities, they cannot organize This also applies to the project that we see here. Transport together with the municipality of Nowa Wieś, Head and others. Yeah, it's ridiculous. Instead of joining, choosing, turning on all local partners, they are excluded. This is the way to nowhere. This requires a completely different thinking about local transport. Let's leave this on the side. I hope this is done. Second thing. The Minister here said that a great program of local roads in the times of the PiS had been implemented. So here's what I'm gonna say: well, you have to rely a little on the truth. This local road construction programme is a multi-annual programme... Mr. Senator, all the law and justice colleagues have left, and you're still talking to the minister, and we're talking to the minister first. We're also talking to colleagues who... I was talking about the roads. But we're speaking in general. Everyone's gone. Okay, Mr. Senator. Young Senator... I'm watching. Here's the thing. We're saying there was no local roads program. Of course, there were smaller amounts, that's true. There have been other times, other financial opportunities, but saying now that PiS has done some sort of transport revolution in the last four years, road revolution, is missing the truth. I can tell you how many road investments have been abandoned only for political, not substantive, not financial reasons. As a classic example I give the expressway No 6, the Kashubian route from Szczecin to Gdansk. She was built in part, from Szczecin to Koszalin, but only because the decision was made in the days of the Civic Platform government. The General Directorate for Roads and Motorways did not decide to tender for the section from Gdynia towards Szczecin, towards Koszalin. She said let the next government decide on this. And that was the biggest mistake, because no one thought of it then, that the next ones would come and say that for political reasons they were stopping the investment. She was on the sixth place of the road's investment priorities, she was provided with funding, she had everything. Nothing's been done until today. At the moment, an episode of several kilometers from Gdynia to God's Poland is being launched. Not everyone knows where God's field is. I'm just talking about a rule. Yes? There's a route to where the road narrows down, and the transport gets complicated. It's all done in such a way as to de facto make communication even more difficult. It is important to consider how such problems could be solved well. It's always done this way these days... At least all of this raises doubts. I speak this way, so emotional, because the question of transport is extremely close to me. And if somebody says that it's just now that PiS has done so much, that's all... It's just a big scam. Every government in 30 years of free Poland has done more or less and said now that we are great and unusual, is simply Missing the truth. Even today, the minister said... Last year, as the elections were, there were 6 billion PLN for the Self-Government Road Fund, and today they are included in the project 3 billion. It's a lot, but it's not enough for you to be so proud to talk about these things. I don't know how many of these things are together anymore. I would like to say that in 2017 there was probably even less money than during the rule of the Civic Platform. 700 million. It's a small difference. There was, like, 700 million zlotys... Or less. ...in the budget in 2017 or a little more, maybe PLN 1 billion. So... But... Minister, we're talking about scale. It was a similar scale to the one that was in the days of the Civic Platform. Please, let me put it this way, remember this case. We are happy with all the additional resources for local roads. We are very happy about this, but we also say that this program has been implemented for years. The more money we get, the more happy we're gonna be. I strongly encourage this new law, which is still suspended on the RCL website, to discuss with local governments, with NGOs, so that it finally enters into force and that... Thank you, Senator. That's it. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u64	That's a good ending. I'd like the floor of Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u65	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This discussion is taking place by the way. We are talking about relatively small and, it seems, a simple matter, and the discussion is long, emotional and largely substantive. I think that there is no way to solve the problems that arouse emotions here, without good cooperation between local government and government administration. The Minister said at first that the local government was also involved or needed to solve this problem. I'll say it's not either, it's the main contractor, it's a condition. Solutions to the problem. And there is no good atmosphere and good cooperation, so there is also no chance for good results in solving this problem. The Minister said there was a consultation that there was cooperation. He gave here an example of the president of the town union... The farms. ...president of the Polish Districts Association, Mr Andrzej Płonki, an old-fashioned white man. Well, he's not here. I am still the President of the Polish Towns Association and I can authentically say what this cooperation looks like. It doesn't look good, and I would very much like it to improve. In the Commission of the Joint Government and the Local Government, there was a very sharp discussion, e.g. on the local road fund. There was no partnership or fair cooperation. We weren't even able to find out what the list of approved projects was and where they came from. There were even such concerns that, when the Prime Minister approved this list, projects were added which had not been requested. So it's illegible. And I think that if we're gonna achieve results together, we need to change the style of this job. And the effects aren't good. The Minister said there were 1 000 711 applications and 63 million cars a mile. The numbers are impressive, but they need to be applied to your needs. And from this simple conversion, it's less than 100 km per day per line. These are very small connections and rare. That doesn't solve the problem yet. The step is in the right direction - great - but here it was said that the gold surcharge is very little. The Minister said that some lines are profitable and that is why this surcharge is sufficient. I have experience in organizing collective transport and for me these are completely abstract thesis, as especially in rural areas it is difficult to achieve better profitability of lines than in large metropolitan areas. In the area covered by the operation of the Upper Silesian Metropolis, a surcharge to the carzokm from the local government That's about 70%. So how can the profitability of the line be achieved in rural areas? I can't think of anything. And if it's as I know it, then this extra zloty is far too small, especially with poor local governments and not yet by nature rich. So I call for reliable cooperation with partners who want to solve the problem, and these are local governments represented by local governments. And I can also say, authoritarianly, that so far this cooperation is not a partnership and is not satisfactory, so I call for a change. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u66	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u67	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, I won't mind you, especially since there's no one on the other side of the room to talk to. I will really try to focus more on what we can do together regardless of political differences. Minister, there's been a lot of talk about the mission. Believe me, I know what a mission is. By the time the State introduced the "PKS" programme in each municipality, I had long been in the municipality. I did. I built a transport. We bought buses, built a bus station, train stations, stops. And by the time you announced this program, it was already working for us. But I would just like the promises you make to be fulfilled and not punished for our success, because today we are being punished for our success. We, as I said, built the whole transport system, brought 5 rural communities into this, and today, you know, I don't have the guts to look these communes and mayors in the eye, because we got them to build this transport system, so as communes... Because you were talking about the talk. The county also participates in this project, but these municipalities, because they entered our project, were excluded from the possibility of funding both from the provincial office, from the Marshal's office and from your project, will not even get this zloty to every kilometer. So a big request: don't look in such categories as who is the organizer, just look at where these buses arrive. We do not want to benefit from this, Minister, but if you paid to these municipalities, to school transport, if you paid even this zloty to each car, this would benefit these municipalities, not the city. We don't want your money. But why are those municipalities that joined our joint project now being punished for it? Country for another year Because now it's really the substance of this discussion you're translating the entry into force of the law into force, another one, because that's exactly what this debate is about. We are trusting you in 2015 when the Government of Law and Justice announced otherwise the right decision which it wants to make regarding the regulation of transport subsidies... She was right, but it was 2015, and now it's practically 2020. My commune, my town and the surrounding communes, as part of the union we created, stood at the level of the task. And today we're being punished for being a leader. So, why don't you take a look at these communities... 'Cause, you know, maybe next year we'll meet again in this room and maybe we'll be moving it again a year. Why should leaders who do it right be punished for it? Let me recap: don't give us any money, we as a city will manage, just don't punish the municipalities that have entered our joint project. Please pay them or allow them to reach for subsidies from the Marshal's office as well as from the voivodeship. It's such a big request. Now, I'm just gonna take this short for the Self-Government Road Fund, which, by the way, has been so emotionally commented on here. Minister, I am not concerned with the criteria that we will find on the ministerial side, I am concerned with the points awarded after the competition has been decided. The fact that you will write down the criteria, even the most cool ones, before the competition, I am not interested as a former self-government officer, I am interested in the points you have assigned. The point is to make it transparent, so that there is no suspicion, which today is common, that the granting of money for self-government roads is discretionary. Once again, because I don't know if you understand me correctly: please don't send me the criteria, because I will find on the website the criteria that you have been talking about here, also the Senators from PiS, I am interested in criteria and points after the competition has been decided. That's it. So, once again, I'd like to repeat... It's a shame that law and justice colleagues can't hear that. I know what a mission is because I've been carrying out my mission for 17 years. In recent years we have realized You're welcome to New Salt. Beautiful, wonderful transport project, train stations, bus stops. There's information that gets to everyone, and buses that get to remote corners. However, we are being punished for being the leader for standing up to the challenge today. There's a request for the government to change... Maybe he did it unconsciously. I want to be positive. Consider the municipalities and inter-city, urban-rural relationships. Don't pay back to the cities, but pay back to those municipalities that have entered our joint project. That's it. Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u68	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Adam Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u69	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Many criticisms came to the government today. Minister, you've already got to take them on your chest, as you say. But, of course, all these criticisms do not exhaust the actual state of affairs. In fact, in the areas we are talking about, in public transport, and this topic is being discussed today, criticism is widespread. And it is not only from local authorities who represent citizens, residents, those most interested in the solutions that you have proposed, but in such a way that they do not work, but also from entrepreneurs, especially transport entrepreneurs. I have talked to not only the mayors, mayors, city presidents, but also the presidents of carriers, including PKS presidents, about this issue many times, and I have not heard a good word about it. In my opinion, the problem lies, among others, in your opinion. You think you know better than that. What does this reveal? Well, what we see, what kind of debate is here today, practically speaking. There are empty seats on the side of the PiS representatives. But to be more specific, I'm going to say that you don't have a public consultation, you don't meet with the recipients, you don't meet with the recipients of the law that you want to create, even though it's supposed to be for these recipients that you want to create. I think that this situation will not change if you do not change your attitude towards the citizens as well. But I would like to make another point in this discussion, of course related to what we are talking about, especially since I was really concerned about the Minister's appearance in the part where the Minister said that, de facto, as I understand it, you are addicted to funds, or at least a great deal of importance. What do I understand? The European Union funds will be included in your infrastructure and communication plans. But if so, I am already afraid for the future of this communication, including public transport, the development of infrastructure, this municipal, self-government, but also this voivodship, national and express roads and motorways. This is a huge amount of money, and I will tell you frankly, just a little while ago, in quotes, as a Member of the European Parliament, I have not seen such an activity as this, which could read the effectiveness of your action in maintaining a good relationship with the European Union, the European Parliament, the European Commission, the Council. I have not seen effective activity in the mobile package. Well, I have not seen it at all, and I do not see your approach today on the basis of a partnership relationship with the authorities of the European Union in negotiating the budget of the European Union for the next financial perspective, and it will be absolutely fundamental. It's not enough, you're doing everything you can to make sure that Poland loses money so that it doesn't get the money it's possible. It is enough to recall the last European Union summit. Poland, Mr Marshal, is the only country, the only country in the European Union, which recognizes, even though every day from morning to evening from you we hear that we have fantastic development, neutral budget, balancing, etc... You thought that we were the only country that couldn't handle it, that we couldn't achieve the objective of climate neutrality by 2050. I'll tell you honestly, it's actually a shame. It is already difficult to evaluate this and the substance and political, but I, today as a senator of the Republic of Poland, previously a Member of the European Parliament, and before that, a Member at the Sejm and the Minister of our Government, are ashamed. I'd be ashamed of you if I were you. One of Europe's largest countries, the seventh economy in Europe, a country with ambitions to be in the G20, and you tell Europeans that we can't afford it, that we can't afford it, that we can't afford it, that we can't afford it, that we suck, that we can't do anything? Well, I'd like to say that if you say so anyway, then of course the answer will be adequate, among other things. in terms of obtaining an appropriate budget for Poland, the so-called. the Polish envelope in the budget of the European Union, but also as regards specific funds already specific to the environment, climate protection, etc. How to add to this what will probably be the biggest message today, not for Europe, but for the world, so breaking the rule of law, another attempt to turn Poland from this road to the West, from this road to the civilized world of democratic states, back to the East, I do not know, towards Moscow... Today there will be demonstrations throughout the country, also here, under the Polish parliament, against the attempt to destroy the independence of the courts and judicial independence. How do you think the European Union will react when it comes to our negotiating European funds, the European budget, the Polish envelope in the European budget? Is that gonna be a success? Are we forging success with that attitude? We know, of course, that new solutions are being created in the European Parliament, in the European Union, which are expected to force Member States more effectively to comply with the rule of law. One of them will be the financial rhetoric, the more you break the principles of democracy and the rule of law, the more you lose... Well, not you, I'm sorry, we will be losing money because of you for the development of Poland, for the development of Poles and Poles, among others. for these purposes, too, which we have been talking about today. And that's why I was so worried. Because if you depend on the development of infrastructure and communication in Poland, including public communication, on the funds of the European Union, and at the same time do everything you can to ensure that you don't get this money or get less than we can get, it means that there won't be any development that we want. To conclude, I will return to the Minister's reply. As far as this ring road is concerned, I would be very grateful if the Minister gave a written reply, because all the information so far, including today's declaration For which I thank you because it was positive, as if open to the future But they're arguing with each other. Well, for example. I know from Mr Piła, Mr Piotr Głowski, that the environmental decision was to be made this year in 2019, which will soon be over, and that the future information will be that the decision may not be made until 2022. Maybe. So when are the next decisions and when will they be implemented and so on?? This is all done under the slogan ad Kalendas Graecas. That's what we're afraid of. So let's be honest with the citizens, not only the people of the Saw, the Eagle, the Northern Greater Poland, but all those who use the east-west routes, the north-south crossing at the Pile: yes, we will make you this bypass or not, we will not make you this bypass. And let's stop charming people. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u70	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Stanisław Lamczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today we're talking about reliefs. We are temporarily depressed, but the Minister realizes how we all assume that we should It's just... it's... again for the fourth time at the end of the year, and all of these solutions we have been talking about are random, and here we will do nothing if there is not this basic act on collective transport. In 2017, you could have introduced a law that the previous government had prepared, but you did not. We've been waiting for your bill that doesn't exist. We have more and more data, but we know that these funds that are being spent are half measures. Of course, we have to say that if we took all this money into one cash register, it would really work. Well, we are already paying for intercity rail transport, Warsaw Tricity, Warsaw Kraków or Poznań, and these are really big money. And so the local government spends money on bringing the kids to school. In summing up all this money, we could really do a lot, Minister, we could solve a lot of problems. And right now 14 million people are out of communication, they can't get to work, they can't get to school, they can't get to health care, and there's a problem. This relief is a relief, you can say, unfair, because the excluded in communication cannot benefit from it, and as we know... You disagree, but 14 million people are currently excluded. We are happy with local roads, because they are made, but we are also worried about big investments Maybe not the railroad, but the road. Because we know how many companies have come down from construction sites. And here too, the Ministry of Infrastructure lacked the courage to restructure all these investments. Companies have left the squares, at the moment the tenders are being conducted again and these prices will no longer be the same. On the contrary, each executive company will take advantage of the fact that it is the end of the EU spending that time is urgent. There's one more thing I'd like to say. When you talk to companies that just raise these prices for specific tasks, they say that unfortunately they also have to calculate risks, because these risks are not defined, they are ceded all the time to executive companies. The executive company must calculate these risks on its own. Why is it so, Minister, that these risks are not precisely defined, they are not divided in some fair way, so that the costs of implementing the investment are also lower? Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u72	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I'm declaring a recess... And the minister. Ah, Minister. Good. There you go, the Minister has the right to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, I'll try not to take care of you. A lot of time. I have to answer some of the words that have been said here, words that are simply not true, and yet we should be used to telling the truth. Allow me to divide this answer into 2 parts, into the part concerning the Fund for Roads of Local Government. here many issues have been raised and to the part concerning the Development Fund for Bus Transport. I will spare myself an answer on matters relating to the judiciary and climate. There are radical differences between us here, and we are not going to eliminate them in this room, but I can say one thing. Well, I am proud of what Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki negotiated when it comes to reaching the climate neutrality of Poland, I am proud of this exception, which we have obtained in this area, because it will allow us to go through this dry foot and deal with climate issues without economic and social consequences. As I say, ladies and gentlemen, Well, the cameras are all over the place. I am proud of what Mr Mateusz Morawiecki achieved at the last summit, and I am convinced that this is very beneficial for Poland, for the Polish society, for the Polish economy, but also for the European climate, the environment. And now, ladies and gentlemen, transport, because this is the main axis of our discussion. The Bus Development Fund is a new legal and financial tool. Here, from the senator's speech, who was the first to appear, there was a statement that there was some revision of the bill that had been passed earlier, an amendment of the law that existed before. No, ladies and gentlemen, the law that sets up the bus development fund is a new legal and financial tool, new, adopted exactly on 16 May 2019. This was not an amendment of a law, but a new legal and financial tool. I want it to sound very loud here. If we are talking about the extent to which this fund currently covers, it is the scope of the public utility lines, i.e. the scope of mission lines, non-profitable and deficit lines. At the same time, commercial communication is still functioning, i.e. profit-oriented communication, which is cost-effective communication and which does not need financial support. This is the largest core of public communication in Poland, which accounts for about 90% and it continues to function in an undisturbed manner. And the development fund for bus services is designed to help restore inefficient and inefficient communication. That's his primary objective. In response to Senator Tyszkiewicz's voice, I would like to say that first of all we want this support to cover the excluded regions, i.e. those where transport does not reach. We are very happy that there are self-governments, that there are self-governments who took on the responsibility of creating, organizing and later functioning this communication, which currently exists, urban but also urban-rural or suburban. We're very grateful for that. And it's working. At first, we intervene where there is no communication. That's where we want to put the money. We want to support these local governments and those communities that want to recreate such communication, and that is the communication they want to build again. Now, the question of the Self-Government Road Fund. Ladies and gentlemen, the statement has been made, the question of what are the criteria, which are then taken into account after the letter has been approved. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not like that. The letters shall be approved by the signature of the President of the Council of Ministers, in accordance with the Act on the Fund for the Roads of Local Government. There's no prior approval of the letter, there's no such thing. There are 2 stages: there is the first stage, which takes place in the voivodship office, and the second stage, which under the law is the responsibility of the President of the Council of Ministers. And this second stage, putting the signature under the letters, is the approval, which is the word resulting from the bill, is the end of the competition, the end of the selection. Then nothing else happens to these tasks, then these tasks are carried out. Yes? Who and how he assigns... The signature of the Prime Minister is an approval and final decision as regards the Self-Government Road Fund. So that later there are no other criteria that would, however, change such lists. As far as the scale of the Self-Government Road Fund is concerned, you are unable to challenge these figures: 6 billion in 2019, 36 planned until 2028, earlier, between 2008 and 2015, 5 billion 600 million PLN, in 2018 1 billion 300 million PLN. Well, you're not able to challenge these numbers, because these are numbers that reflect reality. And whatever falls from this platform or from the Seymary, it will be a subjective assessment, a subjective opinion, that it is not enough that it is not so, that it may be different. These numbers speak for themselves, they are available, they are public, they can always be reached. And I'm asking you to give justice to the Self-Government Road Fund. And one more thing. In particular, local government officials who sit in this Chamber admit that there has been no support that could have been more than 50% When it comes to government support. According to what criteria? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Oh, you see. Well, there's been no backup before... Gentlemen of the Senators... ...more than 50%. ...the questions are gone. The questions were. Now the Minister says... And at the Self-Government Road Fund... ...and he says what he wants. Please... The Minister is proud, and that's why... And with the Self-Government Road Fund, it's possible to apply sixty. - Seventy. - and up to 80% support for local, municipal and district roads and 80% of the value of the investment. This is, let's say, one of the drawers of the Self-Government Road Fund. Bridges for the regions... This is also implemented with 80% support for eligible expenditure under the Local Roads Fund. Ladies and gentlemen, there was also a suggestion here. I admit that certain decisions with regard to road investments are made in a political manner. Yeah, of course. The government is a government composed of a political group, and what we do is politics. However, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of the discussion in the European Parliament, which took place with regard to Via Carpatia, in principle cutting this discussion, and even not taking it into this body, in terms of the construction and financing of the European expressway strategic for eastern and northern Poland, as well as the south-eastern Poland. Then your political formation didn't even want to discuss it... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...was the cut-off of the discussion by Mrs Pitera and Mr Wałęsa in 2014. In Brussels. However, I would like to say to everyone that Via Carpatia will be realized. Rzeszow and Lublin will be connected by express road in 2022; 12 sections, i.e. All of them, they're in the process of implementation right now. In the years 2025 to 2026 the entire section of Via Carpatia will be completed from the border with Lithuania to the border with Slovakia. And so, it is a political decision of the Government of Law and Justice to implement this strategic investment for Eastern Poland on the northern side and on the southern side. I want to confirm this very strongly. This is a political decision of the Government of Law and Justice, because the previous government... According to what criteria? ...he did everything he could not to do this way. And the best example of this, Dear Lord, is the fact that on one of the episodes between Jasionka and Rzeszow this expressway was built, by your decision, in formula 2 plus 1, i.e. with 1 strip to overtake once on one side. Well, the art of construction says something completely different. No, there's a lot of roads like this... If this is a strategic road, if this is a road where traffic is very high, then it should not be built in such a standard. She shouldn't have. We changed that decision, too. In the previous year, Minister Andrzej Adamczyk decided to work on an investment programme extending this section between Jasionka and Sokołów, so that it would also be covered by standard 2 plus 2, as Via Carpatia would be built over 660 km on the Polish side. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I would like to say that I nevertheless thank you for this discussion. She actually ran beyond this short-changed article in which we want to continue to maintain the relief in terms of public transport, bus transport. I maintain my declaration that the next year is work on a major revision of the collective transport law. The aim is to develop public transport to improve it so that it is still really fought against the exclusion of communication. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u74	Thank you, Minister. I would like to remind you that a government representative has undertaken to provide written answers to questions asked by Senator Tyszkiewicz, Senator Błucher, Senator Gorgon-Komor, Senator Kołacz-Leszczyńska and Senator Szejnfeld. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Dismissed until 1 p.m. Twelve o'clock in the morning. There's a tax meeting at 12:00. And at 1 p.m., after the break, we start at 8 p.m.: the Act on the amendment of the Act on the Social Security System and the Act on the National Tax Administration. [[Adjournment from 10 minutes 45 to 13 minutes 03.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u75	Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, the session is resumed. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Social Security System and the Act on the National Tax Administration. The text of the Act is contained in print No 20 and the Commission's reports In prints Nos 20 A and 20 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz, to submit a report to the committee. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u76	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act amending the Act on Social Insurance and the Act on National Tax Administration was a government project. This law extends the application of the concession introduced by a law called the Small Social Security Office, which made the amount of social security contributions dependent on the amount of income earned by the smallest entrepreneurs. The revised amendment increases the threshold for annual income entitlement to relief and introduces a new criterion, i.e. calculation of current contributions on income earned in the previous year. The Sejm passed the law at its second meeting on 12 December this year, it was transferred to the Senate on 13 December, and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance took the case on 16 December. As a result of the vote, the committee requests that the law be adopted without amendment. The vote resulted in 8 votes in favour, 0 votes against, 0 abstentions. However, this does not mean that there was no discussion on this subject. There were arguments which highlighted not only the obvious advantages of this solution, but also the disadvantages, such as the consequent lower pension benefit for those covered by this relief and the jumping increase in costs of running a small company after a period which entitles to a reduced contribution to the Social Security Office. The result of the vote was unanimous, so that we propose the adoption of a law without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u77	Thank you very much. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Bogusława Orzechowska, to submit a report to the committee. There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u78	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At the meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, a revision of the Act on Social Insurance and the Act on National Tax Administration was considered. The main principles of this law were presented by my predecessor. The Commission discussed this law, among others. there have been doubts that if at the moment the threshold is 120 000 revenue per year, it will be 10,000 per month for entrepreneurs, but in some situations the income of the entrepreneur will be only 1 thousand PLN. There were also doubts about later low pensions. You also spoke to the Minister, who said that the cost of this bill would be PLN 1 billion 300 million and that it is possible to implement it. In order to reduce the abnormal impact on the low ceiling of later retirement, programme 36 out of 60 was introduced, i.e. practically 36 months will apply this low ZUS contribution. There were also doubts raised that the Senators argued that raising the threshold from 60 000 per year to 120 000 per year would be an opportunity for some employers and employees to come out of the so-called. The gray zone. The Commission proposes that the law be adopted without amendment. Four persons voted in favour with one abstention.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u79	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. In the absence of any questions... The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. The Ministry of Development is represented by Minister Marek Niebżak. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Mrs. Marshal, I don't think there's any need after such a good account and after the committee's earlier work. Thank you. Thank you very much. So the senators can now report from a place of no more than a minute of inquiry to a government representative. Do you have questions for a government representative? Yes, there are questions. Therefore, please... Several of you volunteered. The first is Senator Magdalena Loven. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. It's gonna be hard for me to turn to the Minister with my face and talk to the microphone. I'd love to... Minister, could you come over here, please? Thank you very much. Minister, the government, when introducing this bill, had to count on support and senators, and Members, because it is difficult to be opposed to reducing the cost of jobs in the situation of small and micro-entrepreneurs. Yes, we are all in favour, but the Polish insurance system is the system in which we say: the more you retire, the higher it will be. And now, if we want to help small and medium-sized entrepreneurs while thinking about their future, and that's an obligation, I think, we have... I would like to ask whether the government has considered reducing these contributions as it proposes, but at the same time complementing them from the state budget so that today's beneficiaries of lower labour costs can be calm about their pensions. And the second question: is it true, Minister, that regardless of the fact that you are announcing this ZUS as a great success, and for many, I think it will make it easier to do business in 2020 even the lowest will be higher than this year, because it is linked to the lowest national salary? If it increases, it also increases the cost associated with the obligation to pay contributions to pension insurance. So haven't you considered, and isn't it worth thinking about not being a burden in the future? So to add from the state budget to these contributions, so that they do not burden futures, it is true that only after several dozen years of retirement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u81	Thank you very much. Senator, about the first question, I'm going to say that this system is kind of designed. That is to say, this cost, which the rapporteur also referred to, an average annual of 1 billion 300 million, is precisely the cost of a smaller amount of contributions, which, as a result of the entry into force, will be called, a small Social Security Office will appear in the fund and will be supplemented by the state budget. So that's how this system works, that the state has to spend this amount on FUS. But it is also a fact, and I always try, reporting, to emphasize, because this is what honesty requires, that this system works so that, however, the insured people put on their own pension in the future, so that the amount of their contributions depends on their future benefit. And, of course, someone who would now declare that he is using this little ZUS, which is already in force, or who will benefit from the one that is covered by this project, will have to face a lower share in the future. The second question, concerning higher contributions, that is, the so-called one. A lump sum. Yes, the truth is what the senator said. That question was a bit of a confirmation or denial. And it has to be confirmed that as these contributions depend on the average monthly salary... It is a system that has been in operation since 1999 in such a form, and has been designed in this way. And please bear in mind that we are not dealing with a systemic change in social security, but with a certain point exception or with a relief, a reference always voluntary, which I always stress. It's always an entrepreneur's choice. It is not that this is a mandatory solution for the smallest entrepreneurs. So it's not a project that changes the whole system. And that's what this system has been like since 1999; there's an indexing or a connection to the average monthly salary. Therefore, the amount for social security, which today is approximately 904 PLN, will amount to about 992 PLN next year.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u82	Thank you very much. Please ask Senator Jan Filip Libicki for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u83	Thank you very much. Minister, this will be a little bit of a return to the discussion we had at the committee meeting, but I would like to ask that question again. As part of the work on this law, the opinion of the spokesperson for small and medium-sized enterprises appeared, who made 2 comments. He didn't make a proposal for an amendment, but he made two comments. The first one was like this. He proposed the elimination of this income criterion, i.e. those 120 thousand PLN per year, because, as he argued, different types of business are carried out and there may be an economic activity that brings a small profit, but the revenue is relatively large and it is very easy that the amount so to say is exhausted. He therefore proposed, in a letter to the committee, the elimination of this criterion. The second element he proposed was the liquidation of this 36-month period. The Ombudsman proposed that this be a permanent solution. It is so interesting that... I know Minister Abramowicz, also as a parliamentarians of Law and Justice. He doesn't think so. Would you mind referring to his remarks? I'd appreciate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u84	Yes. Maybe I'll start with the second question, sir, if you don't mind. Those 36 months... I can appeal to... It was faithfully reported by the Senators of the rapporteurs. This is linked to this requirement for a minimum pension or pension. If we allowed this little ZUS to be a rule, like, like, like, like, like, 60 months for 60 months... Well, then there would be a situation where there would actually be no practical possibility of developing this minimum pension benefit. Yes? Please note that this project is trying to balance these two interests. Anyone who would like to address this issue seems to me to have these two interests in mind. On the one hand, of course, it is about relieving entrepreneurs from their daily activities, and on the other hand, there is a social security system that needs to be stable at macro level, money must influence it; if they do not influence from contributions, then it simply needs to be financed by the budget. On an individual level like this... each of us, paying our contributions, earning this benefit for ourselves in the future. This system is designed to give everyone a minimum pension. Expanding the fact that, so to speak, to the full time range would mean that these entrepreneurs would simply not be able to earn a benefit even at this minimum level. And that's my answer to that second question, the reason why I have a different opinion here than your spokesperson. And the income criterion. I understand it's about that limit. We must say to ourselves that such limits are always to some extent arbitrary. Right? And one might ask why 120 grand, not 110, 115 or 130 thousand. It is not that you can present some amazing analytical, intellectual justification for these 120 thousand, and for 110 no longer. It's just that there's got to be some kind of cut-off. Here it's 10,000 revenue a month. Looking only at this criterion, which means only on the income... There are more criteria for small ZUS, but let's stick to the subject. This is the criterion that meets about 50% active entrepreneurs included in CEiDG in Poland. Given the current small ZUS, we estimate that there will be an extension of this circle of addressees more than twice. This circle of addressees is estimated at some 300 dozen, 340 thousand entities. As I say, it is a choice, but you can estimate more or less how many will meet all the criteria, not only income, but also others. Well, that's a dozen percent of the total population of CEiDG entrepreneurs we're talking about here. It seems to me that this is not nearly a solution, which is necessarily an exception to the principle, a certain preference or relief. And any increase in this regard simply entails costs. Besides, you have presented this cost fairly in your materials. In the event of an accident, e.g. raising this limit to 500 000 revenue to 1 billion 300 million would be an additional 1 billion 200 million costs, which would have to be transferred from the budget to the fund, because this money would simply not have been in the fund. And that's an explanation of the eligibility criterion for using a small ZUS.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u85	Thank you very much, Minister. And I ask you to ask Senator Marek Borowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u86	Minister, I will go back to this limit of 120 000, but not necessarily in the context of whether or not he should be, because it is obvious that his increase will increase the number of entities, although it can be seen that some very radical increase in costs would not have occurred. But I'm talking about something else. Namely, in fact, Senator Libicki meant this, asking about situations where income is relatively high, while income is very low. And I mean, for example. trade and catering. This solution, this type of solution you are proposing, is good for services above all. It is good for those economic activities where material costs or the purchase of goods which are then sold are relatively low and therefore income is similar to income. However, in commerce, in gastronomy such an income is actually a margin. So this solution essentially eliminates these two areas. However, shouldn't this solution be modified, at least by defining revenue for this type of activity as margins?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u87	Dear Senator, let me put it this way: here, this limit is revenue, and then, when you do, if you say so, overcome... when your income is below this limit, you pay contributions proportional to your income, which is the lower your income, the lower your contribution will be. So that there is a mechanism here to some extent addressed precisely to those companies that are low-income, so let's say they have low margins. Let me put it this way: it is obvious that in various fields of activity, there are different margins in different industries, different profitability. But I'm also gonna admit that I don't know - No, I'm not an expert on social security systems. A social security scheme that would be built in such a way that there are other insurance premiums depending on the industry. And please also remember that margin changes over time and this system would still have to be dynamic enough to, for example. once every 2 and 3 years to check the margins in a given industry and if it increases, then, I understand, there would be a different premium, and if it falls, for some reason there is less profitable given area of activity, it would fall. That would be a real revolution in social security. I think it's probably possible to construct something like this, a model that would take into account different profitability in different industries. But I believe that this would be a solution very, very far away from this system, which is in Poland today, and in fact, extremely complex. Because, as I say, it would be varied due to industries and dynamic over time, because it would take into account changes in margins. Of course, I am aware that there is this issue that you are saying that some industries will benefit more and some less. The same is true of income taxes. But what we're doing here is a rehearsal. just to look at the insurance premium as not only and only the social security mechanism, which it is, of course, and that must be remembered, because this is the second aspect that you always have to have in your head, or the first... well, one of the two social security mechanisms, but also as a burden, hence this proportionality.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u88	I'll ask, actually. Minister, we have not understood each other, but the questions are not the right form of investigation, so I will take the floor in the discussion. Sign me up by the way, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u89	Thank you very much. You're already registered. Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Anthony the Man.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I understand, in various political programs, etc. different periods of suspension of pension contributions arise. But the suspension of the pension contribution at the beginning of the business due to the value of money in time later has huge pension consequences, the amount of pension. Due to the fact that the capital or the written contribution to the ZUS accounts are highly revalorized, they are subject to... I guess it's like... In 2018, the revalorisation of the contribution capital amounted to around 9%. So later on, it'll give you huge amounts of money. Is the government aware, in any analysis, of how this will affect pension benefits in the future? Has this been made clear to these young people? They may be very disappointed. I understand the suspension of the contributions of those who take up work after retirement, i.e. after getting a retirement age. These programs make a lot of sense. Here, the contribution is suspended. Here is the fact that most pensions increase not due to a deferred contribution, because she will still work on these pension accounts by revalorizing in a very short time, in just a few years, only gains from shortening the period of retirement, which is from the age when the contribution is suspended, to the time when the pensioner reaches the statistical age of life expectancy, who takes up his job... It's not there. The benefit resulting from the age difference or the duration of the collection period is significantly higher than that of the cumulative pension contribution. And here it's very big... I think that no one will give up this proposal, but one can think about in the future to increase the budget for this programme to simply double it: not PLN 1 billion 300 million and PLN 2 billion 600 million. It's not that big of a budget. I remember that once, when I was more interested in these issues, a significant amount in the state budget was PLN 300.400 million and this had to be considered. As I realise how much this has changed and how much the budget has increased, I think this is just the beginning of a significant amount in the budget. I think that in the future we need to care not only about those who earn little but also about those who have an entrepreneurial initiative. This is probably the most active part of society and needs to be encouraged to take up business. I think it would pay a lot, including you, to increase this amount. Thank you very much. These are questions, not debates.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u91	Well, Mr. Senator, I can only promise that, in the spirit of other projects carried out in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which is currently called the Ministry of Development, I'm sure we'll be doing OSR ex post. This project is a de facto development of something that is in force and was adopted in 2017. It's like we're gonna... I think we're gonna jump to conclusions. And I don't look at it as a finite trial either. So in this respect, I absolutely agree. Nevertheless, of course, the budgetary reality will always have to be taken into account, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the aspect that comes back from time to time, i.e., well, the need to provide pension security at a certain, at least minimum level. But I'm fully... I can only agree with this demand that entrepreneurship, entrepreneurial people, should be promoted. And then there was this young people's theme. Well, I would just marginally point out that what we're talking about isn't something that's related to age or even start-up. You could probably talk more about relief for start-up, which came into force as part of the business constitution, or about this lower ZUS for 24 months, which has been in force for probably a dozen years now, it seems to me that more or less since the middle of last decade, maybe a little longer. And there is indeed a clear hit on these projects about starting a business. But it's just for the record. As I said, Senator, it is difficult to disagree with the vast majority of your statements. We will certainly study this subject within the framework of the OSR ex post. And we'll get back to the subject, if that's what you're gonna say.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u92	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to ask Senator Adam Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u93	Thank you very much, Marshal. Dear Minister, what businessmen are complaining about, especially the smallest micro-entrepreneurs, small businesses, is an excess of bureaucracy, a huge number of standards, regulations, procedures, responsibilities, conditions. And, speaking of these conditions... Because we are now talking about creating a solution that looks positive, of course, but it also creates further conditions. A small businessman needs to keep an eye on not only his interests, but also his administrative responsibilities, to see if he does not exceed any limits, ceilings, limitations, criteria, etc. They are subject to regulations, obligations or different rights, in any case they are different. For example, I do not know, to keep accounts full or simplified other income criterion, here again we propose another criterion to obtain the right to pay another contribution to ZUS, etc., etc. I'd like to ask, then... It seems to me that one form of simplification, a reduction in bureaucracy would be precisely to eliminate the various types of criteria, ceilings and limits which, depending on the obligation or right of the trader concerned. Which has, what we must stress, a certain status It's got to be done. I ask: since we have a specific definition of micro-enterprises And, of course, the other players: a small company, a medium-sized company, a large company, and these definitions are compatible, and we are deriving them from the law of the European Union, so why not follow this one criterion alone? If you're a small company or an average company, you don't have one or another right, and you have one or another responsibility, but if you're a micro-entrepreneur, whether it's 120 thousand PLN... Why 120 thousand PLN? Someone's gonna say there's gonna be $300,000 or half a million or there's gonna be no limit at all. It is simply that the definition and fulfilment of its criteria by an entity, in this case a small entrepreneur, would be decisive, should be decisive about rights or obligations. Otherwise, we will never simplify the activities of companies, especially those run by individuals. Please note that most of these entrepreneurs I speak safely mostly, although in my opinion everyone, I don't know anyone who doesn't pay contributions on the lowest... On a roar. ...level, and not because these people don't believe... But these questions go on... They have the right not to believe that they will receive sufficient financial security from the state in retirement... Excuse me, Mr. Senator... ...just because I'm almost done. That these people are so de facto the only professional group that... Mr. Senator, one minute... ...works for the rest of his life. Mr. Senator, one minute, please. Thank you. Can we apply Okay, I'm done. One criterion for all, regardless of rights and obligations? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u94	I will answer that question, but before I do, I want to say that I absolutely do not argue with such an idea that we must try to reduce the regulatory burden. Such activities shall be carried out at the Ministry responsible for economic affairs. As far as I'm concerned, the senator had a part in them, too. We did it, for example. this level given in the definition of a small taxpayer, which will soon be linked to just EUR 2 million of sales, also linked to simplified accounting. So we've been doing this in different areas. But let's look here at the definition of a micro-entrepreneur - 2 million euros of sales. Well, actually, it involves... I don't remember exactly, but I think it's about 98 and 99%. all Polish entrepreneurs. Again, this solution would be addressed to practically all Polish entrepreneurs, which would entail a huge cost. In fact, at this point, an exception would become a rule, that is, it would be some completely different insurance system, social security system than what we have today. This is the reason why we do not apply this criterion or the limit in the case of the definition of micro-entrepreneur within the meaning of economic law, within the meaning of Union law. Due to the structure of the Polish economy, this would actually mean that it covers almost all Polish entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u95	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski's question, please. However, I would very much ask you all to... I do not limit the time when it is 2 or 3 minutes, but I would very much ask you to speak a little faster. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u96	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I mean, the coefficient that was in the old method of calculation, and now it's gone. If the law were to enter on 1 January 2020, as was the case in the project, it would not be a problem, but it now enters on 1 February, i.e. in January, I understand, it will still be calculated according to the old rule, and then the coefficient should be given. And the excision, the excision of the mouth. Article 5 and Article 6 18c causes, this factor will not be determined for a given year. Isn't that a mistake when it comes to transitional issues?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u97	Let me put it this way: these are the amendments introduced in the Sejm following the opinion of the Sejm Legislative Office, which, of course, as the senator pointed out, are related to the moment of entry into force. How quickly the Sejm or the Senate works is completely out of control of the Undersecretary of State. In the Seym, at the seym stage, it seemed to Members that February 1 was, say, more realistic. There's no problem here about this transition, so to speak. That is, assuming that the bill will be adopted, signed by the President and will enter into force on 1 February, the situation will look as follows. Entrepreneurs who qualify will simply have to declare on 1 January, in the current legal state, the use of a small ZUS, the one that is currently in force, and from 1 February automatically... I mean, they're gonna have to make a statement later on at some point, but in principle they're gonna automatically move on to this new little ZUS that we have in the project, of course, if it's gonna benefit them. If you don't mind me asking, Mrs. Marshal... What about the last one? Will there be an old-year ratio, or will it be given a new one for 2020 in some way? 'Cause that's what this is about. The old one's gonna be in effect for a month, and the new one... well, assuming these dates are up to date, that's for a month, and that's the next part of the year. It's a new one. He's no longer needed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u98	Thank you very much. Senator Gorgon-Komor's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u99	Thank you very much. I have a brief question about medical practice. We read that VAT-free pursuant to Article. Paragraph 113. 1 and 9 won't be able to use the little ZUS. I'm specifically asking about medical practice because... Medical practice as a category of performance... No, about medical practices, individual specialist medical practices as small enterprises. Thank you. In the sense that I understand that... Can they use the small ZUS in the bill if it enters from February 1st?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u100	Here's what I'm gonna say. Well, if they're accounting... And are they, because I don't know... Are these entities which are exempt from VAT? They are not VAT payers. Well, no, they won't be able to benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, the list of senators wanting to ask questions has been exhausted. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I remind you of the need to enlist with the Senator leading the list of speakers. The senator's speech in the discussion must not last more than 10 minutes. Signed proposals of a legislative nature are submitted by the senators to the Senate marshal until the debate is closed. At the moment there are 2 senators in the vote: Senator Jan Filip Libicki, and then Senator Marek Borowski. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Filip Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u102	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I want to say first that yes, of course, this project is a step in the right direction, undoubtedly. This is a reduction in labour costs. You are expanding a solution, which previously, at least according to the data that are in the project, covered 180 000 entrepreneurs, and now it is said that this new solution, which we are debating today, will cover 320 000 entrepreneurs, if I recall correctly. So this is certainly a step in the right direction. But I have a question, and Senator Kobiak also raised this during our committee meeting. If we really look at the income that could result from this, it will turn out that sometimes or in most cases, as Senator Kobiak said, it may apply to people whose income is 1 thousand or 2 thousand PLN. Right? I myself gave such an example at the committee meeting, I said that I know a Kyrgyz restaurant in Poznań, which will exhaust this limit after 3 or 4 days of operation, a monthly limit. So the question is, shouldn't we take a bolder step? I admit it also at the committee meeting, I say it now and I talk about it in my question I was inspired by the opinion of Minister Abramowicz, because he is simply stating what he thinks these amounts should look like in the coming years. It states that in 2021 it is supposed to be 500 thousand PLN, then 800 thousand PLN, then 1 million PLN, and Mr Abramowicz reminds: the spokesperson of small and medium-sized enterprises urges that since 2024 this limit should not have been at all. And to be honest, until that point, I have been fighting with my thoughts about whether to make an amendment in the spirit of Minister Abramowicz's remarks, but I thought, too, after a long consultation with the representatives of the Legislative Office, Mrs Langner, I would like to thank you very warmly for the effort put into this discussion with me so that we could come to some common opinion on this matter. I'm not gonna make that amendment, though. She was about to go in the spirit of what Minister Abramowicz was talking about, encouraging you to take a slightly bolder step on this matter. And indeed... 'Cause right now, I think, it's more of an entrepreneur who's going to say it. They provide personal services. Right? Well, there's someone like that. The plumber and therefore, in principle, his income is largely income. But anyone who As Senator Borowski rightly said, It is in a slightly different situation. So I can say this in such a way: I do not propose an amendment, but I encourage you to go in this direction with greater determination and generosity. I think we'll meet somewhere, maybe on the outside, so to speak, popularized by my formation, by the Polish People's Party, the idea of voluntary ZUS. I hope that you will be going in this direction and that at some point, favorable for Polish entrepreneurs, we will meet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u103	Thank you very much, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u104	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, any movement that is directed at entrepreneurs, which is designed to make it easier for them and which at the same time finds some support and justification in the financial possibilities It is worthy of support, so here we are discussing the mode of action rather than the idea itself. Indeed, help small entrepreneurs need, that is undoubtedly In particular, those who are starting to acquire customers have to gain markets that bear certain costs. These 2 main costs are the tax and the Social Security Office, or actually the Social Security Office and the tax, except that the tax is dependent on income and it is therefore that if this trader does not achieve at the beginning of the income, then the tax does not pay. Thus, the reduction of tax rates that took place has certainly helped a little, although it is not decisive here. In this respect, of course, the reduction of the rate of the Social Security Office is more beneficial for the entrepreneur, because these rates are practically amount-based. Even if they are parametrically defined, they translate into a certain amount, the lowest amount, the minimum amount to be paid. This isn't the first government that's trying to move in this direction. Of course, in the defined contribution pension system, it has such an effect that it translates later into a lower pension, so the government tries to settle it in such a way that it only applies for three years, so that the money is put in a little bit. Well, of course, when you introduce this kind of solution, it's a problem what to do after 3 years. After 3 years, there is a sudden transition to a higher contribution. Of course, it can be assumed that after 3 years the entrepreneur will develop and this will not be a bigger problem for him. So I think that with all the objections that have been raised, it is difficult to criticise this law from this point of view. On the other hand, this misunderstanding, which happened between us, has manifested itself in what the Minister said, answering my question. You said that different activities have different margins and that, therefore, if this were to depend on the size of the margin, it would be awfully complicated. This is a misunderstanding. It's not that different activities have different margins, it's that there are activities that cover the costs of revenue, e.g. in all production activities, the costs of revenue shall be borne by the ..and there are activities that do not cover costs from revenue, but from margin. Trade is an example. Just because the owner of the store sold the goods for 100 thousand or 200 thousand PLN does not mean that he can spend 200 thousand or 190 thousand for his own use, and that is because he bought the goods he sold, and his actual income is the margin that is of course different, but it does not matter what it is. That's his income. And from this income only he covers the costs, e.g. lighting fees, some local taxes and, of course, wages, if any. Right? Yours first and foremost. Exactly the same applies to gastronomy. And as a result, the limit of 120 grand can be... Of course, I understand some need for a limit for now, although this is a debatable matter. Well, but the limit of 120 grand, let's say, for someone who provides computer services... The cost has a relatively small amount, it is mainly his work, that so to speak, his mind's income is actually close to those 120 thousand and from that income he will now... There is a calculation of how much he will pay this contribution. It will actually be a lower premium than not so long ago universally applicable 60% It means the base of 60%. from the average wage and 30% of the premium. But if we take just the one who's in business or gastronomy, it's not like that anymore. And practically, please, everyone can do it. this is the sum of 120 thousand revenue, that is, the money, in short, in the shop it is 10,000 PLN a month. For 25 working days this is 400 PLN per day. Well, I assure you that although these aren't cresmuses, they have more than 400 zł, but that what they actually have is a margin and this margin is different, depending on the product, but this is 5%, 10%, 20%, that's about within these limits. Therefore, the so formulated provision absolutely eliminates this type of activity, and this is a very common, very common activity, sometimes even the easiest to develop, then of course you can move to other areas. That's why there are two exits here. The first option is that this limit is lifted or significantly increased, and then even if we take the proceeds as revenue, somehow this small activity will fit there. So I said, "We're either putting up with it or we're raising it." The second exit is defined as the margin in the commercial and catering activities, the difference between the purchase and purchase costs of the goods. or raw materials. And if that were the case, this limit of 120 thousand would not have interrupted and would have covered these areas. This isn't a case that we in the Senate can make a mistake with a legislative proposal, and that's why I'm not doing it. However, I want to make it clear that this solution is a solution that eliminates thousands of micro-enterprises, because they are micro-enterprises, very popular and also needed to people. Minister, I know that the Minister is recently, and whatever I know about your high qualifications as well. So maybe it's worth an interest, too? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u105	Thank you very much, Senator. Let me inform you that the list of speakers has been... Oh, I see you're still a senator. Senator Kobiak reporting in. Then please take the floor of the senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u106	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! In some ways, I have been called to the platform, and I will allow myself two sentences to say. Indeed, during the committee meeting, I presented a simple calculation, which would show that it could be used primarily by 1-person companies and two-person companies certainly not, because if one employee had to be paid 5.6 thousand, then there would be nothing left of this limit of 10,000 per month. Also, it cannot be used by people who are involved in trade, catering, my previous speaker clearly explained this. But even if we take the optimal profession, i.e. A plumber or a painter with minimal costs, but some have... Well, because somewhere he's got to have a garage where he keeps his brushes, he's got to have a car to get to work, he's got to put a bookkeeping order somewhere, because he's probably not gonna be able to do it, and there's a lot of cost that's gonna come up. So what he can actually make is the amount of... It would be like he'd be working in a month of two weeks and not anymore because he'd be over 10 grand. And we know the practice. The master will come and say: 'This month I have no limit, so either I will work in black, no bill, or I will come in next month, at the beginning of the month, because then I will still have a limit.' So that in fact this bill will make it a little easier not to pay taxes. Well, if that amount was smaller, it was harder with that limit, and now it's gonna be a little easier. But that's not the point. We're talking about how it's gonna cost. Indeed, if we increase this amount, it will prove that the budget will have to spend more money. But if those entrepreneurs we're talking about, and there's a lot of them, they want to work less in black and more officially, they're gonna pay other taxes. And if they pay it, that money will go into the budget. Therefore, it is not that if we raise the amount, it will immediately affect the budget, because as I said, there will be more official work, legal work, and thus work, from which there will be taxes, and less work in black. And that's the right direction. Let's let these simplest craftsmen work fair and square. Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u107	Thank you very much, Senator. Due to the exhaustion of the list of speakers, the discussion is closed. I inform you that the vote on the bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund. I would remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print no. 12 and the committee's report In print No 12 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Marek Borowski, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u108	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the undoubted privilege of presenting the first legislative initiative of our Senate in this term, any initiative known, known and already promoted. And it is also known to the senators of the previous term, because we adopted a similar document in the previous term. Well, unfortunately, to put it mildly, there wasn't enough time, or maybe a little, and she prefers that bill to be adopted in the Sejm and to close this problem, to solve it. So we're taking it now. Since the project was widely discussed, it was widely discussed in the media as well as, as I said, in the previous term, maybe I will not summarize the whole story here. I will refer only to the main changes made to the joint committee meeting in relation to the project submitted to the Marshal's staff. This project, which was submitted to the Marshal's staff, was shorter, you can say, more laconic, but the subsequent discussion showed that some things have to be added, some things have to be developed. Firstly, according to the draft submitted to the Marshal's staff, persons who would be covered by this law and who could expect to receive an increase in pensions after the application to the Social Insurance Institution would have had to submit the application specified in this Act, namely 3 months, of course, calculated from the entry into force of the Act. The discussion proposed an extension of this to six months, or maybe a year... In the end, however, he has won the conclusion that such a limit should not be imposed at all, since, according to the proposed law, this would be about entitlement and therefore, the citizen to whom it is due should not, in principle, be limited temporarily. All the more so because the persons concerned will certainly want to submit such a request as soon as possible. Secondly, the method of calculating compensation, compensation for the past years, when the insured pensioner, the pensioner, took a pension lower than the pensioner who will now be entitled to it, has been clarified. In the first version of the project this was very brief and could raise some doubts about how this compensation would be calculated. This is already set out in a number of points in the current report and this is very precise. It was also pointed out that there was, as we know, a link between a spouse's pension and a possible family pension if the spouse died. Certainly, in this period between 2013 and the current year, i.e. over a period of 6 years, some number of people who would have been covered by this proposed law died. Of course, today they will not apply for anything and will not claim anything, but in their own time, which is just after their death, their spouses were calculated as a family pension on the basis of this underprivileged pension. Therefore, the draft also includes a provision for a new calculation or conversion of a survivor's pension according to the same rules as that for which a general pension would be converted. Finally, the last proposal that has been taken into account. Such conclusions were also drawn from the Social Insurance Institution at the time. It has a character, I'd say, quite legalistic, formal, but it's needed. Namely, during that time insurances, who were hoping that their cases would be dealt with, filed various kinds of applications, these applications were suspended, dealt with, some went to courts, were suspended in court... Therefore, in order to settle this issue, the last part of our report, this draft law, speaks in a few points about what will happen to all of this. In the event of a decision by the Social Security Office, all these cases will be dismissed. It's defined here. Ladies and gentlemen, the whole thing will be about... This law is commonly referred to as the Act on Retired Persons born in 1953. Of course, they will be an absolutely basic group here, maybe 90%. But this law, in line with the justification of the judgment of the Constitutional Court which dealt with this case in March this year, at the beginning of this year, covers all those who, it can be said, were not able to direct their affairs as they would have wanted, because the rules which entered on 1 January 2013 prevented them from doing so. In other words, if someone took an early retirement pension, they passed in accordance with the provisions in force at that time for early retirement before 1 January 2013 and the retirement age, i.e. the right to a universal pension, was obtained after 1 January 2013. In the middle, between these two dates... The provision of the Act, which was challenged by the Constitutional Tribunal, caused that such pensions were understated. It's gonna be about... It's not gonna be big numbers. This will also apply to men and sometimes women born before 1953 if, due to specific statutory arrangements, they can retire early before 2008. In general, it can be thought that this will apply to about 50,000 people in Poland. Thank you. What I'm trying to say is that the committee accepted it without objection. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u109	Thank you very much, senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I remind you that the applicants also authorized Senator Marek Borowski to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question? Senator Rafał Ambrozik. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Marshal, I'd like you to present the genesis of the year 1953 problem, the first cause of the problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u111	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u112	In 2012 a second major pension reform was introduced with effect from 1 January 2013, at least mainly of which is known for extending the retirement age of men to 67 years in a few years and women to 67 years by 2040. It is worth recalling once again that 28 years were available at that age. This age was to be increased very gradually. The same law also provides that those who have retired early before that date, but also those who will eventually do so later... that those who have retired early for a certain period of time will apply for a common pension, of course after reaching the full retirement age, their pension will be counted in a different way. Namely, early retirement payments will be deducted from the capital they have accumulated. So if you're like... for 5 years they were in early retirement and, of course, monthly those pensions were taken, so they were all counted, deducted from capital and the general pension was calculated on the basis of this reduced capital. This provision entered into force on 1 January 2013 together with the entire Act. The 1999 pension reform, which introduced the principle of a defined contribution That's how much they're gonna put into your account, that's how much you're gonna get your pension. At the same time, she predicted that we would end with the universality of early retirement. Until then, the state may remember, just generally women could retire in fifty-five years of age, and men in sixty, and there were also competitions. And they're still here today. The representatives of which had special powers and could retire even before. That law of 1999 provided that the last year in which early retirement could be transferred was 2008. So there was still some time left, but 2008 was the last year. And the situation was as follows: if, for example, The woman retired in 2007 at the age of 55, 60 reached in 2012 and in 2012 she already knew that there was a law, because this law was passed in June 2012. So in 2012 it was already known that there was such a law and that if she waited for a pension application and filed it in 2013, they would of course deduct these payments from her capital. Therefore, she was able to submit an application earlier and get a pension according to the old rules, i.e. without deduction. And those who retired early in 2008, which was the last year allowed, acquired their retirement age in 2013 when the Act had already entered into force. And it caused that after the application the Social Security Office was not able to charge them with the pension they wanted, but simply had to deduct those payments. So that's what's going on. You can say this particular yearbook. Was that recipe unconstitutional? The idea itself didn't, the idea itself made sense I'm not going to develop it now, if anybody's interested, I'd love to. The idea itself was sensible and necessary, and this provision still applies. However, it has not been noted that there will be a problem with those pensioners and pensioners who will be surprised by this provision. And I would like to say that in 2016 there were petitions on this issue, there was a petition in the Sejm and there was a petition in the Senate. And unfortunately, the government's position was negative at that time, including the majority colleagues and the Sejm, and in the Senate they rejected these petitions, they were not dealt with. If this had been done, maybe this problem would have been solved by now. I think I've discussed the genesis pretty much. If you don't mind, I'd like to ask. Yes. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u113	Mr. Marshal, what is the cost of implementing this law, and did the government inform that a project is being prepared to carry out these obligations on the 50th year of the third year?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u114	As far as cost is concerned, here we have different types of costs related to the whole case, but only some are related to the law as such. Because... what's the situation? There are people who applied for this case not more than five years ago. Other provisions show that if it has not been five years, they may seek to change this pension after the judgment of the Court. And the Social Security Office shall take such requests into account. It's also a cost, of course, but he's not related to this bill. I mean. Even if there wasn't a law, these people would still be applying for it, so that they would get higher pensions. There are people who have been in lower pensions all the time, have never applied and now, after the Court's judgment, make such applications and, of course, receive higher pensions. And it's also a cost, but it's also independent of this bill. As regards those persons who will be able to apply for and obtain higher pensions and compensation through this law, this cost is estimated I say this on the basis of the data of the Social Security Office, because in my time I asked the Social Security Office for data in this field. It is there that we have the cost of compensation, which is one-off, and the cost of increased pensions, which will normally occur every year. The cost of increased pensions is relatively small, that is about 70 million PLN. The cost of compensation is one-off. This is about PLN 440 million. So together it's a little over 500 million zlotys. 70 million zlotys is from an increase in pension and... [[Voice from the room: But a year, not a month?]] No, no, a year, of course, a year. I talk about it every year. As far as the government is concerned, the government has reported that it is working on this bill and intends to file such a bill in the Sejm. Well, we've accepted that for approval. Well, because if the government wants to settle this, then it's more of a cost issue, as I understand it, it doesn't matter, even if I'm wrong about the calculations. Well, well, I can say our initiative was the first. Then we learned about the government initiative. So I can only vouch for it, Mr. Senator, this. And it's our joint effort to make the matter clear. That the slogan that is on the website of the Senate is what the other authorities in noble deeds have encouraged. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u115	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u116	I, somewhat inspired by my previous speaker's question, and a little by the president's answer, have three questions. Mr. Senator, you've talked about this a little bit, but just to sort it out... Is it true that the Constitutional Tribunal has made clear that this greater basis for calculating insured pensions must now be restored? Because today these people have pensions wrongly calculated. Is it true that the government had already declared that this matter would be settled in its legislative proposal, which in fact prevented the legislative process from being completed in the previous term, precisely because of the government project that was to come forward in this regard? And is it true that the government again declared to address this issue when it became public information that the senators of the new term had once again taken a legislative initiative in this area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u117	Well, Mr. Senator, if it wasn't for historical connotations, I'd say three times yes. 3 times yes. I don't have a choice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u118	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Let's hear it.]] Would a government representative like to take the floor on the bill presented? We have a representative of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Minister Marcin Zielenecki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u119	I'm gonna cut it short. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank you for this initiative. This is an initiative aimed at implementing the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 6 March 2019. Senator Borowski has quite detailed the assumptions of this ruling, as well as the legal status and origin of this solution. I would like to complete this statement and, in the context of the questions of Senator Kwiatkowski, to say that the work on the bill was initiated in the previous Senate term. I'm talking about a draft law implementing the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. I would like to say that from the very beginning my resort, the resort of family, work and social policy, at the explicit request of the Senate committee was involved in the work on the bill. We were able to draft a bill without, I would say, various weaknesses of the original version of the project, which was presented by the Senate committee. It was a project, one can say, whose assumptions were accepted by us. With regard to the version of the project which was submitted in the course of the work in the Senate committee or in the Senate committees, because 2 committees dealt with this project, it was a return to the original version, the version from the previous term of office. I am pleased that, as part of your work in the committee, you have modified this project, that some of the solutions I consider wrong have been eliminated from the project. I would like to say that we differ in the matter of time-limit or lack of time-limit, as you propose, for the reporting by the persons concerned by this regulation and this ruling of the Constitutional Court, of applications for the calculation of pensions without the use of a fatal article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1b. During my work in the Senate Committee, I pointed out that the government side was concerned that the errors that were made in 2012 should be corrected as soon as possible in the context of the work and the adoption of a law increasing the retirement age. For this reason, during our work during the previous Senate term, we pointed out that the three-month period proposed by the senators for applying for the conversion of pensions by those injured as a result of that legislative error is too short. We have proposed that the project extends this period to six months, and I have maintained this request during the work of the Senate Committee. As Senator Borowski said, during my work in the Senate Committee, I declared that exactly on 6 December, on that date, we entered the list of legislative work of the government. We started the legislative procedure aimed at launching the government project. I want to declare that in a government project we will propose a six-month deadline for applying for a pension, excluding Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1b bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u120	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator... Rotnica. Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u121	My question will be very brief, and it inspired me to put the last sentence of the Minister to that question. Does this mean that we will have two draft laws at our disposal: one government and the other senate? In the Seym. In the Seym, yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u122	Well, that's what it looks like when it comes to procedure. The state as Senate accepts the project... ...who will then go to the Seym. ...you're filing a senate project. I assume that the work on the government project will continue in parallel, so to speak. I see. ...for parallel work and a good solution will be developed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u123	I see. Can the Minister specify the time limit within which this project will be submitted?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u124	Honestly, like I said, we reacted pretty quickly. On December 6th, an entry was made to the project... We are now, in the legislative procedure, at the stage of intra-ministerial arrangements. After closing this stage and after agreement within the scope of this project we will simply go outside with it to other resorts. This is a matter of inter-ministerial consultation, public consultation. It is difficult for me to say exactly how long the project will be going to the Sejm, but this is, I assume, a rather short perspective, also due to the nature of the project and its importance. We are aware that the ladies of the 1953 yearbook, but also some gentlemen who have stayed, so to speak, affected by this legislative error, are simply waiting for this decision.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u125	I'm sorry to ask you this, but... that means the government wouldn't actually want to agree with a project that will be submitted to the Senate. I don't see any reason for that. If it were okay, it would have been processed before, and here the government...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u126	I didn't say that. I said we wanted the legislative error to be corrected as soon as possible, but we differ. I'm not hiding it. As regards the assumptions or the content of the project. The solution that you are giving as if an unlimited opportunity to repair the damage that has been caused is, from our point of view, a wrong solution. We would like these high-quality benefits to reach the victims as soon as possible and we want a 6-month period... On the one hand, short, but on the other hand, giving them the opportunity to benefit... It's for May, half a year... ...with these possibilities all insured. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u127	Thank you. Stay here, Minister. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u128	Minister, I have some clarification. The Minister said that he would like you to use this term. It was quite short. Is there any chance that this perspective would be so short? I'm asking you a bunch of legislative experiences from the previous term of office. To prepare this project, I don't know, in a week or in two weeks? That's the first question. Could you make a more binding declaration in this regard? Because the term "short" is nevertheless a certain euphemism. And the other. The position of the Ministry is that you are opposed to the unlimited possibility of submitting proposals in this area. In that case, maybe the government, within the framework of its supervisory powers over the Social Insurance Institution, would take the initiative that the Social Security Office will inform all insured persons who have been, by agreement, apologise for such a determination, and will send them written information on how to apply, and preferably prepare such an application and give them the opportunity to submit an already prepared application. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u129	Dear Senator, here's what I'm going to say. I, of course, cannot speak on behalf of other resorts... You pointed out that you had experience in government work during the Senate committee meeting... So that you know very well that it is necessary for the project to be adopted by the Council of Ministers to exhaust the path of inter-ministerial arrangements. As I said, we will make sure that this stage of inter-ministerial arrangements is launched as soon as possible and that this draft law, of course, after public consultation... This is the procedure that is required by legislation, by the Trade Unions and Employers' Organizations Act, about the Council of Social Dialogue. When this mode is exhausted, I can declare it. We will request that these consultations be completed within a shortened period of 21 days provided for by the Act. And the project just goes to the Sejm. That's how I see it, but of course I can't declare that this project will be agreed within a week because I don't know the position of other resorts. We're in the middle of an intra-ministerial arrangement right now. The second question was... ...possibility to exit with an initiative from the Social Insurance Institution to inform all interested... I'm afraid... maybe I'll say two sentences about it. There was talk of a circle of people who will be affected by this project. In the impact assessment, this circle of people has been defined at about 75 thousand. Of course, the assessment of the impact of the regulation on the financial consequences of this project must be based on certain forecasts, on certain assumptions, and we have adopted such assumptions. These assumptions assume that 58% persons from this circle of persons who have been designated by the Constitutional Tribunal in the judgment, i.e. above all, women born in 1953 who have benefited from retirement by the end of 2008 and are covered by the new pension scheme due to the date of birth... We assumed that we would apply for a new pension, in short, without applying this article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1b of the pension law will benefit 58% of people. This new pension, calculated according to the formula of the defined contribution without this fatal provision, will simply be higher. Such assumptions are based on our impact assessment. In this group That's what Senator Borowski told you. There are persons who have different status, i.e. persons who have applied for a pension under new rules and who have been refused by the Social Insurance Institution by an administrative decision to fix a pension without applying this Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1b as well as those who have not applied for, taking into account the existence of that provision. So I can say yes. If we are able to define precisely, and by name, the circle of people to whom these new solutions will apply, I think I can declare If, of course, the Social Insurance Institution will be able to do so That such individual information will be prepared and sent to the interested parties themselves.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u130	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. You're welcome to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u131	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Fastest Path That's what I'm seeing right now. On the assumption that the government would agree to the content proposed in this project, but taking into account the specific time to submit an application Let's assume, six-monthly... the fastest path would be to let this project go to the Sejm as soon as possible, to support it by the government, of course, subject to it, and simply to pass it by the Sejm, to return to the Senate, etc. Minister, the question is this: should we not, however, put this limited time here as an amendment in order to speed up the possibility of proceeding on this project? I remind you that the error is not on our side, it is on the side of the previous coalition government of the Civic Platform and PSL.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u132	I, of course, leave this decision to the High House. This is your senator's decision. However, there is one thing I want to point out, perhaps I should have said this earlier. It so happens that the assessment of the impact of the regulation on the government project, the one we have been working on... sorry, the senate one we worked on in the previous term or with which we worked together, is in line with the impact assessment for this project, which is the subject of today's discussion. Such decisions as are recommended by Senate committees, i.e. decisions to e.g. delete the time limit, give up in general the time limit within which persons injured by the entry into force of that provision could apply for the establishment of a pension and have specific financial implications. Right? The problem is that today, in a situation where the draft proposed by you does not contain a deadline, and you have an impact assessment accompanying this proposal, which takes into account the six-month deadline, there is a discrepancy. I can't do it today. I don't have those calculations. In a responsible manner, state the impact of the regulation proposed by the States in the absence of this six-month deadline. They are also very difficult to measure, because they depend to a large extent on the decisions of the insured themselves, at what point in time Assuming that there will not be such a deadline in the draft law and in the future law There will be individual decisions on the submission of an application for a new pension. So, as I say, it is not just a matter of dispute about whether or not six months, but it is also a question, I would say, of a responsible calculation of the impact of the regulation you are working on.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u133	Thank you. Please, Senator Janusz Bladder.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u134	I'm gonna do it again, Minister, and I'm gonna do it again for my previous speaker. I have the following question: if the project, our Senate, contained a record of 6 months, would the government stop working on its project and put it under the Sejm's deliberations?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u135	That's not what I'm gonna say. Legislative procedure, i.e. Rules of Procedure of the Sejm 'Cause the senate project goes to the Sejm. The Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers also provide that, in the case of such projects, the role of the government is to prepare the official position of the Council of Ministers. So this is, you can say, the form in which the Council of Ministers formally expresses its position in respect of senate projects or parliamentary projects in the Seym. And if that's the case, we're gonna want to take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u136	Thank you very much. Senator Magdalena Loven.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u137	Thank you very much. Minister, before I ask a question, I will answer my colleagues who still have doubts about how the project will be conducted and what the effect of our legislative initiative will be. He'll be very simple. Even if this project goes to the Sejm, there will be an opinion in the government's position that the government is preparing its draft law, and therefore the first reading in the committee that... [[Talking in the O.R.]] And in the committee that will consider this project, there will be a request to wait for the government project and to examine it together with the Senate project, both projects together, as usual in such cases. The government project will be a core project. So as to the concern that the senators will replace the government on this issue... If the government has decided to resolve this problem in favour of those who have been affected by this statutory error, there is no doubt about it. If the government really wants to, because if it says otherwise than it really wants to implement it, then no reservations, changes to the law, withdrawal from the lack of a deadline or the introduction of a deadline will result in the adoption of this law by the Sejm. Let us not doubt that. The question is therefore simple, Minister. You replied to all petitions in 2016, 2017, 2018, until the Constitutional Tribunal closed the case in 2019, referring to the unconstitutionality of those provisions. Given the fact that the government has not yet decided and implemented the Constitutional Tribunal's ruling concerning, for example, the Court of Justice's ruling. the amount of benefits that people who care for adults with disabilities receive, we can wait for this decision throughout the current term. My question is, Minister, do you want to settle this problem or not? Because that's not true, and... the Minister knows perfectly well that it is. I apologize for such a lapidary formulation of the idea of finding an ideology for a thing that is... The absence of a deadline does not change the fact that people who have been injured by an unconstitutional provision have the right to a different way of calculating their pensions, or will submit an application within 1 day and we could assume such a deadline. Or a week after the Act came into force... [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Stanisław Karczewski.]] Senator, I'm sorry, but the question has one minute... Let's let the Minister answer. If you don't mind, I'll finish... I'll allow it. You're welcome. Thank you kindly. You're welcome. I'm just gonna finish my sentence. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Whether this will be one minute after the implementation, after the entry into force of the Act or one week after the entry into force of the Act, whether this will be determined indefinitely, these persons have the right to a different way of calculating their pension. That's 75,000 people in the most extensive case. And the Minister knows that very well. So I'd rather we respect our accomplishments. It's about the people sitting in front of you. And they were honest about the facts, not looking for ideology for matters that weren't worth looking for.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u138	Thank you very much. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u139	I understand you're a senator of insincereness. He didn't accuse me. 'Cause that's how I could take those words. During the committee meeting, I declared that the Council of Ministers, the government, was giving priority to this project. The fact that this project was quickly included in the list of legislative work under the number UB1 It is an expression of priority for this provision or for this project. I'm also paying attention... The senator spoke of it, but this thread also appeared in the earlier statements of the senators. You have been paying attention to petitions that were submitted in 2016 and 2019. I don't want to question, as it were, who made the mistake; we all know very well who passed this terrible recipe. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in our legal system we have something such as the presumption of constitutionality of the rules which are adopted by Parliament. If you saw a change in the position of the Council of Ministers, i.e. before the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, to act in confidence to this presumption of constitutionality of the rules, and precisely after 6 March 2019, to act in cooperation with the Senate, with the Senate, on drawing up a draft law that would correct this legislative error, that is to say, it is the expression that we have considered that this legal situation has changed as a result of the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal and the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1b the pension law to the extent that it violates the principle of citizens' trust in the State is simply incompatible with the Constitution. That's why you changed your position.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u140	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to remind you of the need to sign up with the Senator leading the list of speakers. The senator's speech in the discussion must not last more than 10 minutes. Signed proposals of a legislative nature are submitted by the senators to the Senate marshal until the debate is closed. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u141	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Thank you for this last part of the Minister's statement, which said that the ill art. 25 violates the constitutional principle of citizen's confidence in the State. That's why it's not important today whether it's a government project or a senate project, or - How much does it say? Both projects will meet in the Sejm. From the point of view of Parliament, namely the place of law-making, a situation where a group of citizens has actually been over six months since March 2019, because they know that the way in which pensions are converted is a way that de facto reduces these benefits, that is, a situation where citizens' confidence in the institutions of the state is strained. And of course, it is important when a mistake has been made, it is important in what years there have been petitions, but it is important in the historical dimension. Today, in this dimension, the most important, from the point of view of tens of thousands of people, mostly women... Today, these people know that everyone is already aware that, as a result of the mistake that has been made, a group of citizens has lower benefits than they should receive. Therefore, from the point of view of the Senate, which once again launches a legislative initiative in this area, it is of course extremely important that these work be completed as soon as possible. I do not agree with the statement that whether or not the six-month, three-month period will be written in this law or not will have some fundamental influence, e.g. the financial impact. We know that if there is a deadline, then most of those who can submit an application, this application is submitted. If there is no deadline, in the short term it must be reckoned that budget expenditure will be even smaller, because Poles and Poles often submit different things at the last possible time, and if there is no deadline, it delays the submission of the application rather than accelerates. That is why I agree with Senator Czerwiński here that it seems that for today the fastest path to the adoption of the project is to adopt the Senate project and, of course, to work together whether it is a senate project, if the government with its project did not manage to manage two projects, and the worst possible scenario would be a situation where the government declaration was not made to put ad Kalendas Graecas away, only to look for the best possible solutions would be the basis for delaying legislative work in the Sejm. That is why we take as a good coin the declaration by the Minister that the government is committed to dealing with this matter as quickly as possible and that the situation in which a group of citizens knows that there has been a de facto situation in which public institutions consciously tolerate today that the State is more restrictive than it should be fulfilling its obligation to the benefit of citizens in the form of a lower benefit is an unacceptable situation. It is only to end with wishes that, like the Senate in this area, it should show speed of action, which, I hope, will also confirm today's vote in the plenary room, and so Members and the government will show equally great commitment and speed of action in the Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u142	Thank you very much, Senator. Please, Senator Marek Borowski...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u143	If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal, I will answer in correction mode because my name has been mentioned, and the meaning of my speech and my question was different. I told you that putting a deadline in the bill will speed up the process. That's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u144	Thank you very much, thank you. It was in corrigendum mode. I'm sorry if I misunderstood. Good. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u145	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I do not have much to add, but I would just like to inform the High House that these voices of distrust which have been cast here, the votes concerning the government initiative and whether or not she is going to delay the matter, did not come out of nowhere, only because our project, which was adopted in the previous term, unanimously adopted, which was addressed to the Sejm and was on the agenda of the Sejm So that's where it came from. However, it seems to me that, in this situation, I take into account the Minister's declaration and, in principle, full compliance with the text, because the question of the deadline is not a fundamental issue, it is such a matter on the margin But I think we're gonna get this case over with. And as for the deadline itself, this road would either be like Senator Czerwinski said... But because this project will go to the Sejm, and it will come back from the Sejm. It may come back unchanged, but it will come back, but there is no obstacle to the government in the Sejm, which has a majority, ensuring a change in this project and introducing a deadline, e.g. Six months. And then reporting your own project would be pointless. I know this isn't going to work, but I would encourage the Minister to think that way, to go in this direction, not to delay it, otherwise it will certainly be like Senator Lover said. Our project's gonna be there right before Christmas, I think, or maybe after Christmas... It's up to the marshal when he hits. ...but Marshal Witek will say, well, we'll wait for the government project. Well, we're gonna have to wait, but we don't know how long we're gonna wait. And if you'd accepted amendments to this project during the work of the Sejm committee, then, of course, there would be nothing to wait for, only in January, immediately after, as the classic, six kings, said, we could begin work. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u146	Thank you very much, Senator. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. Does the Minister, the government's representative, want to speak again? Thank you. Thank you. Well, then, ladies and gentlemen, we're done here, and we're not going through with the next one. We're adjourned until 3:00. It's a technical break. Technical? Technical break, six minutes. [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 54 to 15 minutes 00.]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the creation of the Polish Inter-Paramental Union Group. The draft resolution under consideration was submitted by the members of the Senate Bureau and is included in print No 15. According to Art. Article 84 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 of the Senate Rules of Procedure, this draft, after agreement with the clubs and the senate circles, was included on the agenda without first reading. I ask the authorised representative of the applicants, Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski, to present a draft resolution. Please, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u147	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! In accordance with the routine but important decision of the Senate Bureau of the 10th term of office, I present to the High Senate for approval a draft resolution on the establishment of the Polish Inter-Paramental Union Group. The Inter-Paramental Union is the oldest international organisation of parliamentarians. It was founded in 1889. At first, there were several parliaments in it. Today, most democratic parliaments of the world are represented in the Interparliamental Union. Our resolution, which appoints the Polish Interparliamentary Union Group, is important together with a similar resolution adopted by the Polish Parliament. In this way, we are sending representatives of the Senate to the Interparliamental Union. This is due to the fixed and respected years of parity between the upper and lower chambers of the Polish Parliament. I hope that, as in previous years, the cooperation of politicians of different options from both chambers of parliament in an organ which, you can say, represents the Polish parliament on the world stage, will be successful cooperation. This may be borne out by the fact that without major problems parliamentary clubs, represented both in the Seym and in the Senate, agreed that I am sorry that I am using colloquialism about the composition of the Polish delegation. I have the honour to ask the High House, on behalf of the Senate Bureau, to accept the resolution presented in the print on the creation of the Polish Inter-Parliamentary Union Group. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u148	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the authorised representative of applicants. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? There are no volunteers. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft resolution. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. Dismissed until 3:30 p.m. Then there will be a vote. [[Adjournment from 15 minutes 03 to 15 minutes 31.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u149	Please take your seats. We're reconvening. Dear Senators, I would like to inform you that the next third meeting is scheduled for 8 and 9 January 2020. The agenda of this meeting will be provided to you by electronic means, as well as any information that the meeting will not take place. But it will depend on the legislative initiative of the Sejm. Please assume that the sitting will take place. We begin to consider item 11 of the agenda: changes in the membership of the Senate committees. I would remind you that the proposal of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on this matter is included in print No 25. I would ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Andrzej Kobiak, to present a proposal to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u150	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present a proposal from the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on changes in the membership of Senate committees. On the basis of the article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate present the following draft resolution. Resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on changes in the composition of Senate committees. §1. Senate of the Republic of Poland, pursuant to art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, dismisses Senator Paweł Arndt from the Legislative Commission; Senator Halina Bieda from the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration; Senator Marcin Bosacki from the Commission on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad; Senator Jack Bury from the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators; Senator Stanisław Gawłowski from the Commission on Emigration and Communication with Poles abroad; Senator Benjamin Godyla from the Committee on Legal Affairs; Senator Tomasz Grodzki from the Committee on National Defence; Senator Kazimierz Kleina from the Committee on Legal Affairs; Senator Andrzej Kobiak from the Committee on Emigration, Senior and Social Affairs; Senator from the Senator of the Republic of Poland and the European Union; Senator from the Senator of the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Poland; Senator Władysław Komaricki from the Regulatory, Es and Senator of Foreign Affairs and the European Union; Senator from the Senator of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the European Union and the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Senate; Sen and the Senate of the Republic of the Senate of the Republic of the Senate of the Senate of the Senate of the Senate; §2. Senate of the Republic of Poland, pursuant to art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, elects Senator Paweł Arndt to the Committee on Budget and Public Finance; Senator Halina Bieda to the Committee on the Environment; Senator Marcin Bosacki to the Committee on National Defence; Senator Jacek Burego to the Committee on Science, Education and Sport; Senator Stanisław Gawłowski to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and European Union; Senator Andrzej Kobiak to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Affairs; Senator Magdalena Kochan to the Committee on Legal Affairs; Senator Stanisław Karczewski to the Committee on Health; Senator Stanisław Karczewski to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and European Union; Senator Andrzej Kobiak to the Committee on National Defence; Senator Magdalena Kochan to the Commission on Legal Affairs; Senator to the Commission of the State of Economic Affairs and Innovation; Senator to the Commission. If I've twisted someone's name a little bit, I'm so sorry. As you've seen, the list was long. Now I understand why there's always a water carafe here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u151	Thank you. Would any of your senators like to speak on this matter? If not, let us proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on changes in the composition of the Senate committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. I believe that 97 senators voted, 97.. in favour, no one voted against and no one abstained. [[Vote number three.]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on changes in the membership of the Senate committees. We are returning to the second agenda: the Act amending the Solidarity Fund for Disabled Persons Act and some other laws. The meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance took place during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is available in print No 13 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Jan Filip Libicki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u152	Thank you very much. You'll allow the marshal to be on the spot, for a short time. The joint committees at their meeting today have taken a negative view of the proposals to reject the law and to adopt the law without amendments, while they have welcomed the amendments, three of which are legislative and one of which is substantive. One amendment was withdrawn during the plenary debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u153	Thank you very much. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senator rapporteur still want to speak? No. [[Talking in the O.R.]] But funny, according to your intelligence... [[Joy in the gym.]] Mr. Senator, shame on you. So we proceed with the vote. In the first place... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Okay, let me remind you that Senator Jan Filip Libicki has withdrawn his application from point III of item 2 in print no. 13 Z. Does any of your senators want to maintain the withdrawal? No. So we proceed with the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. The vote on the amendments tabled will be held if the previous proposals are rejected. We therefore proceed with the vote on the proposal of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance to reject the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 1 was in favour, 95 against, 1 abstention. [[Vote number four.]] So, in view of the results of the vote, I would like to say that we are voting on Senator Richard Majer's motion to adopt the bill without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. I state that 97 senators voted, 45 were in favour of the bill without amendments, 52 against, no one abstained. [[Vote number five.]] In view of the rejection of the proposal for a law without amendments, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1 confers a general nature on the provisions to which reference is made. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I find that 97 senators voted, 53 were in favour, 44 against, and no one abstained. [[Vote number six.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 2... Now Amendment 3. Amendment 3 makes it possible for these Solidarity Fund funds to be spent on specific tasks, such as government and health programmes aimed at social, occupational or health support for persons with disabilities, support under the Accessibility Fund, as well as financing complementary benefits and costs associated with obtaining and paying them. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. I find that 97 senators voted, 51 were in favour, 45 against, and 1 Senator abstained. [[Vote number 7.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 4 aims to clarify that the Solidarity Fund funds transferred to the separate bank account of the National Health Fund represent the fund's costs, as in the case of funds transferred to the separate bank accounts of the Social Insurance Institution and the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 52 votes against, 45 against, no abstentions. [[Vote number eight.]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 5, as a consequence of the amendments introduced by the Supplementary Provision Act for persons unable to live on their own, also results in the financing of the costs of health benefits related to the issuing of judgments for persons unable to live on their own. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. I find that 96 senators voted, 52 for, 44 against, and no one abstained. [[Vote number nine.]] The amendment was accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. I find that 97 senators voted, 96. in favour, no one opposed, 1 Senator abstained. [[Vote no. 10]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Solidarity Fund for Disabled Persons and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the excise duty Act. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 14 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u154	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission today took note of the effects of work and the committee's meeting, and in plenary, looked at the amendments and adopted the first proposal contained in the table of proposals, i.e. the proposal to reject the law in its entirety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u155	Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senator rapporteur still want to speak? Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Senator Leszek Czarnobaj, Senator Jolanta Hibner and Senator Paweł Arndt submitted their conclusions during the discussion. In addition, the rapporteur for the minority of the committee was Senator Grzegorz Bierecki. I would remind you that a minority of the committee withdrew its conclusions, points III (1) and (4), print No 14 Z. Do any of you senators want to uphold your withdrawn applications? No. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. The vote on the amendments tabled will be held if the previous proposals are rejected. Let me remind you that we are voting on point three. We proceed with the vote on the motion of the senators to reject the bill. Who's in favour? I don't know if this is point three or four. Three. Who's against it? Three, three... Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. I find that 97 senators voted, 51 against, 46 against, and no one abstained. [[Vote number 11.]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the excise duty Act. The bill's been rejected. We are returning to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the law amending the Law amending the Law on excise duty and the Law on customs. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 18 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 97 votes against, no votes against, no abstentions. [[Vote number 12.]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the Law amending the Law on excise duty and the Law on customs. We return to the examination of item 5 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2019. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finance presented a draft resolution in which it asked for an amendment to the Act; Senate printing No 22 A. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the amendment submitted and then on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendment adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendment tabled by the committee. The amendment increases the amount which the Minister responsible for Health can transfer to the National Health Fund reserve fund to PLN 3 billion. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. I find that 97 senators voted, 52. in favour, 45 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 13.]] We therefore proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with the amendment resulting from the amendment adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. [[Vote 14.]] I believe that 97 senators voted, 97.. in favour, no one voted against and no one abstained. In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2019. We return to the examination of item six of the agenda: the Act amending the Retail Tax Act. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 19 A. We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. I state that 97 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting number 15.]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Retail Tax. We return to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Public Collective Transport Act. The Infrastructure Commission presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 21 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I'm asking you to apply... Please report the results. I find that 97 senators voted, 49 for, no one opposed, 48 senators abstained. [[Vote number 16.]] I state in relation to the results of the vote that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Public Collective Transport. The bill is accepted. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Social Security System and the Act on National Tax Administration. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy have presented single-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate prints Nos 20 A and 20 B. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. I find that 97 senators voted, 97. in favour, no one opposed, no one abstained. [[Vote number 17.]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Social Security System and the Act on the National Tax Administration. We return to the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund. I would like to remind you that a report on the draft law was presented to the committee prior to the adjournment and that a discussion was held. We therefore proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would like to remind you that the committees are requesting the Senate to adopt a single bill in print no. 12 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Marek Borowski to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft bill submitted by the committees and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 60 for, 1 against, 35 abstentions. [[Vote 18.]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a bill amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and has adopted a resolution on the introduction of this bill to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Marek Borowski to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We return to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the creation of the Polish Inter-Paramental Union Group. I would like to remind you that a draft resolution was presented before the session was adjourned and that a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. Let me remind you that the draft resolution is included in print 15. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 95 senators in favor, all in favor. [[Vote number 19.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the creation of the Polish Interparliamentary Union Group. I would like to inform you that the agenda for the second Senate meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Would any of your senators like to speak? Mr. Senator Klein. You're welcome. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator, the bleachers are waiting. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Wait a second until everyone... You're gonna have to propose.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u156	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My statement is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. Dear Prime Minister, In mid-November this year, the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation decided to liquidate the Maritime Office in Słupsk as of 1 January 2020. I remind you, it was in mid-November that it surprised not only the workers of the maritime office, but also many inhabitants of the Central Pomerania region, many people involved in the maritime economy. Those who protested led the Prime Minister to decide that the Minister of Maritime Affairs and Shipping had withdrawn from this attempt to liquidate the Maritime Office in Słupsk. We're all happy about it. Unfortunately, two or three weeks later, another draft regulation of the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation appeared in public space, which provides for the liquidation of that office on 1 April 2020. This decision, this project, this attempt to liquidate the maritime office surprises us all, not only the workers of the maritime offices, but also those who are very strongly associated with the maritime economy. It is all the more surprising that in the election campaign representatives of Law and Justice, including the Prime Minister personally, said that such towns as Słupsk and others similar in Poland will be strengthened in various ways, also administratively, that precisely such offices It was mainly the words of Prime Minister Gowin that will be strengthened by the creation of new public administration offices, central government offices. The practice after the election proved to be exactly the opposite of the dust after the election campaign, and the Minister responsible for maritime affairs and shipping proposes that the Maritime Office in Słupsk, which has more than 60 years of tradition, is a strong, strong and important office to eliminate. This liquidation is not preceded by any consultation with the inhabitants of the region, with the environment of those working in the maritime economy. This draft regulation also lacks an essential justification. The Maritime Office in Słupsk is an office which administers more than 170 km of the Polish coast. There are very strong, efficient maritime coast protection services organised in this office. These services, together with the office's staff, carried out a huge number of projects in the past years, the largest of all maritime administrations involved in the protection of the seashore. It is an office which carried out innovative projects, previously unknown in general in the Polish maritime administration and innovative in technical and technological terms. This office simultaneously manages small mid-coastal ports. The Maritime Office in Słupsk has a different specificity than the Maritime Offices in Gdynia and Szczecin, which are mainly directed at serving ports of fundamental importance to the national economy. The problems related to the protection of the seashore are also of a different kind. So the liquidation of this office, which specialized in protecting the sea shores, specialized in managing small seaports, raises doubts at least. We would discuss with this attempt to reorganize the maritime administration in Poland if the Minister responsible for maritime affairs and inland waterway transport presented the overall concept of the functioning of the maritime administration in Poland. But the only argument he's making here is the savings argument. What does that mean? The only savings that can be made in the Maritime Office in Słupsk are the savings of firing workers. So instead of strengthening offices, instead of strengthening these offices in smaller centres, where there are more work-hunting problems, there are fewer career-related problems in public administration, this leads to the liquidation of this office. If the Maritime Office in Słupsk, according to the employees of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping, works badly, is misjudged, if so, it does not result from the fact that this group of hundreds of people working there work badly, but from the fact that the management is weak. The liquidation of a functioning office cannot be a remedy, a way of repairing it. It is better then to change the management of this office. And that is why I ask the Prime Minister to re-examine this matter in order to discuss it in the environment, to propose such changes in the maritime administration, so that they strengthen smaller but strongly experienced centres in the operation of maritime administration, in order to strengthen offices such as the Maritime Office in Słupsk and not to eliminate them. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u157	Thank you very much. Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u158	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My statement is addressed to the Minister of Health, Mr Łukasz Szumowski. Dear Minister, As you know, the issue of the level of public health funding is of paramount importance. In this case, among other things, in 2018, the health ministry concluded an agreement with protesting residents, setting appropriate parameters for the increase of this funding by 2024. However, in the public debate, the implementation of this part of the agreement is criticised once and for all, and there is clearly no agreement between the Ministry and its opponents on the figures and indicators exchanged. Therefore, in order to cut down and clarify these disputes, I kindly request that data be provided on the following amounts of expenditure and costs. Firstly, budgetary expenditure in the part of the budget of the State to which the Minister responsible for Health is responsible. Secondly, the budget expenditure in the Health Protection section in other parts of the State budget and the budget expenditure in other departments of the State budget for the financing of the health insurance contribution. Thirdly, the fund's costs included in the Fund's financial plan excluding State budget appropriations. Fourthly, the costs related to the implementation of post-graduate internships of doctors and dentists and the specialization of doctors, dentists, nurses and midwives. Please provide all of these data for the year 2018 and for the year 2019 and expected execution. Provide data for 2018 as soon as possible and data for 2019 as soon as possible to determine the expected implementation. In the reply to point 1 please specify the approximate time limit for replying to point 2. Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u159	Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u160	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The statement is addressed to the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber. This is a statement on the date of completion of the audit under the heading "Activities of state authorities and institutions and entities organising the financial market vis-à-vis GetBack SA, entities offering its securities and its auditors'. I would like to address the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber because NIK has carried out a check in the so-called. in the GetBack SA case, where it examined how state institutions which should protect consumers in the financial market, including the Financial Supervision Commission, carried out their duties, inter alia. as regards the supervision of securities sold by the company in the context of public offers or bonds sold. The case, given the number of victims More than 10 000, and the value of bonds and securities sold More than PLN 3 billion is extremely important in terms of efficiency of supervisory mechanisms that give people a sense of security when investing in financial markets. The results of the review, extended in relation to the originally planned deadlines for its completion due to reservations made by the controlled entities, are extremely expected by the victims in the so-called. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. They are also expected in view of the risk of similar situations in the future if the errors made in the supervision of GetBack by public authorities cannot be eliminated. In view of the circumstances presented, and also the proposal in this case, which I received, the request of the Council of Creditors GetBack SA in the restructuring, I would like to ask about the final date of the announcement of the NIK audit report in the case of GetBack SA. The second statement I would like to make is a statement to the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration on the measures taken by the Łódź Voivodeship to secure the landfill of hazardous waste [...] in Z. At the site of the hazardous waste dump [...] in Z., dangerous waste is stored, which is not even partially inventoried. The company [...], a formal land user, not only does not carry out remediation activities there, but is also unable to protect the area from the entry of outsiders. NIK's on-the-spot inspection showed that the entry into the site of the site poses a direct threat to health and life due to the presence of the site and the unseen external collapses of the site. The problem has been known for a long time to the voivodship and its services and its subordinate organizational units. This topic was already addressed in April 2018 by the voivodship crisis response team in Łódź Voivodeship. I would like to request detailed information on the actions of the Łódź voivodship undertaken in the context of securing the site, on the forms and principles of cooperation with the President of the city of Z. in order to address this problem, about possible financial support from government funds, e.g. from crisis management funds, in order to secure the site or to prepare actions related to the rehabilitation of the site and other actions undertaken by the Łódź Voivodeship in this regard. At the same time, I would like to inform you that three statements, which are crucial for the functioning of health services, in particular its reforms, and, above all, for achieving a condition in which health care will work better from the point of view of the patient, have been reported to the minutes of today's meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u161	Thank you very much. Especially to the ladies and gentlemen of the senators who are in the Senate for the first time, let me remind you that making a written statement means we're not giving it. The case shall be the same after the declaration has been made and forwarded in writing. All of you are given feedback from the Senate Administration, from the Senate Work Office, what is the further fate of the statement, when the answer is made, etc. I'm handing it over to memory. Please also submit a single statement, because for all you have 5 minutes, unless they are short enough that 2 or 3 can be made within 5 minutes, but this is only on this condition. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u162	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My first statement in this term is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Mateusz Morawiecki. Dear Prime Minister, You are overseeing the activities of local authorities, including their executives, through voivodships throughout the country. I've been watching lately. This mainly applies to the mayors, mayors and city presidents. The disturbing phenomenon of their justification for their inadequacies, as well as their lack of foresight in planning and implementing the budgets of local government units and shifting the effects of their mistakes to the government. In fact, local governments argue, for example. deficiencies in the municipality's cashier with reduced PIT revenues, without informing its residents of the increase in revenues to municipal budgets due to the sealing of the tax system implemented by the Government of Law and Justice. Dear Prime Minister, unfortunately, on the threats of abandoning implementation, e.g. municipal investments do not end. Uncles, mayors and city presidents are starting to look for savings, which arouses outrage and opposition, in the pockets of the weakest, e.g. Bypassing the law, i.e. provisions on labour rights, minimum wage and exclusion of internships from it, imposing in units subordinate to the municipality, e.g. in schools, changes in working conditions and wages e.g. by reducing the full-time employment of non-pedagogical workers to 3/4 jobs. Of course, such a mayor or mayor of the city is arguing his decision, or, in fact, forced agreement, against the government's actions. As a result, not only are the weakest in a perfidious way deprived of their income by action at the border of the law, but they are still being deceived as to the guilty of such a situation. And the new wage agreement for workers, unfortunately, must be accepted, because there is a 1% unemployment rate not everywhere in the province. Dear Prime Minister, how do you see the possibilities of countering this type of behaviour of local executives, in particular fraud that they have distributed? I ask you to react in the framework of supervision that you exercise over the local government, but also with other tools, e.g. in the media realm. With respect, Jerzy Czerwiński, Senator of the Republic of Poland. So first the judges and now the self-government.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-18-senat-02-2.u163	Thank you. This is the last statement. I state that there are currently no messages to read. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the second Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The second sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland X term of office is closed. [[The Marshal hits the Marshal's staff three times.]] [[The sitting is adjourned at 16 minutes 18.]]
