ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u1	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 4:30 p.m., - Public Finance - hour. 6:30 p.m., - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 20, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 8:30. In addition, the following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Carpathian Team - hour. 16, - Parliamentary Firefighters' Team - hour. 6:30 p.m., - Parliamentary Group for: County Hospitals - hour 19. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u2	Thank you very much. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Act on the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities and certain other laws, - on the amendment of the excise duty law. The reports shall be printed in 25 and 24 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. I propose that in discussions on these items on the agenda, the Sejm listen to five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the planned item on the 16th agenda, i.e. The Commission's report on the draft law amending the Social Insurance Act and certain other laws will not be considered as a result of the withdrawal of the bill by applicants. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Parliamentary draft law amending the Solidarity Fund for Disabled Persons Act and some other laws (prints Nos 13, 13-A and 25). I ask Mr Tadeusz Cymanski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u3	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the pleasure and the honour to present to the High House a report by the Committee on Public Finance on the work on the parliamentary bill amending the Solidarity Fund for Disabled Persons and some other laws. That's what your marshal just said to the High House, which is print number 25. My job is to present the course of yesterday's meeting of the Public Finance Committee. In presenting this opinion and its position, I would like to draw attention to a few of the most important points, in my view as rapporteur, to the issues and moments of this discussion. At the very beginning, a request for a public hearing was made. This is a very important proposal, which arouses a lot of emotions, formulated by Members of the opposition, but also strongly supported by the social community. The answer to this request or some reaction was the opinion presented to the High Commission, the opinion by Prof. Szmyt, which in its precise position describes the circumstances, possibilities and conditions that must be met for such a public hearing to take place. And this request was not accepted after the discussion at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finances. In the first part, the environments associated with disabled people took the floor. They were critical voices, but... This must be said very clearly: they expressed first of all concerns, anxiety, dissatisfaction, disappointment, but - what I want to say as rapporteur, by referring to the recordings, to emphasize - there were no voices such as those which unfortunately appeared in the High House and in the discussions between Members, namely the accusations of lying, of fraud, of stealing. It's a disgrace. The strongest words were not spoken, those that are often on the mouth. It's very important and it's to be verified. Because, indeed, the whole law - in telling the High House - needs to be made clear - is the whole point and the whole point of it is that a mechanism is being introduced, a certain accounting and financial procedure is being put in place to borrow very high loans from other sources - here I am referring mainly to the Demographic Reserve Fund - and then to transfer these funds to the Social Insurance Institution as a reimbursement for the payment of thirteen. It triggers great emotions, but this is the weight, this is the core, this is the topic that was, you can say, number two. In the first part there was a discussion about the situation of the disabled. First of all, it must be said that the discussion also concerned a change of name. Act on the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities, name itself: Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities... At the moment - and this is the essence of this project - when this fund will also be a fund of support or power to a huge crowd of pensioners and pensioners, from its very essence it will cease to be a fund if only the support of the disabled. It will also become a fund of support for pensioners and other people. Hence it is logical to call it the Solidarity Fund. It's the right thing to do. This was also the case in the discussion, and this was referred to. [[Speech outside the microphone.]] The Member does not believe this, but it is possible to see what happened. I'm the rapporteur. I'm the rapporteur, so that's what I'm talking about. Besides, I took the floor myself in this matter, referring just to the roots, to the originals, to the sources of this law. Let us remember this - and this must be very emphasized - that the whole topic came up in the course of protests, very hot, loud, spectacular, strong, here in the Seym. It was then that the Prime Minister proposed and introduced, with an iron consequence, a tribute called Yanosik, a solidarity tribute, i.e. a tax of 4% on revenues of over PLN 1 million. This resulted in an amount of over PLN 1 billion. That's how the story started. It was then that word came from the Seym Court that if these measures were not enough, we would be looking for other sources of support so that the planned, announced and fulfilled commitments towards the disabled could be fulfilled and become reality. Now, in this situation, there is disappointment and there are critical assessments. The disabled community is aware, and we agree that the needs are far greater, but Minister Stanisław Szwed, present in the Chamber at the moment, having responded to this discussion, to the raised arguments, used very concrete, hard data. He mentioned that the global increase in spending on disabled people's goals in the four years that followed, of previous governments, increased by PLN 5 billion, to PLN 19.5 billion this year. Next year it is planned - and this will be shown in the budget - 27 billion. Of course, this is a discussion, it may not be satisfactory, but these are facts, which were first and foremost shown as proof that we are not dealing with recognition, taking, not to mention worse, money, funds for the environment of disabled people. And I would like to repeat once again, to stress: not one zloty from the solidarity tribute was, is not, and will not be, intended for other purposes, but for those which have been written in the letter and in the idea of these provisions. It's canonical truth, and that's what needs to be said. This may have led to the discussion in the Committee on Public Finance being, in my view, a rapporteur - that is to compare, to check - but better. He was calmer, because the discussion was focussed - I move on to the second part of the report, to very concrete, very technical topics - i.e. concerned the circumstances and circumstances, including technical, financial, budgetary, payment of 13 in 2019. The discussion even went so far that there were questions about who signed this decision to pay 13 pensions and pensions to a 9 million-dollar crowd of pensioners. There were also questions, I have to quote them for the full picture, about what were the rules, what were the conditions, what were and are the details of the loan from the Demographic Reserve Fund. It was also asked about the condition of this fund. It is also a good time to point out to the High House, even if someone doesn't get offended, in the form of education, that this fund, created a few dozen years ago, which was supposed to be a shock absorber fund, a security, a guarantee for these hard times, when we start getting old, and the money in the ZUS is going to be missing, unfortunately, with the effort of all political teams - here we have to say: everyone, all of this can be checked - this fund... Jesus Christ, what's he saying? ...the whole time it wasn't powered, and it was supposed to be powered by a great privatisation. Here, let's smile at each other honestly and let's not pretend to be Greek, we just did, and we do. His greatness... I'm laughing at what you're saying. ...even before, I say it here, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, this loan of 20 billion is a little more than, attention, a one-month payout of pensions in Poland for all pensioners. That gives you an idea of what the reserve is, doesn't it? So we need to be aware of that. We in the finance committee keep going back to what's going on - this is demography, these are different topics - but this is not the subject of my speech, but, by the way, apologizing for this indentation, I signal because it gives an idea and it is also a call to measure words so as not to feel sorry for the terrible blow that a fund has actually met with its original, noble and ambitious function, has stopped long, long before. That's something you have to say to yourself clearly. This is a challenge, and for everyone - what's next. I'd like to move on to the technical things, the most important things. Namely, in the course of the discussion a total of seven proposals were submitted, which were rejected by the finance committee and took the form of minority proposals at the request of the applicants. The authors of the first proposal are Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska and Mr Sławomir Piechota. The author, on the other hand, is now said: the author, the author of the other proposals is Paulina Hennig-Kloska. Madam President, I do not know if she has submitted them. Present. Oh, yes, very nice, hello. A very hardworking, ambitious Member of the Committee on Public Finance. As rapporteur, I can confirm that. To conclude, I would like to thank all the members of the Committee on Public Finance that, working for hours, much, much more than we planned, after difficult moments, we have reached our goal. This was the purpose of the report, which I am now giving to the High House on behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, and I ask this old formula for the High Sejm to approve the attached bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u4	Thank you very much, sir, for this detailed report. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. The floor will first be taken by Mrs Gabriela Masłowska on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u5	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice maintains its position on support for the parliamentary draft law amending the Solidarity Fund for Disabled Persons Act and certain other laws in the version contained in the report of the Committee on Public Finance, together with the legislative amendments adopted there. Once again, it is necessary to stress that the introduction of additional tasks for which funds from the Fund may be spent will not reduce the money available to support people with disabilities. The programmes for disabled people financed by the Fund are guaranteed and the funds for them for 2020 are maintained unchanged and have even been increased in many places. Disability in our Polish culture arouses a feeling of deep compassion and a desire to help. But alien to our culture, the Polish culture is to exploit human misery for party political purposes. And that's what happens in the case of this bill. The opposition, like wolves, jumped on an easy loot, she thinks... Oh, my God. ...becoming the skin of the defenders oppressed by the PiS. I recommend to Poles the hearing of an outrageous meeting of the Sejm devoted to this case the day before yesterday. Hard data that confirm your commitment to the unprecedented scale of the current government to improving the care of disabled people in Poland do not reach you. However, it is positive in all this that representatives of people with disabilities attending the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance have not been able to bear the wave of the hat which the opposition wanted. With calmness, caution presented their concerns, expectations for further assistance. We understand that caring for people with disabilities and their carers requires new forms of help and improvement. This is demonstrated to the highest extent by the current government in October 2018. The Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities, against which you have voted, which is now being incorporated into the skin of oppressed defenders. For example, I will remind you that only nine people voted in favour of setting up this fund from the Civic Platform, from Kukiz - nobody, while from PSL - one person, 10 abstentions, three against, etc. These are your intentions in this respect. The Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities finances the following programmes: Welfare services for people with disabilities in the form of support for municipalities which organise such services - in 2019 we financed this objective by PLN 31.5 million, the budget was planned for PLN 60 million and will be maintained. Restaurant care - municipalities and powiats receive 80% funds for carrying out tasks, i.e. daily and round-the-clock stay, specialist counseling, care, rehabilitation, nutrition, in 2019 23 million PLN was spent on this purpose, 110 million PLN is planned. Medical care centers - PLN 50 million, used PLN 10 million. Disabled person's assistant - PLN 30 million and for 2020 we are planning PLN 80 million. In 2019 we spent PLN 811 million, and for 2020 we are planning to allocate PLN 4.5 billion for this purpose. A letter to the Accessibility Fund, also financed by the fund we are talking about - 40 million PLN. And against such benefits Unfortunately, you were performing, you were just against it all. In addition to this activity of the government, which focuses on this fund, we are dealing with various other forms of assistance: benefits, benefits, grants, day and 24 hours care and activities addressed to this particular group. We do not have enough time to discuss and show this whole range of forms of assistance here (the Bell) to what extent we have increased this, often by several dozen percent in relation to what you have offered in previous years. High Izbo! As the current government is clearly increasing, as has been said, the funds for assistance to the disabled foreseen for 2020, from the amount of PLN 15.5 billion in 2015 to the level of PLN 24 billion. Member, please proceed to the end. ...we can have no doubt - and this is my appeal to Poles - that very consistent, positive actions are being taken in this respect. We report, Your Marshal, two amendments to this project, very beneficial to the interested. One relates to the fact, in one sentence only, that doctors are currently collecting fees from interested persons when issuing certificates of total incapacity for work. Mrs... We want to save them, so in the proposed amendment we write down that these funds will be passed on... Time's up. Mrs... ...to the National Health Fund, through the Solidarity Fund to the NFZ. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u6	Thank you very much, Member. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition will be the first to speak by Mr Sławomir Piechot. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u7	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! We're standing up for the PiS robbed. [[Applause]] Bravo! Yesterday, at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, Members of the PIS argued that black is not black and white is not white. They have argued - and they are also doing so today - that the pushed-up change will not reduce the amount of money spent on helping people with disabilities. Despite the clear and precise statements made by representatives of non-governmental organisations showing a great deal of people still waiting to meet the needs of people with disabilities, from assisted care, to resting, to medical, social and professional rehabilitation. They insisted on their statements despite the clear negative position of the representatives of the two largest trade union centres: OPZZ and NSZZ.Solidarity. Trade union representatives particularly strongly assessed the fiction of the consultation on this project. The members of the PiS argued and insisted, but could not explain, firstly, why the name was changed: the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities to the name: the Solidarity Fund. This change clearly and unambiguously reveals the intentions of the applicants. Following this logic, tax offices can be transformed into offices of solidarity, e.g. im. Mariana Banasia. [[Applause]] Oh! Secondly, why should the fund be paid, paid long ago, because in May of this year, additional pensions and funeral allowances paid? Is there too much money in the opinion of the PiS Members to support people with disabilities... No, it's not much. ...if the fund created to support these specific people is now to take over the tasks of the state budget and the Social Security Office? What is the extraordinary hypocrisy of this move? After all, this fund represents less than 1% annual expenditure of the CSO. So how can an elephant borrow food from an ant? [[Applause]] Why should the fund borrow PLN 9 billion, six times the annual income of the fund? What is the purpose of this public finance manipulation? Why is the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of October 2014 requested by the PiS Members at the time not implemented, despite the passing of five years, ordering equalisation of adult carers' benefits with disabilities? In this regard, Mr Stanisław Szwed, Deputy Minister of State, represented Mr PiS MEPs. Why there are no plans to increase even to the level of care provision for early retirement, so-called. EWK, and other similar benefits for carers with disabilities? Finally, why is this project considered only in the Committee on Public Finance, although it concerns an obvious and extremely sensitive social issue? The meeting of the Public Finance Commission showed that white is white and black is black. The PiS takes money from people with disabilities, which is why the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club is demanding that the bill be rejected in its entirety and that this is an appropriate proposal. If our motion to reject the law in its entirety is not accepted, we demand that the article be deleted. One of the draft laws, which is the rule that's supposed to legitimize this robbery. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u8	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition will be the second vote by Mrs Iwona Hartwich. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u9	Respected Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to say that I'm not a wolf, but I've been the mother of a disabled child for 25 years now. I know what real life looks like in a country like my own. If you do not withdraw from this project, and I ask 18 Members to withdraw from it, you will run out of money for respite care, 500+ for independent people, for professional and social activation, for personal assistant, for equalization of benefits for caretakers of independent persons, as well as for promised equalization of pensions for mothers, for EWK. I just want to say that you can't take credit for the fact that your social security benefits have been raised, because it wasn't on your initiative, it was on mine. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] You cannot boast about the fact that disabled people receive 500 PLN in terms of criterion, I remind you. Therefore, I hope that you will make a Christmas present for people with disabilities and will eliminate this criterion because you have deceived our environment, all Poles. You said you couldn't identify this most needy group, and yet you did. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Then add that money to a starving pension without a criterion. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u10	Thank you very much, Member. On behalf of the parliamentary club, Mrs Beata Maciejewska will speak. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u11	Respected Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Left Coalition Parliamentary Club maintains its position vis-à-vis the project, as well as its negative opinion on the report of the finance committee. We believe that the report of the finance committee is a duplication of a project that we have found harmful and cynical, written in the spirit of creative accounting and conducted without any consultation. The request made by one of our fellow Members at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance to hear... Public. ...public, I'm so sorry, he wasn't even put to the vote. I want to make it very clear that this project is harmful not only for people with disabilities, it not only takes away the opportunity of people with disabilities for independent life, but for carers to rest, but it is harmful for all of us, it is also harmful for financial reasons. Ladies and gentlemen! One article assumes that this project will be able to train money from the Demographic Reserve Fund. This money will be spent on current expenses. One point states that an interest-free loan of 9 billion can be granted from this year onwards. This could mean if these loans were repeated, that within 5 years the Demographic Reserve Fund would disappear the money that was supposed to secure our pensions. This is an example of this safe country that Prime Minister Morawiecki was talking about. It is surprising and dangerous that the Committee on Public Finance supports such pathological solutions. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Left Coalition Parliamentary Club is in favour of rejecting the project in its entirety. As we recognise that he is completely cynical and extremely harmful, we will not make any amendments, but we will support minority proposals. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u12	Thank you very much, Member. On behalf of the parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 Mrs Agnieszka Szczaj. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u13	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present once again the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 on the process of amending the Act on Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities, print No 13. I would point out that we did not really vote in favour of this project a year ago, the project that created this fund. We were right not to trust then that it would be new money, partly taken from the new tax, that there would be support places for people with disabilities, that there would be resting places, that the situation on the labour market would improve, that employers would get refunds when it comes to hiring people with disabilities, and that there would be a number of other proposed solutions. The fact that it would be a weird financial combination, which was about to borrow at the time, because already from the Labour Fund it was going to borrow a loan that, in fact, on a wave of social emotion would be just a cover to collect a new tax, we didn't know yet. We didn't know you had such a plan, a new financial promise, but it turns out that we were right that we didn't vote for it. That is why, over the last four years, we have been proposing major reforms that will actually help not to conspire in finance, but to implement austerity plans in a realistic, simple and clear way. The Labour Fund, with the unemployment that we have at the moment - 12 billion, becomes, as you can see, some loan fund, but further drawn from employers and actually used for purposes for which it was not appointed. No reform of case law. If a reform of the caselaw that was promised had been carried out, there would have been no need to think about and divide disabled people, but in every judgment it would have been advisable to indicate exactly what form of support a person needs, a clear and clear category would have been indicated. Not to mention the reform of the entire pension system, which, as you can see, lies in front of our eyes, although it was supposed to be so wonderful. You have to look for different sources of money, among others. from the demographic reserves, the money that was really to be put aside for future pensions. It's about pensions for young generations that we're cheating again. Strange, creative accounting that really ruins our finances, and it's only fulfilling promises, and it's only once. What are the facts? In that budget there were 5 billion, of which 4.5 billion for compulsory benefits related to 500+. Only 500 million for the various kinds of things we have exchanged: respite care, support in the labour market, care services, including specialist care services. Only 530 million. The current Minister was the head of the PFRON State Fund and knows how many non-governmental organisations each year submit projects that they partially co-finance, ask for money just for all these forms, and leave with nothing, because there is simply no money for good projects that should be financed. So the needs are enormous. Really, the 530 million that were just so symbolically thrown into this budget... We are now increasing this budget to 17 billion. Of course, 13 billion of this is again a loan, a loan from money for future pensions, for future generations, from demographic reserves, which at the moment should be almost the amount of the state budget, and practically zero there. So it's really a big fraud that's been going on for years when it comes to the pension system. At present, we will not continue to support this project because it has not yet been well implemented a year ago and is now being revised and will in no way achieve the objectives set out in the title at the beginning. He's just not gonna do it, because he's gonna have to do it: 500+, 13th pension - 99%. This money will be combined. A little of that, this fund will simply be indebted so that a simple man will ask himself, "Well, who will eventually repay it if each time these benefits are already charged with credit? Those retirees are gonna pay off? Will people with disabilities pay off? Another institution next to a dozen others, about 30 new institutions created to solve the problem. I'm gonna get an extension of the office camera. Not to mention, this fund is going to cost 1,700,000 again in its operation. zł. It's just that kind of money, for somebody's change, but as I asked... I'll go back to Miechów, go back to the Farm of Life, to a few other organizations for which 1,700 thousand, even if we're not there, that's for example. 120 childcare facilities for disabled children. There was no money left for that, and the next institution, which is a combination of loan-creative accounting, the money will be. We're not gonna support this project. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We are in favour of this project being completely rejected. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u14	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke will speak on behalf of the Confederacy Circle. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u15	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Democracy is a totalitarian system in which most can do anything and of course can also commit any injustice. Unlike an autocrat who sometimes has a conscience, because he is a man, most have no conscience, and without any hesitation he takes away one and gives to the other. And only here do we hear such complaints from various groups. It would be good if you got some money, figure out who it came from. We would like it to always be told who was taken the money they were giving. The VAT mobs. In this case, they are being taken away by the disabled, but here it is all about taking one, giving the other and getting some money or making some political profit that some group will vote for us. We are opposed to such practices, and we would like justice to rule rather than democracy. Thank you for your attention. Sosnierz's friend will tell you more. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u16	Thank you very much. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u17	It occurred to me that this economics lesson I was trying to introduce yesterday didn't come along, but on another occasion I'm going to keep trying. Now I just wanted to refer here to the words of Mr.Cymanski, who said earlier that because we changed the name of the fund, it's actually okay. It's like this logic: if someone takes my wallet out of my pocket, it's okay, because it's his wallet right now, so what's the point? [[Applause]] Ha, ha, ha! I also caught such a brilliant thought from Mrs. Masłowska's statement that as a result of this money being borrowed, not only will it not be less, but there will be even more of them there. So I think we all wish that the government would borrow money from us and take it from other funds. Have you read the bill? Read the bill again. There's gonna be a whole line of people who'll be interested in such a wonderful money multiplication operation. The Confederation will vote against. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u18	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, with the addition of the Lewis Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u19	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On 31 May 2019, Minister Elżbieta Rafalska spoke during the acceptance of the programme, which is implemented under the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities, about the need to improve access to care services, that we will deal with this. She said: we will build, open care and residential centers for people with disabilities until the end of 2019 and later in the following years. She said: "We're going to implement the "Buildless Buildings' programme, we're going to help the disabled, more, we're going to help with digital services so that the disabled can have it easier." Minister for the Government of Law and Justice. Today, after six months, the Law and Justice government plans to rob the disabled. That's a lie! You're doing this with great premeditated intent, knowing that this theft takes place in the days of the new governments, after the election campaign in which you promised: we're going to help the disabled. You're doing worse than that. You're sniffing at people with disabilities. You want to give a 13th pension out of money that's for the disabled. You're pursuing a policy that denies the Prime Minister's exposé. From this speaker, Mateusz Morawiecki said a few days ago: we will defend normality. Is normal for Law and Justice a defense of the disabled or a sting on the disabled? Is the responsibility for the Prime Minister's words, who called his new office through your voices, your responsibility? And I address Mr Tadeusz Cymanski, rapporteur. Tadeusz, I am so humanly asking you, humanly speaking, as a member of the Left, who today defends the disabled... What a socio-tech... ...do you really think you're doing good for Poles, or do you really think you're building responsibility for the state? It is a scandal that in this House you steal from the disabled and give yours. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Don't lie to me.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u20	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. I would like to inform the High House that 28 Members have joined the questions. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. Mr Krzysztof will be the first to ask... Member, I'm just here for a minute... But last but not least, please, sir. There will still be time for the rapporteur. He's not the applicant. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, the Civic Coalition, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u21	Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! Your Marshal... Your marshal is... Your marshal. Let us stick to the Constitution and the provisions of the Act on Implementation of the Member's mandate. Mrs. Marshalkini! Mrs. Marshalkini! Mrs. Marshalkini! Mr President, please respect the will of women. If you respect women, respect their wishes. Please respect the will of women. I do not wish to do so, sir. [[Applause]] Don't interrupt me. Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! Ladies, don't raise your voice, relax a little. Turn off the mic, please. You're insulting the marshal. You don't respect women. Get to the point. Give me a chance. Mr Cymanski! You are talking about this law with such an uproar here, but the fact that we are even debating this law in the Polish Parliament, when this matter should be dealt with long ago, the needs of people with disabilities should be well funded, so that they are well placed to live... All things should be handled well. First of all, the disabled, Mr Cymanski. You'll be fine. I appeal to the voters and voters of Law and Justice: You are jointly responsible for these decisions of the PiS MPs. Where's the question?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u22	Thank you, sir. Mrs Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłocka, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u23	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act indicates the possibility of granting loans from the Labour Fund and the Demographic Reserve Fund, but does not indicate details of this operation, i.e. on the basis of which the loan will be repaid, the cost of handling it, the conditions under which it will be granted, or the sources from which it will be repaid. The lack of such important details calls into question the financial liquidity of both the Labour Fund and the Demographic Reserve Fund. Unfortunately, the Act introduces the dismantling of special-purpose funds. You can, of course, be reminded of the main objectives of these funds, but I hope that the governing party in particular knows them. During yesterday's deliberations of the Committee on Public Finance, representatives of the social side, both of the Social Solidarity Party and of the OPZZ, strongly criticised the intentions of the applicants and the way in which they worked on the bill and considered that a statement of public consultation was fictional. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Government Party! Minister! When will you finally start social dialogue? When are you gonna start talking to the public? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u24	Thank you, Member. Mrs Joanna Frydrych, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u25	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The objective of the Demographic Reserve Fund was to increase the solvency of social security benefits. This fund acts as collateral for the pension fund. Currently, pensions are paid out of current contributions and subsidies to the State budget. The Demographic Reserve Fund may be used but may be used to supplement the pension fund's shortfalls due to demographic reasons and to a non-interest-bearing loan to the pension fund for the current payment of pensions. These were the assumptions of the pension reform. This fund should be powered, not depleted. This law destroys the social security system and the objectives of the Demographic Reserve Fund. The PiS reaches for measures that provide security for pensioners. You deprive pensioners of their sense of security. What are you gonna do when you clear the Demographic Reserve Fund and there's gonna be a financial crisis and there's gonna be no money left to pay pensions out of current contributions? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm gonna ask for an answer because she's waiting for the current and future retirees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u26	Thank you, Member. Ms Anna Wasilewska, the Civic Coalition, will ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u27	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The law introduces a provision, and I quote: "From the resources of the Labour Fund can be granted interest-free loans to the Solidarity Fund to finance expenditure. If the Labour Fund has a surplus, a reduction in contributions for entrepreneurs employing workers would be real support, a reduction in labour costs. Minister! So why are you pulling more money from entrepreneurs? Is that the support of the entrepreneurs you're talking about? I still have a second question, as the law states that the loans will be granted on the basis of the contract concluded. Of course, we don't have a draft agreement, we don't know the terms. Can I at least find out how you plan to return these loans? What is the expected date of repayment to the Labour Fund (the bell) and to the Demographic Reserve Fund? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u28	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u29	High Izbo! The question to the rapporteur, who is eager to give explanations. He might even be able to concentrate for a while. Tadeusz, Tadeusz, it's for you. Thank you, Mr Tadeusz. I'm sorry. Here's the question. How is the Solidarity Fund going to give up a loan to the Demographic Reserve Fund? How? When? How's that? That's question one. On the other hand, the Demographic Reserve Fund can directly support the Social Insurance Fund and has done so several times, as you know. So what's the point of this whole procedure? Why this transfer from the Demographic Reserve Fund to a changed fund called the Solidarity Fund? In other words, why do you reach with your left hand into your right pocket? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] That's the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u30	Thank you very much, sir. The next question will be asked by Iwona Hartwich, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u31	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! To the rapporteur, Mr Tadeusz Cymanski. I don't have orthopedic shoes. Oh, Jesus. I don't have a rehab tournament. No Jesus. I don't have a wheelchair. I've been waiting three months for a pampers refund. I don't have an assistant. I have a starving social pension. I wanted to ask how many more people with disabilities are waiting in Poland so that they can finally live a decent life? How many more times do they have to go out on the streets and protest, demand what's rightfully theirs? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u32	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Janusz Cichoń, Civic Coalition. You're welcome. They don't understand. They just laugh.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u33	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Minister! There's no finance minister. All I can say is that in 2013 we introduced a stable spending rule. She was supposed to be such a foundation for stabilizing public finances. She forced spending to be reduced in fat years, allowing for an increase in spending in lean years. You broke that rule in 2015, loosened it, which allowed you to put you at risk. Now you're going even further because you're skipping the spending rule because that's all this bill does. This is really outrageous. This should be addressed by the spokesperson for public finance discipline and certainly NIK. The question is, will he take care of it? [[Applause]] Call Banas.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u34	Thank you, sir. The next question will be asked by Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u35	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! The quintessence of Mrs Iwona Hartwich's statement on the assassination of the Solidarity Fund is that of Mr Iwona Hartwich. She showed us what was missing. The family minister should explain why these things are missing. The second thing is to explain why you are trying creative accounting, creative accounting on the expenditure rule that we have established. First, the U.S.S. pays 13 pensions, and then you try to pin it on so that the expenses can fit into the rules. I regretted and asked if there was a procedure in place to violate public finance discipline against the Minister of Finance who decided to pay it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And if not, and that was the minister's declaration, today we will ask for such a letter that we are satisfied with the minister's promise. [[Applause]] Don't divide people. Disabled people need money, and such action is an opportunity to drain this fund in the future. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u36	Thank you, Member. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u37	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, I ask you, in a responsible manner, to answer the question why you add Article in the report. 31a, which states that the costs of one-off benefits paid to pensioners should now be borne by the Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities. Is that what this is about? As an experienced parliamentarians, a Member, you should answer this question. Secondly, yesterday you also spoke at committee meetings about what is planned from this Fund for Disabled Persons. I would like to ask for detailed written information on what actions will be financed, how much they will cost, what is the difference between the planned impacts and what you propose for people with disabilities. And one last thing. Namely, in many counties today, Mr Cymanski, funding (The Bell) for rehabilitation turns takes place every 3 and 4 years. I know that it is financed from PFRON, not from this fund, but it shows a great deal of needs when it comes to people with disabilities. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u38	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Monika Rosa, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u39	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Cymanski at the committee meeting and now during his speech with ease he said that the Demographic Reserve Fund is pointless that this money is not going to be useful, because there is little money in this fund. That it doesn't make any sense? And actually only enough for 1 month's pension payments that the Social Security Office is currently paying. Isn't it? So my question is, is this an introduction to the liquidation of this fund? Because this is another loan, so, Minister, please answer me: Are you going to completely train this reserve fund to liquidate it? Because it's a soft lead when it comes to the liquidation of the fund. 4 years. Why isn't this bill a government project? Why didn't you find another way to pay those pensions? This only raises concerns about people with disabilities already in Poland. What are you going to pay back the loan that the Solidarity Fund is borrowing from the FRD if there are no receipts that could be sufficient to repay this loan? And how will you look into the eyes of trade union representatives, social dialogue councils, when they have made it clear that such draft laws must be consulted? [[Applause]] Just like you're gonna look. Just like you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u40	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Adam Szłapka, Civic Coalition. It's you guys... having time. What's wrong with you? I'll show you... Ladies and gentlemen, please, you can really talk as effectively in the clowns.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u41	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! And how much longer, I'm gonna check the data. Mr Reporter, there will be time for reference. I'm sorry. Mr. Reporter, because... We must keep the questioning form, so I will ask the applicants of this law: Do you know what this law is? This law is a disgrace to the idea, which is often repeated in your execution, the idea of a state of prosperity. In your performance. Because the state of prosperity is not a state in which the government treats the budget as the budget of the electoral fund. The state of prosperity is not a country where money is taken from the weakest, the social group that will not smoke tires on the streets, in order to fulfill their electoral promises in the area where you came out of your research, that you must promise a particular group. The state of prosperity is not a state that has the weakest in other social groups. This bill is a disgrace. The states of prosperity in your execution, and you know it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u42	Thank you very much, sir. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u43	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities was an opportunity to implement the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, i.e. the right to independent living. There was hope that the fund, as long-awaited support, would become the foundation, the basis for trust in the state and the law. However, no amendment was accepted at the committee meeting yesterday. Nor has the request for a public hearing been taken into account, which is astonishing for me, that is again haste, chaos and indifference to the opinion of others, and above all those most interested, namely the disabled. Why aren't you talking to the disabled? Today they protested before the Seym and no one from the government even showed up. Did you run out of time? What's going on? What about consultations [[♪ The bell ♪]] Social? What are you afraid of? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u44	Thank you, Member. Ms Katarzyna Osos, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u45	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, you fund the Solidarity Fund by borrowing. Loans, of course, have to be repaid. And here's the first question: Is there even a chance with this fund's budget to repay these loans? Second question: When 13 pensions are paid out from the Fund, is there no risk to the financing of programmes aimed at people with disabilities? Or maybe this loan will never be repaid and there will be no demographic reserve in a moment, there will be no funding for programmes aimed at people with disabilities, and probably in some time and this thirteenth pension, because it will simply be no use at all. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u46	Thank you, Member. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u47	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! It would seem that this law is really about future benefits, i.e. 2020. I would like to say to the High House that this law, this draft act on the Solidarity Fund, is nothing, because, on the basis of this law, one single payment cannot be made to pensioners in 2020. This law states that the fund provides for financial support for pensioners referred to in separate provisions. This only separate provision is the Act of 4 April 2019 on one-off cash benefits for pensioners in 2019. So, ladies and gentlemen, we're dealing with one big drink, accounting and settlement. Why don't you calm your friends down? In fact, in order not to exceed the expenditure rule (the bell), the State is using the Demographic Reserve Fund for the benefit already paid out under which you transferred the thirteen. Because we're in solidarity with them. Who? 32 people from the list of "Forbes." Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u48	Thank you, sir. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u49	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I regret that, like yesterday at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, the Minister of Public Finance is not with us, although mostly this ministry is concerned. What are you doing? You're creating some sort of criminal legal structure that's supposed to legitimize government spending outside of the spending rule. Today, you're really trying to cover up the violation by the Minister of Public Finance of public finances, because why else, except for this purpose, would you suddenly make some reimbursement of the 13th pension paid a few months ago from the Labour Fund? It's just to create a legal basis to pay off this 13, because you did it illegally and in violation of the law. All those who will ultimately vote in favour of this law will be covered by (the bell) by the Minister of Finance in this country. [[Applause]] But, Paulina, you guys supported it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u50	Thank you, Member. You voted in favour. We were against it, what are you saying? They were all for it. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u51	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! What's happening is cruel and immoral. Use of resources to help and support people with disabilities in fulfilling their promises. This isn't right. That's not the point. Read the bill. One third of the households of people living with an intellectually disabled person face financial problems. You know that? We know, we know. Disabled people are unable to buy drugs, not to mention that they have difficult access to rehabilitation. It may look beautiful from the Parliamentary benches, but it's actually very different in reality and in practice. Great, great. You've been in charge for eight years. Rehabilitation equipment, carts... You've been in charge for eight years. ...dear lady, this is only a dream of people with disabilities. Madame, we ask questions. Let's not argue with each other. Beautiful, hypocrite. Let's not argue, that's right. And only disabled people and their families know that. Today, a protest of people with disabilities took place before the Sejm. Why weren't you there? You're a beautiful debater. Why weren't you there? Why didn't you listen to them? Why didn't you explain it to them? [[Applause]] Why didn't you explain to them... Don't yell. I'm sorry, but these are questions for the government and the rapporteur. Thank you. ...that it can be done in such a way that they do not lack these resources? Mrs... And on their behalf, I ask, were there any consultations? Were they invited to consult and did the seniors also have a chance to comment on whether they wanted to give up their 13th pensions or not? [[Applause]] Bravo! It's not giving up anything, please read the bill. Very good.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u52	Thank you, Member. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u53	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Solidarity Fund bombing bill has several unacceptable effects. Firstly, as was mentioned here, it sanctiones a serious violation of public finance discipline. Secondly, it hits the funding base of the support scheme for people with disabilities, which has nothing to do with them for anyone who is guided at least to a minimum by values that are much discussed in public space: fairness, integrity. And thirdly, it sanctiones the plundering of PLN 9 billion from the Demographic Reserve Fund, which de facto the Law and Justice are hitting the foundations of the pension system and the payment of pensions for future generations. And what's important, today any grandson and every granddaughter can go to their grandmother and to their granddad and say: grandma, grandpa, that 9 billion, this 13th pension is my gift to you, no PiS, because they took this money, they pulled it out of the pension system for future generations and distributed it, making it a propaganda show. [[Applause]] Eventually, if it were a loan... Mr President, the question is: ...then I have a question, when, on what terms it will be returned and whether it is true that it is from the funds that were intended for disabled persons and if not, from what means. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u54	Thank you, sir. Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u55	Thank you. High Izbo! The PiS is taking money from the disability fund to cover the costs of the 13th pension promised in the election campaign. A soulless idea: to take one to those in need only to give to others, also to those in need. How can you tell me that nothing disabled will be taken away? After all, the 9 billion you want to borrow from the pension reserve, plus 1.8 billion from the fund, is 10.8 billion, which is what you need for thirteen. So for the disabled, that leaves zero. You promised a 13th and 14th pension in the campaign, but from the budget, not from the disability fund. Just a little bit longer, and you're gonna take 14 away from the teachers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u56	Thank you, Member. Mr Marek Owa, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u57	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First corrigendum. This bill doesn't give anyone anything. I'm sure he doesn't provide... Question. ...the 13th salary for pensioners and pensioners does not provide the funeral allowance, but this bill robs a lot of people. He robs people with disabilities who will have to pay off a nine-billion-dollar loan from the Demographic Reserve Fund. And if people with disabilities do not repay this loan, it robs all Poles who have been making up for 20 years the Demographic Reserve Fund, which today amounts to 42.5 billion. If we hit 9 billion, it'll be 33 billion. And after the next four years, at the end of the PiS government... It's gonna be zero. ... There will be zero, and the dream of Mr Cymanski will come true, who will say that the reserve is unnecessary, because we spent all the money in four years. This is an outrage, sir. [[Applause]] Bravo! They have a plan.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u58	Thank you very much, sir. I am merely reminding the High House that we are at the point of questioning, so please, at some point, that this question mark should be found. The next question will be asked by Mr Włodzimierz Tomaszewski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u59	The scale of misinformation that exists right now here on this side of the House is remarkable. You know perfectly well... Louder, into the microphone. ...that the fund isn't depleted, it's enlarged. Mother... Many times - and here during the debate, and during committee meetings - the representative, the Minister of Sweden, spoke about the fact that the fund is being enlarged and there will be no thin part of this tribute, which is for the disabled. And where is it written? She's not isolated, sir. There is and there will be a guarantee that no one will violate it. There's no recipe. Ladies and gentlemen... I hope the Minister can confirm that... But in what? And where is it written? ...and at the same time it was very clear that this loan would be repaid with the funds of the Social Security Office. Ha, ha, ha! Once again, I would like to stress that the state is unduly misinformed and alarmed by the disabled. What happened before this fund was created? It was zero. It's a lie, isn't it? You lie all the time. Mr Owl... At the moment there is money under the Fund for Disabled Persons and there is additional money for (The Bell) payment of pensions and pensions. Don't manipulate people. It's a country you manipulate and disinformation. [[Applause]] It's a lie.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u60	Ladies and gentlemen... Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Senyshin, Left. Come on in, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u61	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the rapporteur. What's that canonical truth you were referring to? It doesn't exist, but maybe it's Neology. Canon, rule, rule. We know that the Bishop's truth is hiding pedophilia among priests and pretending it's not there. Church truth is the stealing scams of the property commission. Rule, rule, professor. Member, we are at a different point. Is canonical truth like stealing from people with disabilities? Will the Church be pleased to see his faithful son frame him like this? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u62	The next question will be asked by Mr Sławomir Jan Piechota, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u63	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! It is with great bitterness that I want to ask this question directly to Minister Stanisław Swed. 6 years ago, Mr Szwed, then as a Member of Stanisław Szwed, together with Mr Mark Ast, today President of the Legislative Commission, demanded that the Constitutional Tribunal should consider it incompatible with the Constitution to differentiate benefits on account of the age of the disabled person under care. The Court delivered such a judgment in October 2014. Your entire term of office has passed. You've been in the government the whole time. Minister! Are you, together with the Chairman of the Legislative Commission, Mr Mark Ast, working on a bill that will execute the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal you requested? When is this project gonna show up? Will it also include other carers of disabled people, especially mothers in early retirements of EWK (The Bell) and mothers receiving similar care benefits? When will such a bill go to the Sejm? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u64	Thank you, sir. The next question will be asked by Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u65	Minister! As the issue of the depletion of the demographic fund is often addressed, I would like to ask whether this is to be one-off and only for 2019. Will these reserve fund funds be complemented by budgetary resources that are blocked in the section on the Social Security Office? That's one thing. Members of the Civic Platform are accusing us of paying for spending. I have a question: Do you not remember how you were indulging in spending rules by taking funds out of the budget by a road fund or by converting subsidies to the Social Insurance Fund... It shouldn't be a question for us. It should be a question for the applicant. Yeah, yeah. ...on loans to hide the budget deficit? That didn't help you. You left us a budget deficit of almost PLN 50 billion. We don't have to do this because we have a budget deficit close to zero, even though you haven't implemented any social policy and you haven't financed it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Bravo! I will address Mrs Chasing if the Marshal will allow. Mrs... Mrs. Member! Since you emphasized with undiscovered satisfaction that you were against the creation of this fund, I ask you: Is 31 million zlotys, which were used from this fund for support and care services, more or less than zero? And so on, and so on. I'm surprised at you. [[Applause]] Bravo, customs...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u66	Thank you very much, Member. Let me remind you that we are asking questions to the rapporteur and to the Minister. The next question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, the Civic Coalition. Ladies and gentlemen, please, let's follow the rules.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u67	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, I'm not surprised that you make promises. I'm not surprised that you keep them sometimes. It's too bad that you're not very smart. But I would like to ask why at the expense of people with disabilities and why at the expense of the financial credibility of the state. Why are you ruining our country? Your project is a clear circumvention of the spending rule, it's creative accounting, and that's what Vice-President Skowrońska said. Please inform me: Who made the decision on this matter? Who violated the discipline of public finances? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u68	Thank you, sir. The next question will be asked by Mr Czesław Siekierski, Club PLS-Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u69	I'm so sorry, I didn't notice. Ladies and gentlemen! My question concerns the financial situation in the current Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities. Is there a shortage of funds for the written tasks of this fund for the disabled, which Mrs Hartwich referred to? Has the support paid for the 13th pension been fully covered by the loan, or were the measures envisaged for the disabled? Should this law cover the absence of a procedure for the payment of a 13th pension? If so, I understand it personally, although I am surprised that you have allowed such negligence that it is only now that you have to prepare the legal infrastructure which (the bell) is related to the payment due to the pensioners of the 13th. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u70	Thank you, sir. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, PSL-Kukiz15. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u71	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Me with a question of a slightly more general nature. Well, at a very difficult time for people with disabilities, in the atmosphere of the strike, you concluded a certain agreement, a social agreement, as representatives of public authority. Today, in an important way, you are putting a certain risk on the solution that we are dealing with in this agreement. And the question on my part - also after many signals from people with disabilities - is this: Do you not fear at this moment the consequences of breaking up this important and extremely difficult social agreement, a social agreement on specific assistance to this environment? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u72	Thank you, sir. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, PSL-Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u73	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, (PL) Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you this question: What do you think, ladies and gentlemen, is a credible state and a fair state? Is this the kind of country that's afraid to talk, consult? Because, in fact, those who are afraid today have the right to be honest about it. They have the right, ladies and gentlemen. They must not limit this possibility. This is unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, for many, many months in this House, and I think that this very often causes you not to gain, even if you have pure intentions, support in these matters. I have one question, Your Marshal. When and with what means will this loan be repaid? I ask you to answer that question. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u74	Thank you, sir. Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice. Come on in, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u75	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Unfortunately, I regret to say that it is clear that no arguments go to Members of the opposition. Despite translations and explanations, you continue to manipulate and mislead Poles. Do not lie and use the situation of people with disabilities for their political purposes. It's immoral and dishonest. I ask on their behalf: Did you reject the first-reading support fund project in defence of people with disabilities? Was it in their defense that you voted against this project or abstained from voting? What you're doing is called hypocrisy. You walk into that podium and you give tirades, you play your emotions. It's really hard to believe you're doing this with conviction. To make statements. Are you convinced of what you're saying, or do you have such a PR message? [[Applause]] Read the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u76	Madame, I do not know who the question was addressed to. Thank you very much. The last question will be asked by Mr Tomasz Zimoch, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u77	Mrs. Marshal! In conclusion, I have such a huge request to discuss such an important and at the same time very sensitive subject, however, in accordance with the rules of fair play. Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, with such a hostile tone, speaks of the attack of the opposition Members that they are like wolves. What can you call Mrs. Iwona's fight on behalf of her son Cuba? But, sir, a question, a question. (Groans in the hall) That's the question. Question? The question mark will be here soon... To the rapporteur? But don't judge the envoy. How can you call this emotional wolffight? Now there's a question mark. Maybe it's better to listen, understand and consider what Mrs. Iwona says? In addition, Mrs Wolves in Poland are protected and take your camp, too, under the protection of Members of the opposition. It's really worth it. [[Applause]] Oh, Jesus, how smart.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u78	Mr Masłowska was not the rapporteur. Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. On behalf of the Government, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Minister Stanisław Szwed, will answer the questions. Come in, Minister. But there were questions to the finance minister who showed up. Minister, you will answer our questions... Quiet. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister is answering questions. I ask the High House to remain silent.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u79	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Members of the opposition! You're doing the most harm to people with disabilities, really. [[Applause]] Bravo! I am the sixth term of office in Parliament and what you do with people with disabilities is unworthy of this House. You do the most harm to those people with disabilities... [[Game in the O.R.]] Keep it down. Keep it down. Mr... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: To you, fellow chairman: You've been chairman of the committee for eight years. I could ask you the same questions: What have you done for people with disabilities for eight years? And what have you done over the last four years? Is this a way to solve the problems of people with disabilities? No. We can solve problems together. If you want to join, at least don't interrupt, just join what we're proposing. And what did you do for the disabled? Questions, not instruction. Ladies and gentlemen, facts, facts. I'm gonna tell you the facts right now, and I'm gonna address your questions and the issues you're talking about. Answers, not answers. Listen to me. So, yeah, we're gonna start with things that can be numerically, easiest, right? Appropriations allocated to disabled persons in 2015 - PLN 14 billion, appropriations in 2018 - PLN 19.5 billion. The rapporteur was wrong, this was the year 2018. In 2020 we will spend PLN 27 billion. That's an increase. Isn't he here? What growth, what growth? Huge growth, huge growth. Is there money for people with disabilities or isn't there? That's the first thing. The second thing is that I have already mentioned, but it is evident that once again we need to be reminded. The Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities, the programme we created last year, is being implemented. Those countries who are sitting on these topics know that very well. When it comes to care services for people with disabilities, we have talked about this several times. The programme is running, 320 municipalities have already benefited from this programme, the amount in the budget is PLN 60 million, we have used up to now PLN 32 million. Retirement care - 110 million registered in the programme, 300 municipalities benefited, 24 million already allocated. Nursing and residential centers. Member, you may now appear. As you tried to get the money, there was no project, now we can use this program, but we need to perform. We now have 50 million zlotys, next year - 80 million zlotys. If we need it, we'll do it. For the personal assistant of a disabled person we have 50 million, 30 million is already used. Finally, the biggest benefit we have been performing since July, I am sorry, since October, but the law entered into force in July: 500 PLN supplemental benefit for people unable to live on their own. It's a program that's developing today. At the moment, as regards the Social Insurance Institution, more than 520 thousand have been received. conclusions, almost 140 thousand. the benefits have already been granted. Let me remind you that this is 500 zlotys added to the lowest benefit or social pension. The amount that we spend this year - PLN 820 million, next year - PLN 4.5 billion. We want to cover 850,000. persons. With regard to the issues we have been talking about, the care provision in 2015 is PLN 1200, next year it will be PLN 1860. Well, that's an increase. Isn't he here? Please rely on hard facts, let's talk hard facts. Workshops of occupational therapy, professional activities - next year more than PLN 500 million. I have an increase in every action. There was a question about the PFRON measures. From PFRON we spend over PLN 3600 million next year, this year PLN 3300 million for the financing of salaries. The measures you have also asked for are 440 million for rehabilitation. There will be even more resources for this next year. These programmes are launched through PFRON and these funds are spent. Of course, there are a lot of needs. Nobody said they were gone. But let us speak honestly, because in the case of people with disabilities it is not worth practicing propaganda. And you must also decide in this discussion whether we are talking about people with disabilities, about us taking away from them, which is absolute nonsense... That's right. ...or are we talking about financial matters, spending rules, etc., because some people say yes, others do. Decide what state you're charging. Once again from this speaker I say that under no circumstances will people with disabilities lose the name of the fund, from the Solidarity Fund to the Solidarity Fund. Why change your name? Because we also include pensioners and pensioners. It's obvious and simple for anyone who wants to read into it even a little bit. And, now, how does the Solidarity Fund work today? There's a loan from the Labor Fund. We have a good situation with regard to the labour fund's resources. It's an interest-free loan, it'll be the first instalment paid back in 2023. So, what, we're supposed to do this, borrow it in commercial banks, when we have the opportunity, because there's a fund that we can use? We took advantage of it. The Demographic Reserve Fund, which you are asking about - a one-off loan that will be repaid from the Social Insurance Fund, i.e. the Demographic Reserve Fund will not lose anything on this operation, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing. By the way, because someone said that our pension system would collapse, I inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that next year the Social Security Office will pay PLN 260 billion. This is the safest institution in our country to protect pensions. The Demographic Reserve Fund is 40 billion. So don't tell me the Demographic Reserve Fund is saving the fund. No. That's what I'm talking about. That's what I'm talking about. Social Security Department... Safe. ...is the guarantee of payouts. I'll say it again, I'll say it again. Yesterday, at a committee meeting, Mr Cymanski very rightly pointed this out. This concerns a meeting with associations of disabled people. There was a balanced discussion, actually there were concerns that something might be taken. I think, after our explanations... Caused by Members of the opposition. ...this case is clearer. And again today at second reading, you go back to the same thing - they took away, thieves, etc. That's absolutely not true. If we want to help people with disabilities genuinely, let us look for an agreement in this Chamber, because this is the only way to support people with disabilities. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u80	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Sławomir Jan Piechota, as corrected. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u81	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! For four years, I've been asking and reminding you of this and you do not want to understand it. And yet ye cry for decency, ye cry for truth and honesty. So, Minister, what's the deal with this truth and honesty? Six years ago, you demanded a level playing field for the care of adults with disabilities. Five years ago, the Constitutional Tribunal decided that they had to be levelled. It's been four years, the whole term. You were Deputy Minister of Labour. You're Deputy Minister of Labour. The Sejm still hasn't seen the project you've been demanding. Where's the integrity here? Where's the decency? Isn't that cheating people with disabilities? This is an example of such gross deception. You don't even have the shame to stand in front of this room and say, "Unfortunately, we haven't done it yet, we're just gonna do it. You're still avoiding answers. We call for decency, we call for honesty. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u82	Thank you very much, sir. The Minister has declared his readiness to explain at a time he has not used before. Ad hoc.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u83	I will answer that question, because in fact at the Constitutional Court I represented the Sejm then and I won this case. The matter is to be resolved, but you know very well, Mr President, that in order to resolve this, we need to get things straight with the caselaw system, which you have been trying to do for eight years, but you haven't done. 4 years. 8 years, Member. Relax, I think that in this term of office the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal will be enforced and there will be a new system of case law. [[Applause]] And your loss at the Court. That's the kind of laws you've put in place: to make elections.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u84	Thank you very much, Minister. The Committee rapporteur, Mr Tadeusz Cymanski, presented the answers to the questions. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u85	It's hard for me to say, Your Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, because I do have a perspective of 22 years because I came here once. Unfortunately, this is not the time for the rise of the Polish Parliament, I am sorry to say. I'm no better than you, of course, but you can't just... Everything is recorded more than it used to be. Now it's the Internet, it's getting harder and harder to lie. You can't do that. A Member of the Republic of Poland must distinguish between a thousand dollars, a million dollars and a billion dollars. I'm saying it because it's easier for me because I was in the bank. You can't do that shit around here and not distinguish certain things. You've got to keep it together. Thank you to those fellow students who were able to speak the student language and actually touched the case. They're smiling at me now. Yes, there is a problem of using funds, not only this fund, but also the Labour Fund, guaranteed benefits. It's been a practice for many, many years. I wish I could resist one of my friends 'cause they say to us here, what are you doing? What about them? There you go: 2010 - 7.5 billion, 2011 - 4.2, 2012 - 7.5 billion . Total - 16.8, i.e. as much as it was in 2012. Who did this? I don't. PSL platform. The dwarves did? Who asked? Przemysław Wipler. He didn't get the answer. The practices of our predecessors. We're not saints. But really before you hit someone, look at you. It's called a moral right to criticism. [[Applause]] Yes, sir! Bravo! And we have problems, too, sometimes we take shortcuts. There are problems here. But using the disabled, ladies and gentlemen? I have an inner conviction, and I'm going to say something with force. Yes, money in the budget is from different sources. The biggest is, you know, VAT, excise duty, taxes. It's all right. There are other sources. There are no miracles. Miracles are in theology, not economics. Where there are governments, there is money: taken and distributed, as a wonderful colleague says, with whom I completely disagree on certain matters, but whom I respect, for example, for being a chess player and bridger. I'm getting to the point. Let's talk about money. We may disagree very much, even fundamentally. Here, in this room not so long ago, because a few days ago, I was extremely disappointed. There was a case, maybe a private case I've been investigating for 20 years, 30 times the ZUS contribution. There will be an opportunity, sir. It is known that our fellow deputy prime minister and his liberal colleagues He didn't approve. But racial is racial: liberal, leftist. That's what we're missing. It's all dyed, ladies and gentlemen. If Mrs. Hartwich is talking here, and it's inside me, in my heart... Forgive me, there are no miracles, money from heaven will not fall. If a friend of Szczerba's cast here... But he's not the rapporteur. You've gone beyond the formula. Did you ask a question about it? Let him talk. I know it's inconvenient, painful. But I'm gonna make my friends happy, and I'm not gonna say another time. The rapporteur answers the questions. The form of the answer depends on... And that is not the answer if Mr Honourable to the rapporteur... No. It's all on tape. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I'm boring, too. To whom were these words addressed from the Seym tribune: no shoes, no pampers, no money, no money, no money, no money for that, no money for that? As rapporteur, can I refer to this or not? I would like to point out that there are areas in our country - despite 500, despite the increase in expenditure, despite the huge increase, as quoted by the Prime Minister, I am aware - where there are people who have very hard work. It doesn't satisfy me either, because I still have my own personal views, except that I belong to a certain formation. In general, I think that if there's a lot of help, there must be income thresholds. I've always felt that way. If there's a threshold for a disabled person and there's no threshold for a very rich person, I don't like it. So what if I say it, and I say it? My friends know that, too. But governments aren't based on the fact that there's a club, we just have certain programs. I think they were generally good programs, but they can be modified, improved and supported. But you cannot pretend that there are also areas of great wealth in our country, against the background of the European Union, and yet... Here I look mostly at Mr Zandberg and others. Look at Denmark, Germany, Ireland, where we're in a hurry, and see what the tax systems look like there. And then, when we do something here, you put your head in the sand and you don't support solutions that could create a chance to help people with disabilities. Now don't come out here and get worse because it's not right. Am I right? Wrong, wrong. Logically, at least. I know Janusz Korwin-Mikke doesn't agree, but these are views, there's room for discussion. We answer questions, Mr Reporter. Don't... Let's get to the point. Okay, I'm not gonna abuse it. In answer to the Member's question about the construction of barrier-free buildings and the 13th pension of money that is for the disabled... But this, Mr... Ladies and gentlemen, please come here and tell us which money, specifically, from the wording of the bill, from the regulations, dedicated and collected, passed on to the disabled, went to the thirteenth retirement pension? You can't say that. If this is said by very well-known, well-deserved parliamentarians, then - really, don't be surprised - you can not only be moved, but even agitated, because the conclusions are only two: either someone doesn't understand it or has bad will. There's no third solution. You don't understand. You don't understand. Ladies and gentlemen, it's sad that here it rained like a mantra, and this is an elementary, evidently untrue. I know some people don't like it - but these are allegations of a different nature, as I mentioned, and thank you for these comments, because this is a topic for discussion - how they are used in practice. Let me give you an example of the Labour Fund. Which crew? One, two, three, because I've been remembering it for many, many years. Residents. In the budget - 400 million, I remember, 600 million, 1 billion, probably 2 billion this year. This is money for medical residents from the Labor Fund. Let's get to the point, sir. You can rip your robes off here, but if someone's accusing someone, look in the mirror first. That's what I'm talking about. But to the point. That's the point. That's the point. This is a discussion that awaits us. No, no. There were a lot of questions. In conclusion, I would like to remind you once again that in the Committee on Public Finance... It's my duty, and in this respect I want to stay alive, although sometimes I sneak out, I'm sorry. But this is all connected, these are all subjects that will return, with all force, to the Sejm. I would like to say that most of these questions were about the question, once again I will stress, technical, that is, what are the rules, how did they have the expenses, what is the loan, who will pay it back. Mrs Gabriela Masłowska and the Minister responded very well. As for the second scope, concerning the disabled, once again I stress that there has been no, no and - I am convinced of this - there will be no practice of using the resources dedicated to a specific social group, in this case the disabled, for purposes other than those for which they were intended. We say it clearly, it's all said in public. You really can't sow in a group of very special, concerned people... Yes. The minister said it. Those people with extraordinary culture, very hard, hard, but honestly and truly, shared their regrets and disappointments. We accept this criticism. The glory in the corner was constant. We are really aware that despite the great effort, the change of situation, it continues to be very difficult and very difficult, also in groups of low-wage pensioners. There are social groups in Poland, professional groups, budgets or others that are really waiting for something to change in this situation. Let's be honest, but if we attack each other, let's not cross the line. I've been out of time now, but sometimes others have been out of decency. No, no, six more minutes. Not yet. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Okay, but some of them couldn't take it anymore. Thank you. There'll be another chance. I'm sorry. [[Applause]] But there's no specific answer. Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u86	Thank you very much, Mr Reporter. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the excise duty Act (prints Nos 15 and 24). I ask Mr Henryk Kowalczyk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u87	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! At its first meeting on 19 November 2019, the Sejm sent the Government's draft law amending the Act on excise duty from print No 15 to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. The Public Finance Commission discussed the draft at its meeting on 20 November. During the discussion, one amendment was tabled to the project, namely point 8 was added after point 7 and the catalogue of goods subject to excise duty was supplemented with e-cigarette liquids for which the rate is 55 gr per millilitre. The whole government project provides for an increase in excise duty of around 10% for all excise goods. Let me remind you that the last excise increase was in 2014 and this was a 15% increase. In the course of the discussion, of course, the focus was on the purpose of raising excise duty, whether it was just a fiscal objective or, above all, the preventive objective. The committee was attended by representatives of the State Agency for the Solution of Alcohol Problems, a representative of the National Sober Congress, Mr Krzysztof Wojciechek, many others, and paid attention to the potential effectiveness or inefficiency of this level of excise duty increase for preventive purposes. The discussion was conducted in a factual manner. The Commission has come to the conclusion that this is the beginning of a discussion on prevention programmes, and the finance committee should address this issue more closely, of course in agreement with the Health Commission, as prevention is located there and financial resources are directed to drug prevention. Hence such a directional indication resulting from discussions on excise duties. During the meeting, representatives of the spirits, tobacco and beer industry were also heard who, as usual, said that any increase in excise duty could ruin the market and threaten the grey zone. If we take into account the price level due to this excise duty, the price level of alcoholic products, those that are now or even potentially after the excise increase, and the price level relative to the purchasing power of the population in 2014, this price level is much, much lower than in 2014. For example, the minimum wage in 2014 could be purchased for about 100 half-litre bottles of vodka, and after raising excise duty for the minimum wage in 2020 it would be possible to buy more than 140 bottles of vodka... Ha, interesting. ...so, in fact, this excise duty doesn't even keep up with the purchasing power of money. Of course, there was a discussion on the potential increase in excise duty, but this decision was left to a joint discussion with the Health Commission in order to also pursue the preventive objective and allocate financial resources to alcohol prevention. Account should be taken not only of the direct revenue from excise duties, which many debaters believe are secondary, but also of the financial consequences of alcohol abuse and of the treatment of alcohol and tobacco-related diseases. Therefore, the committee, after adopting this one amendment, proposes that the bill submitted be adopted and proposes that the draft law contained in the report of the Committee on Public Finances be adopted in print No 24. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u88	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Piotr Polak will be the first to speak, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u89	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I present our position on the draft law amending the excise duty Act, prints no. 15 and 24. As the rapporteur put it, the proposed amendments concern an increase in excise duty by 10% on average in the case of alcoholic products as well as tobacco products. As regards alcohol products, the increase in excise duty will not apply to cider and perry, whereas changes will include ethyl alcohol, beer and wine products. The tax will cover the following tobacco products: cigarettes, smoking tobacco, cigars and cigarillos, tobacco dried tobacco and electronic cigarette liquid, as amended at the committee meeting. The increase scale, as I said, is about 10% on average. The Act enters into force on 1 January 2020, with certain exceptions. The law and justice support and vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u90	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Janusz Cichoń to present the position of the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u91	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The discussion within the finance committee has clearly demonstrated that the main objective of this law is the fiscal objective, i.e. PLN 1700 million for the fulfilment of electoral promises. During my first reading, I said that when it comes to excise measures, social costs should be taken into account for a good cause. I was talking about undesirable goods, defining them and pointing out that the consumption of these goods is linked to much higher social costs than private costs. Social costs include, for example, the costs of road accidents, the perpetrators of which are those who drink alcohol, as well as the costs of treatment, and social consequences in terms of the functioning of Polish families. This is the first case. The second point is the lack of reliable information on the harmfulness of consumption of these products. I'm talking about alcohol, but I'm talking about nicotine. The excise duty should provide measures to cover the difference in private costs and social costs and allow for the elimination of the social consequences of consumption, as well as the implementation of a comprehensive preventive education programme which will result in a decrease in this consumption and a reduction in those costs. Unfortunately, no such calculation is done in Poland today. There is virtually no comprehensive plan to reduce alcohol consumption, smoking. And that's a fundamental flaw in what the PiS government is proposing to us, because it doesn't completely involve this fiscal effect with prevention, compensation, overcoming these social consequences. Indeed, at the committee meeting there were very dramatic statements from producers who point to this, and they are quite right about it, as well as our experience shows that this is a step change - we are talking about 10% - may cause the growth of the gray area, may cause unemployment in the industry, but it can actually lead to lower budget revenues rather than higher. This is the result of the introduced engine change and our experience so far shows this. This increase is generally not felt by the consumer, but it is felt by producers very much. You do not seem to see that price developments, contrary to what seems to be common, are more sensitive to producers. And this is not even about those who are involved in tobacco production today, alcohol of all kinds, but it is about those for whom entry into this market in the illegal formula becomes thanks to the maneuvers that you are making, more and more attractive, because for them, these dozens of pennies are the difference - in relation to the profit they can achieve today - another incentive to enter this market. We are talking about illegal production here, especially when it comes to cigarettes, especially when it comes to stronger alcohols. In my opinion, there is also a lack of further reflection on how this excise duty should be shaped. A classic example - I've moved it several times - that's what you do when it comes to cigarettes. In addition to raising the quota rate, you also raise the interest rate. Incidentally, it is also worth remembering that this percentage leads to price competition, to lower quality and lower prices, and also creates some uncertainty about budgetary revenues. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is also worth remembering that it may not actually reduce smoking, and cheap cigarettes do the same - if not more - as expensive cigarettes. Thank you very much. We certainly need such a deeper reflection. She's missing. And given the shortcomings I mentioned earlier, especially the lack of a link between this excise duty and educational and preventive programmes, we cannot support this law. We'll vote against it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u92	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the parliamentary club, Mr Tomasz Trela will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u93	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I told you two days ago that the main dimension of this project is really a financial aspect - the government is looking for money and will look for them in citizens' pockets. But I also said two days ago that we wanted to give this opportunity and we want to ask about this project, about the details of this project, especially in the context of the allocation of this amount from excise duty, to ask at the meeting of the finance committee. But how can one ask about health aspects when there is no one in the health department at the meeting of the finance committee? The Minister, with all due respect, representing the finance department, was only polite to say the truth, but the truth that confirms my thesis that this billion seven hundred would fall into a large budget bag and feed the state budget. So it would be worth being decent and admitting that no alcohol sales will fall or any anti-alcoholic project will be implemented, but you are simply looking for money. On the other hand, on the assumption and in principle, we can talk about excise duty correction, but only when this money goes into an increased health budget or is directly dedicated to anti-alcoholic programmes, but unfortunately neither in one case nor in the other case are we dealing with it, because the state in the world simply does not want to fight alcoholism, but you are patching the budget hole of the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u94	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk will speak on behalf of the parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u95	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! What have we known since these two days? We know that there is voidness in the state register, and since there is voidness, despite the assurances we need to find the money somehow, so in the Gambler's style, the Polish People's Republic was invented to try under excise duty for alcohol, excise duty for cigarettes to find money, using just the right gaming time argument concerning the health of citizens. This is a misguided argument, because any data contradicts that this should be an effective solution. It is also difficult not to think that the health aspect here is merely an excuse, not an argument for justifying an increase in excise duty. As a parliamentary club, we would like to present, Minister, to the government such a circle of rescue, if, of course, it is the will of the government, and try to find a solution that would help, I think, many in this House to convince this project. That's why I have an amendment that I'm going to allow you to hand over to the marshal in a moment. This is an amendment to the Article. 2, which reads as follows: The increase in the financial resources obtained under this amendment is - specifically, not generally, somewhere in the vacuum - intended to finance the National Programme for the Control of Cancer Diseases. Specifically. After all, the derivative of smoking is respiratory cancer. As a result, it will be possible to allocate nearly PLN 2 billion - as you say - as much from this project should contribute to the budget - in fact to the achievement of the objectives of this law. If there is, Minister, a good climate for this kind of solution, then our club will consider supporting this bill. If this continues to be solely and exclusively dictated by the search for money, as I said at the first reading, you have nothing to count on at the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u96	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Bosak, on behalf of the Circle of the Polish Confederation, will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u97	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Marshal! We are concerned to receive information about such a rapid increase in excise duty. First of all, we would like to point out that tax policy should be based on a plan. It should not be that the market is surprised by changes in the structure of excise duties, is surprised by the drastic increases in taxes, dictated, as all points out, solely by budgetary objectives. In fact, it's hard to see what the Ministry of Finance is proposing, any logic. When analysing expert positions, it can be noted that actually all relevant economic organisations criticise what the Ministry of Finance has proposed. He spoke on this matter, among others. The Institute for Agricultural Management. Let me just make a few points. Firstly, producers were hit, i.e. an important industry of the Polish economy - tobacco growers. In addition, it has been pointed out that we are already among the 10 countries of the European Union with the highest interest rate and that the price balance prevailing on the market has been breached and developed by adapting to the current excise tax structure imposed by the Ministry. The fundamental question therefore arises: Where does this change in the structure of the tax actually come from? The Institute of Agricultural Economy, as well as other organisations, rightly point out, for example, Latvia. If the Ministry of Finance is indeed motivated by the needs of the economic sphere of the budget, Latvia is an example that quota excise duty can be increased while reducing the percentage and achieving revenue growth. Let us remind you that in Latvia there was about three times the increase in revenue from the forecasted, expected. This is not just a matter of one position. I can also mention the position of the National Chamber of Commerce, the position of the Republican Foundation, which I quoted, the 2011 report on these issues, but also the position of 19 November 2019, which indicates that this change of structure, firstly, is unpredictable, secondly, can be dangerous. So that we note that such things should be consulted today and above all should be planned for many years forward, so as not to surprise Polish producers with such tricks as the Ministry of Finance has applied here. The Confederation Club, near the Confederation, of course, will vote against it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u98	Thank you very much, sir. And Mr Grzegorz Braun, Circle of the Parliamentary Confederation, in the second part.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u99	I bow down. God bless you! Miss Marshal Honourable! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, We're left with a couple of people from every club. I see, some of them jumped one at an old price. A lot of good, substantive arguments, unlike - or still present? - Minister. I appreciate the level of this discussion. Contrary to appearances, the price of alcohol Those aren't michałki. I don't know if you remember the first war the American Empire went to. It was so-called. Whiskey Rebellion. The times of our Kościuszko insurrection, exactly the same 1794. Alexander Hamilton, one of the fathers of American democracy, set empty in the treasure of the newly formed Masonic Federal Republic, decided to patch the budget hole, of course, by charging taxes on those whose tax is the easiest, i.e. simple people who in Appalachians had no better entertainment than driving their own moonshine. The Washington army has set off on those miners in the Appalachians who rebelled over the imposition of excise duties on something that has so far been the only pleasure they could afford after hours. Fortunately, this army didn't make it to its destination. Everyone was sick of dysentery. It ended with a merry ober. But what's the conclusion? Minister! Venerable referee of this bill! Ladies and gentlemen! Don't touch it. Don't touch it. Don't touch it. The beer war still reminds me of the days of Louis Hungarian. Ah, and our uprising, November revolution, end of November. Near November night, not only the Warsaw arsenal, but also the stores of the monopoly vodka of Newachowicz smashed the Warsaw people - I quote Mohnacki. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So, ladies and gentlemen, do not move this area so sensitive that we do not find ourselves in a completely different political state. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u100	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. I would like to inform the High House that 20 parliamentarians have joined the questions. I'm closing the list. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. The first question will be asked by Mr Jakub Rutnicki, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u101	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! And especially all of you who are watching today's debate! Probably in a few weeks, when you go to the grocery store, maybe Christmas, you might want to buy wine or beer and wonder what's going on, that price goes up like this. And don't be fooled by Law and Justice... Ha, ha, ha! ...which claims that this raise is only for your own good, because if you eat less, you'll be healthier. Well, maybe we should move on. What will happen when it comes to the issue of the fuel charge? Because you also explained that in the end Poles will drive less, they will walk more, so they will be healthier. Don't let it fool you, ladies and gentlemen, it's bullshit, because it's really about ripping your wallets off because the PiS needs more billions to make their promises. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u102	Thank you, sir. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u103	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to ask the Minister about the words of Prime Minister Morawiecki. Mr Morawiecki, speaking about an increase in excise duty, said: we are not talking about additional revenue to the budget. Then what's the matter with you? If it's not about the extra revenue to the budget, how do you not give the money you want to train out of the pockets of Poles, because in the end Poles will pay, you say it is a health bill, then where is the direction of the money for prevention programs, for the National Health Fund, for the treatment of Poles? Without consulting with a great marketing frame, it's 3 gr, 6 gr, gold on a bottle of vodka. Please tell us what you will actually take out of the Poles' pocket these 1.7 billion PLN (The Bell) and why you do it without consulting. Thank you. [[Applause]] Look who's talking.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u104	Thank you, Member. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition. I don't see your MP. So, Mr Paweł Krutul, Left. You're welcome. I can't see. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition. Your Marshal, is there any way to add up? I closed the list. And there, once you'd be kind... I've been there before.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u105	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to bring up a topic that was already mentioned here in some way, but it is generally about the positions of industry organisations. These organisations bringing together producers of various alcohols show that such a significant one-off increase Alcohol excise duty can have extremely negative consequences. For example, in 2014, when there was a similar increase, I would say, in terms of the purposes of this excise duty, this increase resulted in a 24% reduction in vodka production, but consumption did not fall. Therefore, the grey zone was certainly enlarged, which was not the intended effect. And the question is, did you even do any research on this? If they have been carried out or not, I ask for a written reply, including the transmission of the results of these studies, as this is a very serious threat to the stability of the industry, including the brewing industry. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u106	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u107	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The government starts its operation by raising taxes and reaches directly to the pockets of Poles, while, as it was said, without consultation, including without consulting trade organizations, merchants, Polish small and medium-sized trading companies. Ladies and gentlemen! Increase in excise duty from 3% to 10% It has nothing to do with the fight against addiction, because prevention and education programs do not follow. I ask the Minister: How much of this money will go to the treatment of addicts, to medical programs? Besides, ladies and gentlemen, this is an increase in the gray area, especially in the eastern part of our country that I come from. I know what selling these articles is like right now, illegal sales. This is the development of entrepreneurship, but this is (the bell) of unofficial entrepreneurship. The Prime Minister was talking about entrepreneurship, but I think it was this gray, unofficial entrepreneurship. This will not help small Polish local companies. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u108	Thank you, Member. Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u109	Minister! It's just a payout that's missing from the budget. There is no effectiveness in the fight against alcoholism. We know that 800,000, maybe 1 million Poles are addicted to alcohol, they are, they are co-dependent, most often family. For them this is a first-needed article, sometimes more important than butter or milk for a child, such is the medical assessment of the situation. But the gray zone will certainly increase - also cognac driven by night, i.e. smog, certainly non-consumable alcohols, glycol, methanol, or so-called. Blindness. There will also be consequences to some extent. And the next thing, expensive alcohol -- the most important thing (the bell) for children -- and cheap drugs and boosters. Isn't there going to be a shift this way? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u110	Thank you, sir. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u111	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I am generally opposed to any increases because they de facto later turn against the economy. [[Applause]] That's the first thing. The second thing we can talk about - but we can never talk about a 10% increase, because it will be quite a burden for producers - but the condition is one: if there is indeed a record that this money, which will go up to the budget, we will address to people who require treatment, prevention, for sports clubs, for NGOs, for schools. We will ask, Minister, in a year's time, how much of the money you're talking about today that they're going to go into prevention has indeed gone into prevention. In my opinion, it is better to tell Poles the truth. And one last thing, Minister. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I wouldn't count how many bottles of vodka we can buy for minimum wage someday and now. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Ha, ha, ha! Bravo! Why not? I pay the minimum down, then they'll drink less.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u112	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska, the Civic Coalition Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u113	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please? Member, please. Raising excise duty is nothing more than clearing the government's pocket. Nothing else. However, I would like to ask, ladies and gentlemen, what is prevention. I remember martial law, and I don't think everyone... that a lot of people here in this room. I remember the grandmothers who used to go out there and sell it to even young people. Today I think it'll be the same if we don't do prevention and raise excise duty. And you're welcome, because I'd like to know what kind of prevention this is going to be on when it comes to excise duty on alcohol and cigarettes. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u114	Thank you very much, Member. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u115	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, the increase in excise duty is a real threat of strengthening the grey zone, smuggling and, above all, increasing illegal production. The speed of proceding relieves the rulers from thinking about the consequences of this law. What's your hurry, Minister? The money in the budget is needed, there is a lot of need, but you cannot endlessly burden Poles. How is it that the Deputy Minister explains the 10% increase in rates? as a result of increasing costs to counter the social and health effects of alcohol and tobacco consumption, and the government rejects the proposal to refer the project to the Health Commission? To me, it's completely incomprehensible. What is the actual state of public finances in Poland? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will the alcohol prevention programme be financed from these measures? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u116	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u117	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister, if the Minister is here! The increase in excise duty should go hand in hand with a good preparation of the preventive, educational and health programme. Unfortunately, the project was not addressed to the Committee on Health - I regret very much - so we do not know what educational, health, harm to smoking, alcohol consumption, the government intends to introduce in schools what concrete measures it wants to use to counteract the sale of alcohol and cigarettes in juvenile shops. And, yet, when will the number of beds in psychiatric wards be increased, where addicts are treated and when will the judgments of the court of forced treatment be executed immediately? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Point.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u118	Thank you, Member. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u119	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry of Finance! I would like to ask what happened in the government from the moment the government project was addressed to public consultation - then a 3-percent increase was foreseen - to the moment it was sent to the Sejm, with a 10% increase. Is this due to the evident situation of the state budget and the needs of this state budget, or to some thoughtful strategy that we do not yet know about? And the second thing is the issue of which health prevention programmes will be allocated at least some of these planned PLN 1700 million additional excise duties, as if the Minister could just tell us? And, thirdly, I am convinced that it is also worth looking at the history of these excise increases. There was a government that reduced excise duty, and it has already been established that more money had been paid to the state budget at that time. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But is it not worth looking back at some decisions? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u120	Thank you, sir. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u121	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm just asking, Your Excellency, if you're not bored anymore. This must be taken away from the disabled and given to the pensioners, protested by the disabled, then taken away from the pensioners, given to the single mothers, protested by the retired, then taken away from the single mothers and given to the disabled again, protested by the single mothers, and by the way, something stuck to the government's feet. Don't you get bored now, or can't you finally take a stiff budget where you can't take one and give it to the other, because it's like that little puppy that's been brewing, she gave one a little bit to the other? You know it, Your Excellency. Well, maybe it's time to stop. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]] Ha, ha, ha.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u122	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u123	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! (PL) Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, The introduction of excise duty has a restrictive task. The additional levy is intended to reduce the demand for the products chosen by the State, most often tobacco products and alcoholic beverages. In some cases, when a product consists of relatively cheap raw materials and its harm to health is high, excise duty can be a very high part of the final price. You have to read it in Wikipedia, you just have to click. This is the simplest definition of excise duty. What you people are doing is not an excise duty, it's a simple tribute to your fanaber that you're doing in the budget. But Janusz Silchoń has already said this. And I will ask, by the way, when will you finally start to worry about the health of the Polish family, when you will finally start to worry about the health of Polish young people, when you will finally start to worry about the health of Polish children who are already beginning to drink alcohol. When will you prohibit the sale of alcohol (the bell) in smaller bottles than half-litres? That's what they're called. Monkeys and quarters. When are you gonna tell the stores to hide that alcohol? 'Cause pretty soon, these monkeys are gonna be spending the rest instead of gold. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u124	Thank you, sir. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, PSL - Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u125	Mrs. Marshal! Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. Yes, sir. I wanted to ask, Minister, what is the nature of this bill? Fiscal or health-promoting? Because if this is to be a healthier solution, how can you reduce the consumption of cigarettes, i.e. Smoking or drinking alcohol by raising prices? Whoever meets and deals with people like that knows it's impossible. Programmes are needed, concrete solutions and work are needed. By raising prices, we will not limit drinking or smoking. The Polish People's Party proposes, if you already want to introduce this fiscalism, to allocate money for a national program to fight cancer. Then it'll be a specific goal. Those who are addicted (the bell) can be treated, and then you can say that this has a health-promoting purpose. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u126	Thank you, sir. Mr Artur Dziambor, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u127	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Sleep. Stefan Kisielewski once said that socialism is such a system that heroically fights problems unknown in any other system. Most of them are people who smoke cigarettes, so you have to rob them with extra taxes. We all drink alcohol, more or less, so we have to tax it. Those who eat too much candy, like me, and are a little obese, more or less, also need to be taxed on sugar. Those who drive cars and almost everyone are drivers - you need an additional fuel charge. My question is very serious: What is the real budget gap after all the social programs that Law and Justice invented and offered voters? What's the hole you're trying to patch with 30 times and today's raise? Jarosław Kaczyński, when there was an increase in the rate of ZUS, said that if someone could not operate under such conditions, it was not suitable for it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So paraphrasing Jarosław Kaczyński: if someone cannot rule under these conditions, he is not fit to rule. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo! She said what she knew.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u128	Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u129	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! The government boasts of a balanced budget, which is due to be in force next year, but the government forgets to say that it is really introducing this balanced budget not of its own free will, just because it is forced by the spending rule. Isn't that right, Minister? No, it's not. The truth is that, at the beginning of your previous term, you turned real inflation into an inflationary expenditure rule and today, just as it allowed you to increase your spending, so today, unfortunately, it limits your expenditure to those that would give you actual inflation. As they say, scheming loses twice. There was no need to change this expenditure rule in fact. But the worst part of all of this is that you don't have any real anti-alcoholic policy. In this respect, the government has not taken any action, although statistics (the bell) are indeed alarming, and further with additional excise revenue you do not plan to do anything. All you do is collect taxes on this balanced budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u130	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u131	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, You said we had to raise the excise duty because our salaries have increased and we haven't done it in a long time. That's a pretty weak argument, Minister. I would expect you to speak from this place of very frightening figures and facts. I think, ladies and gentlemen, if we heard this, perhaps we would even consider this difficult decision seriously. Unfortunately, we haven't heard from you, Minister, just that. Nor have we heard what kind of prevention programmes you intend to allocate these funds to. Therefore, our outrage, and at the same time the question that you really see 1700 million PLN and this is probably the most important, and you are not talking about what you want to spend. Right. I'll join my previous speakers here. Ladies and gentlemen, tell me from this podium what you're going to use it for. Maybe (the bell) for this oncology program, which is very, very necessary for Poles. Right here, right here. Perhaps then we will consider whether or not we will support this project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u132	Thank you, sir. Mr Czesław Siekierski, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u133	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Were there any analyses and studies on how this would affect the market? I mean, whether or not the consumer is going to buy products of inferior quality, which, of course, is related to the price. Will the processor not produce goods that will not keep quality standards? Will the producer of raw material, the farmer, not sell it at lower prices? All participants in this chain, especially traders, will want to keep their profits, so who will ultimately bear these costs? That, of course, sounds nice - a net zloty. Gross is much more than that. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's 10%. So this raise is very, very important. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u134	Thank you, sir. Mr Tadeusz Cymanski, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u135	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have the following questions for the Minister. The first question concerns cider. It's a big story, it was very loud about it at the time. And failure. There's a lot of business here and a lot of topics. This is a very good idea and a proposal at the front to reduce alcoholism and fight it. It's about cider. Are there possibilities under consideration - many different proposals are being made concerning, among others. exemptions, reliefs, etc. as regards the method of charging excise duties. Loud topic is beer and spirit. This was even mentioned at the meeting of the finance committee. The subject is difficult. Some countries, e.g. Ireland introduces these solutions with different effects and effects. This is not only about finance, but also about the structure of consumption. It's a very interesting subject. The beer is 58% consumption, excise duty is 30%. With high-interest alcohol, it's the other way around. This is a phenomenon that arises from technical development issues. I have another question about cigarettes. It's about Repatyt. Is there a very interesting idea of Kraków doctors from years ago, (BELL RINGING) So 1 gr per cigarette, 20% per package, but all the money, and that's a couple hundred million, would be dedicated directly to the NFZ to fight laryngeal and lung cancer. It's radically resolved, but you smoke, you pay, you lose health. You're paying, so it's important that this money doesn't disappear. A lot of people accuse us of dying in the budget somewhere. This is a very interesting idea. Let's think about it. But if this is gonna be good, it's gonna be two or three. 3 gr, okay, I'm buying 3.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u136	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Minister Leszek Skiba, will answer questions on behalf of the government. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u137	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for the questions. It is a great pleasure to participate in an important discussion and debate on taxes on the one hand - it is indeed a tax law - and on the other hand on health protection. As I understand it, some of the questions that have been asked were about what these measures are going to do. In order to answer these questions correctly, it is worth reminding you that the government has already adopted a draft budget law for 2020 in September, in which two important things are written down. As far as the income side is concerned, the revenue from the increase in excise duty is entered there. So we're dealing with a side effect of the bill, which is an increase in tax revenue. That money's here. So that this money, the revenue resulting from the increase in excise duty, is already included in the draft budget law. That is why it is the task of the government and the Ministry of Finance to implement the plans resulting from the fact that the draft budget law assumes an increase in excise duty, and when the second party of the draft budget law is also taken into account - there is an increase in health expenditure. In 2020 total healthcare expenditure will reach 5% GDP, i.e. about PLN 109 billion. This is a significant increase in relation to GDP and, of course, growth in nominal terms. Within this framework, the NFZ budget is PLN 97 billion. So the state budget is PLN 97 billion, which the NFZ raises in the form of contributions, adds its 12 billion extra out of the budget, in addition to the expenditure of the NFZ. Within the framework of this 12 billion, there is just this 1.7, whether it will be 1.7, to finance these additional expenditures under health policy. And that's where they're all... Health policy is that all the important expenditure related to fighting, the consequences of smoking, drinking alcohol, which is what we are talking about today, is financed. So this is the question: Will the funds really go to the budget and finance health expenditure? Yes, of course. There's a need for excise revenue. What is the revenue from excise duty? In this respect, they will certainly cover this difference, i.e. the 12 billion. If 97 are contributions to the NFZ, then 12 billion are revenues needed to finance this difference. As for the gray area, it was a discussion at the committee meeting. The National Tax Administration has a lot of success, I would remind you, for example, in tobacco matters. These are analyses of the Almares Institute, independent, organized within international institutions, which show that in Poland the share of cigarettes coming from illegal sources, from abroad and from illegal production in the country is below 10%. Meanwhile, it was still 20% in 2016, so we have a deep, radical reduction in the amount of illegal cigarettes. And it's got to stop. We have the success of the National Tax Administration, so you can say... Not enough. ...that it is prepared to do so technically, organisationally, in order to counteract these risks associated with the increase in illegal cigarette sales and is also successful in the fight against illegal alcohol. Surely it can be better, and it certainly is that there is still much to do, but radically this illegal production has also been limited. There were questions about the state of public finances. The question was if they weren't okay. Today is such a special day because the OECD has published its report on the world economy. It also contains a few words about Poland and fiscal data, which have been included, economic forecasts, etc., indicate in a very optimistic way that the Polish economy or Polish public finances are in very good condition. So if someone does not believe in government forecasts, considering that they are overly optimistic, simply is distrustful of what the Council of Ministers is presenting, then the government can draw attention to today's OECD report, which says that next year the deficit of the public finance sector will be 0,6, that is, we are almost close to the level which means a zero deficit of public finances understood broadly, i.e. not only the budget, but also the NFZ, ZUS, KRUS, of course the local government units, that is the whole public finance sector. The balance is very close to zero. This forecast is also close to government estimates. The Prime Minister spoke of our respect, which is 0.4%. GDP, a small difference between the government forecast 0,4 and the OECD - 0,6, but regardless of the small difference that may result from perception, shows that the state of public finances is indeed very good. Therefore, there is no doubt that there are any turbulence resulting from recent decisions. There was also a question from Mr Cymanski about cider. Indeed, for a long time there has been a discussion on excise duty on cider, an internal discussion, of course resulting from the following thinking: cider is a product that is made from apples. In order to strengthen, support Polish Sadists, it is worth to increase activity, consumption of cider in Poland, so that these locally produced apples can be sold, are the basis for the production of cider, and then this popularity of cider would support Polish farmers. Well, the diagnosis is that you can really think about lowering this excise duty on cider. The analysis is ongoing, but a large part of the arguments indicate that barriers to the consumption of cider in Poland are primarily not due to excise duty, which is small. For the price of cider excise duty It's a very small cost. The main barriers are advertising, popularity and in this respect, if someone is a proponent of the popularity of cider, it is really worthwhile to conduct these analyses and to postulate changes in such a way as to compensate for the competition of cider with other alcohols. There was also a question of a discussion on the taxation of beer with excise duty, based on a level playing field of excise duty based on an equal amount of alcohol. Indeed, this discussion is taking place. This means that in order to respond properly to it, it is worth carrying out in-depth analyses, because we are simply dealing with a rivalry of two perspectives. The spirit industry has a different perspective, the beer industry has a different perspective. The beer industry argues that the production of this alcohol, beer, is more labor intensive, so it requires that the excise duty rate is not equal. The spirit industry points out that alcohol is alcohol and the health consequences are, you can say, equal. Regardless of who is right in this dispute, it is important to examine this discussion in an in-depth manner and to take a decision only when, you can say, all the consequences will be taken or all the analyses worked out in this regard. He hasn't made any decisions yet. Please note that any decision would have consequences to such an extent that it would prefer one of these industries. Therefore, until this is resolved, there is simply no change in the tax structure of beer and spirit products. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u138	Thank you very much, Minister. The rapporteur, Mr Henryk Kowalczyk, wants to answer the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u139	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! During the discussion held at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finances, there were two things going on. I mean, one thing. This is the financial issue that the Minister was talking about, and I will not repeat it here again. It is about marking money: as Mr Paszyk would like this money to be marked. This is not the way the budget works, sir. There are revenue and expenditure in the budget. I'm afraid so. And if all the money from every income was marked, we'd have to create thousands of special funds. That's what I'm talking about. That's the way it's supposed to be. We'd have thousands of special funds, and we'd be stuck in bureaucracy. No, no, no. Exactly the opposite. So that's one thing. But it's important here... Because there were a lot of words here, probably a little bit because of the misunderstanding of the problem when it comes to alcoholism and prevention. Because that's not the point of excise... No level of excise duty will prevent an alcoholic from reaching for alcohol. He's just gonna get more out of the house to sell. That's not what this is about. And this is an absolute misunderstanding of prevention. That is what experts said at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance. Prof. Wojciechek has made this clear - research is saying - that especially for young people who are not yet alcoholics who are just starting to drink, the price barrier is important. And if the price of alcohol is very low, then the desire to get alcohol is higher, it's very easy. If this price barrier is set above, then many people, just young people, maybe with less money, maybe students, will get less alcohol. And that's what this prevention is all about, and not, of course, that once we have a million alcoholics or some addicts, it's... Of course, they have to be helped, but these are tragedies and this is a completely different goal. And that's where the excise duty really doesn't add much. And that's a total agreement. However, excise duty is intended to prevent the emergence of alcoholism and this was the conclusion of this discussion at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance. We should consider this: what price barrier should this be so that especially young people are reluctant and easily drawn to alcohol. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u140	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, an amendment was tabled to the proposed bill, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm ordering an adjournment by noon. 21. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 mins 34 hrs. 21 min 03]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I'm reopening the session. According to Art. 14 of the Law on the Court of State at its first meeting elects members of the Court of State. I propose that, in the event of the election of the members of the Court of State, the Sejm decide to shorten the time limit laid down in the Article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and the examination of applications without being sent to the committee responsible. If I don't hear any objections, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The groups of Members have submitted proposals for the selection of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, contained in prints 16, 17 and 26. Opinions are 19 and 27. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of these proposals. I propose that, in these cases, the Sejm decide to shorten the time limits laid down in Article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 and Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The groups of Members have submitted proposals for the election of Members of the National Judicial Council. The list of candidates is print number 22. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of these proposals. I propose that, in the case of the election of Members of the National Judicial Council, the Sejm decide to shorten the deadline laid down in the Article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and the examination of applications without being sent to the committee responsible. If I don't hear any objections, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We return to the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the Solidarity Fund for Disabled Persons and some other laws. The additional report shall be in print No 25-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Tadeusz Cymanski to present an additional report (Gwar in the Chamber) and I would very much ask your Members to silence the discussions so that you can hear the rapporteur. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, please keep your conversations quiet. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u141	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I don't think I'm gonna let you down, I'm not gonna torture you too long, but I'm gonna address the most important issues. We have examined the amendments tabled at second reading. Mrs Gabriela Masłowska is voting on behalf of our club, but I would like to inform the High House that the course of this meeting of the Committee on Public Finance was more subdued, calmer than the first reading in the High House. The conclusion is as follows: The Committee on Public Finance recommends that this draft be adopted in a properly unchanged version, with minor corrections. There are minority proposals, there are amendments that have not been accepted, and the dispute is very hot and maybe even unnecessary puts a shadow on the course of this work. I hope - and this is what I want to share - that in the course of the Senate work - and this is what we recommended to ministers - perhaps the amendment tabled by the disabled environment, which could be a toning one, which actually confirms our declarations many times and confirms the practice of this fund, will find some meaning in the next work. But we're done here. Thank you for your attention and I ask the High House to vote in favour of the proposal. Thank you very much. (Applause)
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u142	Thank you, sir. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 25. The Commission also puts forward in an additional report a proposal to reject the draft law in its entirety and amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. The question was asked by Mr Sławomir Jan Piechota, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u143	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! How can one be reconciled with this great promise that you have so much about and with such an emphase on Tuesday when applying for a vote of confidence, this bill? The essence of this project is included in the change in the name of the fund. The following words are removed from the name: Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities: Support of Persons with Disabilities. Shame. How, then, can this great promise be reconciled with the removal of the tasks of the Fund, which include support for people with disabilities? Art. 1 determines the burden on this fund of expenditure on supplementary pensions already paid in May of this year and expenditure on funeral allowances. This small fund, to which about PLN 1.5 billion per year is expected to be charged with a loan (Dawn) of PLN 9 billion, i.e. six-year-old income. How can this even be combined with what you have been calling for as many times: simple decency? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u144	Thank you, sir. We proceed with the vote on the motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 209 was for, 231 against, no one stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. Minority requests from 1 to 6 and Amendments 1 and 2 have been submitted to Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Solidarity Fund Act for the Support of Persons with Disabilities. In the first minority application, the applicant shall propose to delete Article. 1 including amendments to the Solidarity Fund for Disabled Persons Act. Its adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of amendments 1 to 4 and minority proposals 2 to 6. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 200 was in favor, 235 against, holding off on 11. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. In the second minority application, the applicant shall propose to delete point 2 of Article. 1 paragraph 1. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the second minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. It was 199, 234 against, 11 stopped. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. In the first amendment to Article. 3 (1) (a) 1a applicants shall propose the new wording of point 1. Amendments 2 to 4 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments 1 to 4 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Your marshal, we've been enlisted for questions. Now it's a vote. Sit down. There was no report. I'm sorry, but I don't have an application, my fellow Member. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 235 was for, against - 59, 152 stopped. I state that the Sejm has accepted the amendments. In the third minority proposal to Article. 3 (1) (a) 1a The applicant shall propose to delete points 2 and 3. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Civic Coalition, joined the floor. One minute, sir. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u145	Thank you very much, Marshal. Prime Minister! High Izbo! This law, which really needs to be called the Solidarity Fund bombing act, has some unacceptable effects. That's what we talked about all the time when we were investigating this bill. It's like a pea against a wall all the time. Firstly, to sanction a serious violation of public finance discipline. Secondly, hitting the systemic, financial basis for helping people with disabilities. It's really hard to say something good about such a disgraceful idea that most people are trying to push through parliament today. And the third thing, this law sanctiones the looting of PLN 9 billion from the Demographic Reserve Fund, i.e. it de facto undermines the stability of pension payments for future generations. And, of course, one question that most people keep avoiding the answer to: How is that supposed to be a loan, and with what means this loan will be repaid (the bell), since the only influence is these funds... Thank you, sir. ...which involve helping people with disabilities? Explain that to us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u146	Thank you, sir. Mr Grzegorz Schreiber, I am sorry, Łukasz Schreiber. You're welcome, sir. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u147	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I must say that for many days, both during the debate on the Prime Minister's exposé and today, the left part of this room raises completely disgusting arguments. But it's real. You're disgusting. You're trying to expose people with disabilities to pensioners, you're trying to create the impression that anything has been taken from people with disabilities, which is simply not true. And remember how much money from this fund came when you were in charge. Zero, nothing, because that fund just wasn't there. [[Applause]] What are you talking about? High Izbo! I want a clear message to go that nothing, not a penny, is taken from people with disabilities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u148	Thank you, sir. Minister Swed wants to answer. Minister Stanisław Szwed. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u149	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Several times it has been said that we are not taking any funds from the Solidarity Fund for people with disabilities. I ask the opposition not to lie again. [[Applause]] The funds we spend on supporting people with disabilities in the last 4 years have increased by PLN 5 billion. In this is the last project that was introduced by us, or 500 PLN for people who are independent. This additionally supports people with disabilities. These are the resources that are meant to be. They will continue with the Solidarity Fund. The Solidarity Fund changes its name because we also include support for pensioners and pensioners. You should've paid those pensions from the Social Security Office. There is no danger for people with disabilities. Don't tell me we're taking anything from people with disabilities. We're putting in extra resources. All these tasks, which are intended for disabled people, will continue. [[Applause]] It's a loan.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u150	Thank you, Minister. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members took part in the vote. 207 was for, against - 235, 9 stopped. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. In the 4th minority proposal to Article. Article 6b (6) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: The applicant shall propose to delete points 2 and 3. Mr Szczerba, the Civic Coalition, joined the question. You're welcome. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u151	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This project shows that people with disabilities are treated by you completely instrumentally. But this project also deceives Polish pensioners and pensioners. That's not true. This project has nothing to do with the thirteenth pension you promised the Poles and Poles in 2020. The Solidarity Fund is to cover the financial support of pensioners and pensioners referred to in separate provisions. The only reference in the separate provisions of this Act is the reference to the Act of 4 April 2019 and this Act concerns a single payment for pensioners in 2019. In other words, this whole bill is one big bill of account. Polish pensioners have so far no guarantee of the thirteenth pension in 2020 (the bell) and this law does not change anything. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u152	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 4th minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. It was 205, 234 against, holding off on 11. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. In the 5th minority proposal, applicants propose to retain the existing wording of the Article. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3. We'll proceed with the vote. Marshal, I'm in the voice. It's not my fault... Good. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u153	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! The financial plan of the Solidarity Fund at this moment appears to represent 13 million loans at 17 billion in revenue. You have already paid 4 billion out of the Labour Fund for supplementary benefits for independent people, that is already in the plan, and now you want to borrow 9 billion from the Demographic Reserve Fund for the refinancing of the thirteenth pension, attention, already paid by the Social Security Office - not for the next year, but for the one that retired people and pensioners received in May this year. And what's the point of all this dwarf legal construction? The Solidarity Fund and its expenditure and commitments do not fall into what? - in a stabilizing spending rule. You're actually doing creative accounting just because the spending rule, Mr. President, doesn't allow you to spend extra money anymore. Thank you, Member. Stop doing creative accounting. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u154	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 217 - for, 233 - against, no one held back. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. In the 6th minority application, applicants propose not to add Article. 18a and Article 18a 31a. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska put herself to the question. You're welcome. One minute, Member. Is that what he's going back for? He's going back and forth.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u155	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, One of the points of this law, which really is the key to the whole of this law, is what I was just talking about: the funds for the reimbursement of the single payment for pensioners paid from the Social Insurance Fund will be the cost of the Solidarity Fund. For three days I've been asking the Minister of Finance why you're building this legal structure, and I think you're just trying to hide the violation of public finance discipline, and you're really trying to hide the fact that the government broke the law and broke the stabilizing spending rule, violated the discipline of public finances. Not much, in the original submission, you wanted to introduce these provisions with legal effect from 1 May 2019, but the Legislative Office He wouldn't let you do that. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, will I finally find out what the real purpose is... Thank you, Member. ...sacrificing this bill? [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u156	Mrs Magdalena Beyat, Left, also joined the question. You're welcome, my fellow Member. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u157	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! You say you don't take money from people with disabilities. Let me remind you that the money that is now in the Solidarity Fund... Those programs that finance it, they're pilots. The fund hasn't worked for a year. We are not able to assess whether this money is sufficient or not, although we are actually able to say with a fairly high degree of probability that it is not enough to provide independent lives for people with disabilities. The question is: Where will you get more money for projects that allow people with disabilities to live on their own? You say you give pensioners and rencists, but at the same time you take money from the Demographic Reserve Fund, from which we will finance all our pensions in the future, when generation replacement is over. So what is your plan to develop programs for people with disabilities so that they can live independently and decently? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What's your plan... Thank you, Member. ...for the retirement system, so we can all have a safe future? Because right now, the Prime Minister in his exposé is making promises that he can't cover. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u158	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Zbigniew Girzyński, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u159	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The worst part is if someone believes in their own propaganda. [[Touchdown, fun in the hall, applause]] Oh! Bravo! Ladies and gentlemen, no one... Shame. He's got it all figured out. I'm glad you can see... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Some Members chant: Zbyszek! Zbyszek! Zbyszek! I'm glad you can see that. Well, you're talking about the sustainability of public finances, when it's your parties, the Civic Platform and the PSL... Go on, go on. ...have led to this - they took over public finances in 2007 with a deficit at the lowest level since the political change in Poland after 1989, because at the level of 16 billion - that in just three years our debts have accelerated to 50 billion. And you're talking about the sustainability of public finances... And the world crisis? When did the government finally arrive (the bell), which after 4 years led to the elimination of the budget deficit for the first time in history, for 30 years? Did you hear about the crisis? Please stop believing in your own propaganda. [[Applause]] Did you hear about the crisis? Bravo, Zbyszek!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u160	Thank you. Time has been added because of the applause that has prevented you from completing your question. But he deserved it. He deserved it. He should've told me how many times he cleaned up... Minister Stanisław Szwed. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u161	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, Madam, I would like to ask the Member who had just arrived - a few facts. It's worth reminding them again. In the debate, we have discussed this, once again what resources are spent on individual actions. The program of care services for people with disabilities - 32 million PLN already spent, 320 municipalities participates in this programme, the budget - 60 million PLN. These appropriations shall also be provided in the next year's budget. Retirement care - 24 million... [[Voice from the room: Not working)]] It's working. ...300 municipalities received funds, a budget of 110 million. Next year, we're keeping that up. The care and residential centers - today more than 50 million. The programme is also being launched, it will continue. The personal assistant of a disabled person - 50 million... But these are programs... ...can be applied for. These amounts will also be maintained next year. Supplementary provision for people unable to live independently - this year 812 million PLN, next year - 4.5 billion PLN. $850,000. It's a program that's been used. All these appropriations are entered in the budget for next year. This will continue, and don't be afraid that these measures will be missing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u162	Thank you, Minister. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 203 was for, 235 against, 11 stopped. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. In the 7th minority proposal to Article. 59 (1) (a) 1 The Social Insurance Act proposes not to add point 4. The question is asked by Michał Szczerba, the Civic Coalition. One minute, sir. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u163	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment concerns a loan you want to borrow from the Demographic Reserve Fund in the amount of PLN 9 billion, but this loan is to be repaid. You write in the draft return law within the deadline specified in the loan agreement. Prime Minister! The simple question is: When will this loan be returned to the Demographic Reserve Fund? Because it's a black-hour security. Second thing. This fund was intended not only to support people with disabilities but also to support the so-called. accessibility of people with special needs. In a situation like this, when you put everything into a single fund, will there be no shortage of funds for the purpose assigned to it in the Accessibility Act? It goes on, among other things. about older people, about independent people, about 470 thousand. Poles and Poles with dementia, Alzheimer's disease. It is also (the bell) about the so-called. Third and fourth floor prisoners. Thank you, sir. There's not enough resources to equip these buildings with elevators. They'll be prisoners forever. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u164	Thank you very much, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 7th minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. It was 202, 234 against, 13 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. In Amendment 5, applicants propose a different date for the entry into force of the Act. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. Mr Mirosław Suchoń will ask the question, the Civic Coalition. Please, sir. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u165	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The honourable Minister of Sweden was kind with this speaker to ensure that people with disabilities will not lose any of the money from this fund. But, Minister, coffee on the bench: How are you going to repay the 9 billion debt you've incurred on the 13th pension payments through this Solidarity Fund? Where are you gonna get the money for that? Thieves. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 59 Act on the insurance system you enter the obligation to return these 9 billion PLN. So there are two options: either this is windy and there will be no return, you will take a loan and you will simply never give it back and future pensioners will suffer from it, or you will pay it from the Solidarity Fund, i.e. from the funds that were supposed to go to help people with disabilities. Please, step out here and have coffee on the bench and tell everyone what this money will be returned from. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u166	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 247 was for, 182 against, 22 stopped. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the whole draft law, but three people signed up to the question. Mrs Iwona Hartwich, Civic Coalition. You're welcome. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u167	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I've been wondering long enough when I'm gonna be, you know, almost alone with Mr. Jarosław Kaczyński... Oh... ...who I invited for 40 days of protest in 2018, and what I'm going to tell him. [[Applause]] Ha, ha, ha! Member, but please don't take this kind of personal trip. And let me tell you this: you know perfectly well, today your party is associated with closed toilets for people with disabilities, [[Applause]] closed windows... Yes, sir. Bravo! ...with humiliation and humiliation of people with disabilities. I wanted to tell you that people with disabilities -- I'm talking to you because I know that you're the only one who can do a lot -- they don't have orthopedic shoes, they don't have rehab tours, they're waiting three months for pampers' refunds, they don't have personal assistants, they have a starving social pension. So I ask you very much on behalf of these thousands of people so that you do not boast that you gave 500 PLN for people with disabilities (the bell), because - perhaps no one told you - you gave it from the criterion. Thank you. [[Applause]] Bravo! Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u168	Thank you, Member. Ms Agnieszka Chasing, PSL-Kukiz15. You're welcome. One minute, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u169	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This is not a political protest. This is a political protest... Sit there, Tarsinski, don't bother women. Madam, I ask you very much to allow me to speak with you, okay? Prime Minister! I'm here to see the Prime Minister because I've asked that question before. Prime Minister, the nationwide association for the mentally impaired with its own sumpt, thanks to its own efforts it received 4.5 million grants in Miechów for the opening of... Get in the microphone. ...120 places for disabled children. I wrote to the Prime Minister a letter, very personal, asking you to save this investment. I counted those investments. approx. 11 in Poland. They didn't have enough after the construction contracts. They didn't have a million to finish it. That's 120 rehab places for kids. They must have given that donation back, Prime Minister. It lasted seven months. I've been to the ministers, they've paid off 4.5 million. There's a lot of places like this. The Farm of Life near Krakow - the only place that parents have started - falls. There's no money. And this is the only place that provides care for autistic children. You've been waiting there for 11 years. Minister! The Minister was (the bell) the head of PFRON. You know how many non-governmental organisations are waiting for such proposals. Thank you, Member. Now can you tell them they're not gonna make it? [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u170	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Joanna Senyshin, Left. One minute, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u171	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Deputy Minister keeps saying that this fund of solidarity with disabled people is enlarged. But let's be clear, this is just a fictional magnification, accounting. On the other hand, immediately after enlargement it is taken away. We keep hearing that people with disabilities from this fund will get 50 million next year for this, 100 million for this. But if you hadn't taken those billions that were accounted for, they'd have gotten maybe five times more, maybe ten times more. So stop cheating that you're increasing anything. It's just accounting, it's creative accounting that doesn't give anything to the disabled. But you deceive them and give them less than you can give them, since this fund (the bell) is supposed to be enlarged. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u172	Thank you, Member. Finally, Mrs Urszula Rusecka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u173	Ladies and gentlemen! The Government of Law and Justice has been supporting people with disabilities since the beginning of its operation, building a coherent, comprehensive support system for them, a system that was simply not there. Don't believe in your own propaganda. The demagogue you had during this debate is embarrassing. People with disabilities listen to us. Over 5 billion more... Exactly. Exactly. ...for the support of people with disabilities. And why isn't there an orthopedic shoe? And the state and you were against the creation of the Solidarity Fund, and you said that the 13th pension was pre-election charity, so you have no moral right to speak. I ask you to vote in favour of this bill. [[Applause]] Oh! Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u174	Thank you, Member. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 25, along with the amendments adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. It was 233, 215 against, no one held back. The Sejm passed a law amending the Solidarity Fund for Disabled Persons Act and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 17 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law amending the excise duty Act. We proceed to the third reading. The additional committee reports shall be in print No 24-A. I ask Mr Henryk Kowalczyk to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u175	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! One amendment was tabled during the second reading of the draft law amending the excise duty Act. The Commission has examined and delivered an opinion on this amendment. It recommends rejecting the amendment and recommends that the entire bill be adopted at the same time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u176	Thank you, sir. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 24. The Commission also presents an amendment on which the Sejm will vote first. In the amendment, the applicant proposes to add a new article in the draft amending act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, PSL - Kukiz15, joined the question. You're welcome. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u177	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! The government reaches to the pockets of Poles and Poles by methods that were present, Prime Minister, in the end of the Polish People's Republic... In 2014 the Council ...on the pretext of caring for the health of Poles. Prime Minister! If the budget is actually in good condition - you have ensured this for months - and if you want to take care of the health of Poles, then support the amendment of the Polish People's Party, which concreteizes where this money from increased excise duty for cigarettes and alcohol is to hit. We propose that this money, which will be quite large - you predict almost PLN 2 billion - will come to a very specific goal: the National Programme for the Control of Cancer Diseases, the programme proposed by you. [[Applause]] Cigarettes are cancers, so let's really use money to treat Poles, not toss them in the budget bag. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u178	Thank you, sir. One more question, Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition. Please, sir, Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u179	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We're talking about an increase in excise duty on alcohol and tobacco. Of course, the facts are that you need PLN 1700 million, because the budget without a deficit cannot be balanced. The most disgusting thing about this case, High Izbo, is that Prime Minister Morawiecki is using this raise to pretend that he was interested in the health of Poles - interviews sponsored in Super Express - and noticed that there is alcoholism in Poland, and that tobacco kills in Poland. Mr. President! I don't know if you're aware of that, but 80%. burning Poles would like to quit this habit. They have one problem: there are no anti-smoking clinics in Poland. In fact, there are five in all of Poland. The first visit to such a clinic costs NFZ 40 PLN. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's why there are no volunteers... Thank you, sir. ...to cure Poles from addiction. Lung cancer is the primary killer of women - it occurs much more often than breast cancer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u180	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Winnicki, Confederation. Time - 1 minute. Is Mr Robert Winnicki resigning? Oh, no, I'm sorry. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen... Excuse me, the Minister of Health, Mr Łukasz Szumowski, wants to answer. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u181	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for caring about oncology patients. It is a pity that the national cancer plan has not been adopted in eight years of government. [[Applause]] Don't lie to me. Ha, ha, ha! Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. This plan has only been adopted now. Thank you for your concern. Why go out if there's nothing to say? The funding of the national cancer plan is assured. In addition to cancer, there are, of course, various other diseases in Poland that kill patients, e.g. Cardiovascular disease. As a cardiologist, I must make you aware that this is the most common cause of death of patients in Poland. This money should also be used to treat cardiovascular diseases, including stroke or heart failure. At the same time, I would like to say that this money is spent on the treatment of different disease units and it is difficult to identify which ones. Thanks to the fact that we have a law of 6% , we guarantee that the money that goes to the budget will be spent on the treatment of Polish patients according to the percentages that are specified in the bill. What's 6%? ? So that I thank you very much for your concern, but so far the National Programme for the Control of Cancer Diseases has its funding and it is provided. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u182	Thank you, Minister. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 201 was for, 236 against, 12 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. First the questions. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition. Time - 1 minute. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u183	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have a question for the Prime Minister. When is the Prime Minister telling the truth? When you sign the project... Never. Always. ...higher excise duty on alcohol and tobacco, or when he says that this project has no fiscal purpose? Prime Minister! If it does not have a fiscal purpose and you say that it is a project supporting health programmes, then why don't you use it for the National Health Fund for hospitals that are indebted to 97%? [[Applause]] Yes, sir. Why don't you give the S.O.R. where the queues are and the patients have to wait a long time? [[Applause]] Why aren't you putting this aid into health care? Prime Minister! When are you lying? When you sign up for this project, do you take taxes and not consult the industry, or when you speak in the paper and do propaganda? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u184	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, PSL-Kukiz15. You're welcome. Time -1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u185	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! It's amazing what's happened in this room. This is perhaps the first Minister of Health in the history of the Third Republic, who does not want any additional money for health protection. [[Applause]] Minister! You know as well as I do that 100,000. Poles die of cancer every year, including 30,000. prematurely due to lack of access to appropriate methods, and you despise the 2 billion zlotys we want to give you. This is unbelievable. [[Applause]] To the Prime Minister and to the Minister of Finance: Prime Minister, you know this. Raising excise duty is a gray area, which is in many cases reducing the impact on the budget. Do we want to cross again, so that on the daily basis in Poland there are dens? Prime Minister, I ask you to reflect. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u186	Thank you, sir. Mr Artur Dziambor, Confederation. You're welcome. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u187	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Prime Minister! It's a random order. Ladies and gentlemen, what have we got? We have a government policy that just preys on big groups. We've got millions of smokers, so what? The tax will be easy to collect, and yet you can sell that it's for your health. Drinking alcohol, we have millions - it will be the same. We've got millions of fat, so let's charge them a sugar tax. We have millions of drivers, so let's charge them even higher rates of all parking tickets. [[Applause]] Not at all. You're gonna charge all the Poles anyway because you have a huge budget problem. I have a specific question for the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister: How much is missing in the budget, the beautiful budget you are selling as something new, innovative, as a budget without deficit? What amount will be patched with the things you want to introduce in the first week of this Sejm? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bulls.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u188	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Łukasz Schreiber, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u189	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I feel like we're witnessing some kind of hypocritical festival. Question, question. You didn't ask any questions either... Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Accession. I hear from the representatives of PSL that the increase in excise duty is an increase in the grey zone. Let me remind you that this was the last time excise duty was increased in 2014. You admit that that's how you worked with the Platform. [[Applause]] Case number two. High Izbo! Health care. 76 billion at the end of your reign. Today, more than 100 billion and that is a fact, that is the real achievement of this government and the Prime Minister. [[Applause]] And people die in the S.R.S.? They're contributions. You didn't do it. And finally the budget. Again, for six years, the convergence criterion, when you rule, was exceeded by 7% over GDP, and that was okay. Today, when there's a balanced budget, you have a problem with that. What balance? And you have the audacity to say and ask in an impudent manner when the Prime Minister is telling the truth (the bell) and when he is lying? Time. The Prime Minister is telling the truth, and that is your biggest problem. Thank you. [[Applause]] Question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u190	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Paweł Krutul, Left. Please, time - 1 minute. Where's the question? But don't yell. Why are you screaming like that? What are you paying attention to?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u191	Mr President, in theory, you are really strong. Ladies and gentlemen, a medal for lobbyists when it comes to alcohol companies - 100% Polmos and breweries are in foreign hands. They're gonna charge their pockets. The Poles will lose on this, and the gray zone will rise. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u192	Thank you, sir. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 24 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 243 was for, 201 against, 7 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the excise tax law. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Election of Members of the Court of State (Prints Nos 23 and 23-A). According to Art. Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Constitution of the Sejm shall elect two alternates and 16 members of the Court of State. I ask that Mrs Anna Milczanowska speak in order to present the candidate for Deputy President of the Court of State of Mr Piotr Łukasz Andrzejewski and candidates for members of the Court of State: Mr Andrzej Kojra, Mrs Iwony Olejnik and Mr Maciej Gustav Zaborowski, submitted by Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u193	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! The candidate's life story, along with the justification, Mr.Peter Łukasz Juliusz Andrzejewski. He was born on 2 January 1942 in Warsaw. In 1964 he graduated from the University of Warsaw and received a discharge from the history of art at the same university. After taking the judge's application and taking the judge's exam, he started the lawyer's application. After taking the bar exam, he started his lawyer's practice in 1971. He was involved with the democratic opposition. At the turn of August and September 1980, he was the first legal consultant of the Inter-Business Straikov Committee based in Huta Katowice, and as a representative of this committee he was the author of the first application for registration of the Independent Self-Governmental Trade Union in the Voivodeship Court in Warsaw. After the introduction of the martial law, he was a defender in numerous political processes of NSZZ's activists, including the first trial of the martial law of employees of the Institute of Nuclear Research from Warsaw Żerania. At the First National Bar Meeting in 1983, he publicly condemned human rights violations during the martial law period. At the request of the authorities of that time, eight disciplinary matters were brought before him under the pretext of violating freedom of speech. As a result of one of them, after an emergency review brought before the Supreme Court by the Minister of Justice, he was deprived of his right to pursue his profession for a year. He was one of the initiators of the re-registration of the NSZZ Joint Committees and represented about 40 such committees in the courts. In the June 1989 elections, he was a member of the State Election Commission as a representative of the civil committee at Lech Wałęsie. On the day of voting for the Sejm and the Senate, he effectively opposed manipulations to change the results of the so-called. the national list. Since 1983, he has been a member of the Helsinki Committee's conspiracy-documentary structure and later a member of the founder of the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights. From 15 December 1991 to 6 September 1992, he served as the Director-General of the liquidation of the existing structures of the State Organizational Unit (Radio and Television). Author of the Law on the Return of Benefits obtained unjustly at the expense of the State Treasury and NSZZ representative of Solidarity in processes based on it. Member of the Constitutional Commission of the NSZZ (Solidarity) and centre-right groups. Head of the Legal and Justice Department. Co-author of the civil draft constitution. Member of the Constitutional Commission of the National Assembly, Chairman of the subcommittee of the sources of law. In the Senate, he was a member of the Committee on Human Rights and the rule of law, the Committee on Local Government and the Committee on Initiatives and Legislative Rights. He was also chairman of the Extraordinary Committee on legislative initiative on amending the rules on Polish citizenship and Vice-President of the Commission for Initiatives and Legislative Work. In Senate IV, he presided over the Legislative Commission and was a member of the Committee on Culture and Media. In the Senate, he was chairman of the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs and a member of the Legislative Committee. Between 2015 and 2019 he was a member of the Court of State. He was and he's partyless. Married and has four children. Both education and extensive professional experience indicate that Mr Piotr Łukasz Juliusz Andrzejewski is a good candidate for deputy president of the Court of State. Mr. Andrzej Kojra's life story, along with his reasons. Mr Andrzej Kojro was born on 9 April 1963 in Minsk Mazowiecki. He is a legal adviser related to the RWE Poland energy group. In 2015, he was active in the Presidential Legal Assistance Office of President Andrzej Duda. He provided free legal advice in cooperation with MEP Janusz Wojciechowski. In previous years, he served as a permanent councilman at the seat of the "Solidarity" in Minsk Mazowiecki. He's an experienced self-government officer. Between 1990 and 2010 he was a councilman at all levels of Polish self-government. He served as a councilman in the rural commune of Minsk Mazowiecki, in the city of Minsk Mazowiecki, in the Minsk district, and in the Mazowieckie voivodeship. From 1993 to 1998 he was a member of the Municipal and Municipal Board of the OSP in Minsk Mazowiecki. In addition, he was a member of the Regional Nature Conservation Commission of the Mazowieckie Voivodeship in 1999 and a member of the Social Council of the hospital in Rudka in 1999 and 2003. Frost. Between 1997 and 2001 he was a social assistant of Senator Jerzy Baranowski from AWS. He is currently not a member of the political party. In 1988 he graduated from the Faculty of Law and Administration at the University of Warsaw. He has the right to pursue the profession of legal counsel. In 2000, he completed postgraduate studies in electrical energy management at the Higher School of Entrepreneurship and Management. Leon Kozminski in Warsaw. He passed a state exam for candidates for members of supervisory boards. His professional experience includes working as a lawyer - legal counsel at RWE Energia. A long-term employer's attorney. Lawyer coordinator in the legal service of RWE Stoen SA in Warsaw. Specialist at the Ministry of Interior in Warsaw. Inner Control Team of the Prague South District in Warsaw. Assistant District Prosecutor's Office in Minsk Mazowiecki. Both education and extensive professional experience indicate that Mr Andrzej Kojro is a good candidate for a judge of the State Court. The candidate's life story along with the justification of Mrs Iwona Olejnik, who was born on 18 September 1980 in Przemyśl. He's a legal advisor by education. After completing the solicitor's application entered on the list of legal counsels led by the District Chamber of Legal Counsels in Rzeszów. He has a PhD degree in humanities. The main issue of the doctoral thesis was the issue of support for Polish families. Graduated from Rzeszowski University of Law. For more than 5 years he has been the President of the Management Board of the company Uzdrowisko Rymanów with its registered office in Rymanów-Zdroj, one of the largest spas in Poland and at the same time the largest spa in Podkarpackie Voivodeship. In the run-up to the appointment of President of the Management Board, she was the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of that company. He has many years of experience as a lawyer. She was a legal adviser at the Provincial Road Traffic Centre in Przemyśl. She gained experience in the creation and application of law, among others. in the Faculty of Legislation in the Department of Legal Affairs of the National Bank of Poland in Warsaw. Both education and extensive professional experience indicate that Mrs Iwona Olejnik is a good candidate for a judge of the Court of State. The candidate's life story together with the justification of Mr Maciej Gustav Zaborowski, who is a lawyer, lecturer, certified mediator and social activist. Born 10 February 1984 Graduate of the Faculty of Law and Administration at the University of Warsaw. He also graduated from Harvard Law School and postgraduate studies of intellectual property law at the Faculty of Law and Administration of the University of Warsaw, as well as postgraduate studies of evidence law at the Faculty of Law and Administration of the University of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński. He also took a lawyer's application in the Bar Association in Warsaw completed with a given bar exam. He is also a graduate of international studies, a joint initiative of the state university in Florida and the Faculty of Law and Administration of the University of Warsaw. He was a member of the leaders of civil society founded by Prof. Zbigniew Pełczyński from Oxford University in the UK and the Academy of Young Diplomacy European Academy of Diplomacy, specialization of foreign service. Currently, he is also in the process of writing a doctoral thesis in criminal law. He gained his professional experience, among others. in several well-known Warsaw law firms, as well as in the Embassy of the Republic of Rome, the Ministry of Justice and the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, where he was co-authored, among others. the report of the committee of inquiry to examine the course of the legislative process by amending the law of 29 July 1992 on games and bets and their implementing rules. Author of numerous legal opinions related to the legislative process, including those implemented, among others. on behalf of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers. A professional mediator of the Mediation Centre at the Chief Bar Council and a lecturer on the bar application in the Bar Association in Warsaw. Currently, as a lawyer, he is the managing partner of Kopeć Zaborowski. Expert of the Ministry of Justice on changes in criminal law. Co-author of the revision of the Penal Code, the Penal Code of Enforcement... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please turn the conversation down, because you really can't hear. ... Code of Criminal Procedure, e.g. in the field of so-called confiscation of extended, extended criminal liability, judicial experts, so-called offences of non-alination and liability of collective entities for acts prohibited under criminal penalties. From an early age, he has been involved in pro activities. publico bono, including e.g. as p.o.p. Chairman of the Foundation Foundation Founders' Board. Winner of prestigious legal awards. In February 2018, elected by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland for the 8th term of office as Judge of the Court of State. In February 2019 awarded by the President of the Republic of Poland the Medal of the Centennial of Recovered Independence for social and professional activities, in particular for pro activities publico bono and youth education. Both the education and the rich experience of Mr Maciej Gustav Zaborowski indicate that he is a good candidate for a judge of the State Court. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u194	Thank you, Member. [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please, if you are not interested in moving on to the clowns, because this really bothers you very much. That's the kind of noise she was talking about. There you go, you can go out in the cockroaches. And the Council of Ministers, too? Let us take the floor in peace. I would very much like to ask Mr Robert Kropiwnicki to speak in order to present the candidate for Deputy President of the Court of State Mr Mark Chmaj and candidates for members of the Court of State: Mr Jack Dubois, Mr Zdzisław Gawlik, Mr Witold Pahl and Mr Tomasz Zalasiński, submitted by Members of the Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u195	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It was my honor to present an outstanding group of lawyers - candidates for the State Court. As Vice-President of the Court of State, we propose Professor Marek Chmaj, who is a doctor of legal sciences and a title professor - he received this title from Professor Lech Kaczyński in 2009. He is currently head of the Department of Public Law at SWPS University, running his own law firm with his partners. He is a member of the Polish Constitutional Law Society. He has repeatedly been a proxy in various difficult cases before the Supreme Court, the Supreme Administrative Court or the Constitutional Tribunal, as well as in many cases in the general court. He's publishing, and he's publishing a lot. Recently he published a commentary on the constitution, to the article. 30 and 31 and for Articles 30 and 31. 11 and 13. These are last year's publications. Professor Marek Chmaj is also the arbitration judge at the District Chamber of Legal Counsels in Warsaw and the Court of Arbitration at the National Chamber of Commerce in Warsaw. It's a very good, serious piece of work. It is one of the more active constitutionalists currently operating, making a lot of expertise for the Sejm Analysis Office or for the Senate Analysis Office. So that's the person I highly recommend to you as a candidate for Vice-President of the Court of State. Another person I wanted to propose on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club as a member of the Court of State is patron Jacek Dubois, who is Warsawian, also graduated from the Faculty of Law and Administration in Warsaw. Since 1995 he has been a partner in the law firm Potoj Dubois Kosińska-Kozak Law Firm. He has been sitting at the Court of State since 2012. He was also his vice-president in that term, and he was a judge of the Court of State in the last term. As part of his professional practice, he specializes in criminal law, he has a great deal of experience in criminal matters. He is one of the more recognized Polish carnivalists. He holds lectures at many universities on criminal law and training for legal advisers. He has repeatedly performed at various legal conferences, published in various legal texts. Therefore, Mr Jacek Dubois is perfectly prepared to serve as a member of the Court of State. In the course of his professional activity, the candidate demonstrated a high level of substantive knowledge and integrity of his character, which guarantees that the candidate fulfils the duties of a member of the Court of State properly. The next candidate I wanted to propose is Prof. Zdzisław Gawlik, whom some of the country may know. He was a member of the eighth term. Since 1993 he has been an academic teacher at Maria Curie-Skłodowska University and then at Rzeszów University. He started out as an assistant, then he worked as an assistant, now he's a habilitated doctor. He specializes in civil law. He's a promoter of dozens of master's degrees and three doctoral tubes. Currently he is a researcher in the cathedral of civil law and labour law of the Faculty of Law of the University of Rzeszów. He is the author of two books on the legal aspects of the privatisation of enterprises. Professor Zdzisław Gawlik, as I said, was a member of the eighth term and all his achievements... He really is a recognized civilist, respected professor, and he was also a very good fellow Member. He is an excellent expert in many matters, especially in civil law and energy law issues. All of this predisposes the professor to recommend him as a member of the Court of State. It perfectly meets the legal requirements of the candidates for this position. In the course of his professional and social activities, the candidate has demonstrated a high level of substantive knowledge and integrity of his character, which guarantees that the candidate fulfils the duties of a member of the Court of State properly. Another person I'd like to introduce to you and whom I'd like to ask for your support is you. Dr. Witold Pahl, whom some of you might associate. He has been a Member for many years, for two terms, from 2007 to 2015. Earlier he graduated from law school at Adam Mickiewicz University. In 2015, he obtained a PhD degree in Legal Science. In 1987, he completed his judicial application in the Gorzów Voivodeship Court, and later until 1990 he ruled as an assistant in the Gorzów District Court in the Penalty Department and in the family and minors department. Dr. Witold Pahl was a member of the National Public Prosecutor's Office in the years 2011 and 2013 and 2015 - a member of the National Judicial Council, and was the first Deputy President of the Capital City of Warsaw in 2016 and 2018. Since 2015, he has also been a member of the Court of State for the High House. The candidate in his professional activity has proven a high level of substantive knowledge, integrity of character, which guarantees that he will perform his duties as a member of the Court of State fairly. Another candidate I would like to propose to the High House, which I have the honour to present - this is our last candidate - is Dr. Tomasz Zalasiński, legal adviser who graduated from the Faculty of Law, Administration and Economics at the University of Wrocław in 2002. This year he started his doctoral studies, which he graduated in 2006, obtaining a PhD in legal sciences. He has been scientific in his work and is still working on the principles of correct legislation. Its publication, in the light of the views of the Constitutional Tribunal, was published by the Sejm Publishing House. In 2006, he was appointed by the Ombudsman as a member of the Committee of Experts on Civil Rights. Cheers. Dr. Tomasz Zalasiński is an active member of social and civic organizations. He is a member of the Management Board of the Association. Prof. Zbigniew Holdy, Polish Constitutional Law Society and a number of other legal organizations. He also wrote part of his commentary on the constitution under the editorial board of Professor Leszek Garlicki. His entire record gives a recommendation that he will be a reliable member of the Court of State. This is guaranteed by its impeccable character, as well as by its high substantive knowledge. I ask the High House to support these five candidates I have submitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u196	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Jan Mosiński to present the candidates for the members of the Court of State: Mr Mark Czeszkiewicz, Mr Piotr Jóźwiak and Mr Paul Śliwy, submitted by Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u197	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I was honoured to present the High House with three excellent candidates for the members of the Court of State. I will start with Mr Marek Czeszkiewicz, who was born on 2 September 1961 in Augustów. Lawyer, Judge of the Court of State of the 8th term of office of the Sejm and inter alia Former District Attorney, Deputy Regional Prosecutor in Bialystok, Head of the Delegation of the Central Anti-corruption Office in Rzeszów, Counsellor of the Marshal of the Sejm, member of the Bar Application Examination Board at the Minister of Justice. Marek Czeszkiewicz graduated from the Faculty of Law at the University of Bialystok, which graduated in honour in 1998. He received an honorary diploma. He also graduated with honors from Postgraduate Studies of Evidence Law at the University of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński, as well as postgraduate Studies of Organized Crime and Terrorism at the Faculty of Law and Administration of the University of Warsaw. He also graduated from the Postgraduate Tax Law Studies at the Faculty of Law and Administration of the University of Bialystok and the School of Public Administration in Bialystok. He has a safety clearance for the highest clauses. He participated in the preparation and creation of specialized government programs as well as resort programs. He conducted trainings and specialized courses for solicitors, legal advisers and public administration bodies, including universities, schools, state police and other services in various fields and fields of law. He participated in the preparation and creation of legislative projects, among others. The Marshal's Watch. Rewarded many times for results and achievements. He is the author of numerous publications, among others. in the field of combating organised crime in Poland, an anonymous witness, i.e. incognito, prohibition of evidence concerning attorney-client privilege in the Polish criminal trial, tax advisory model implemented in Poland, etc. In addition, he has professional experience as a teacher as well as a director. In the 1980s, he was a natural worker and a farmer. He has the status of an anti-communist opposition activist and a politically repressed person. Relegated from the first year of his studies at the Białostocka University of Technology in 1982, i.e. during the martial law period, and in 1984 - from the branch of the Białystok University of Agricultural Farms, also from the first year of his studies. On the basis of the secret directive of 21 October 1982 issued by the MON and the Security Service, selected together with 385 persons in the country for continuous surveillance and submission with these persons to various repressions. For many years, pro bono activities have also been sacrificed, among others. participated as a volunteer in direct aid during the floods in Tarnobrzeg and Sandomierz in 2010 and Wrocław in 1997. He is also a volunteer at the hospice, among others. A Foundation for Children with Cancer Diseases and Caritas. Member of the NSZZ (Solidarity) and the NZS (Solidarity) in the 1980s. He is also an instructor of the Polish Scouts Association. Mr Marek Czeszkiewicz is a partyless person. Mr Marek Czeszkiewicz, both in the course of his professional and social activities, proved a high level of substantive knowledge and integrity of his character, which guarantees that the candidate fulfils the duties of a member of the Court of State properly. Both education and extensive professional experience indicate that Mr Marek Czeszkiewicz is a good candidate for a judge of the Court of State. High Izbo! Another candidacy. A life story with a reason. Mr Piotr Jóźwiak was born on 14 July 1984 in Zary. Between 1999 and 2003, he attended the First High School in Leszno. After his graduation, he took a higher degree in law at the Faculty of Law and Administration at the University. Adam Mickiewicz in Poznań. He graduated with a very good diploma. In 2007 and 2008 he graduated from the Academy of European and Polish Company Law at the Warsaw School of Economics. He also graduated with a very good diploma. Immediately after graduating from his master's degree, he began his doctoral studies at the Faculty of Law and Administration of the University. Adam Mickiewicz in Poznań, completed in 2013 with a PhD in legal sciences. He is currently preparing a rehabilitation hearing entitled: A model of repressive liability in local government law. Mr Piotr Jóźwiak from 2008 to June 2012 was an attorney at the Wielkopolska Bar Association, then from August 2013 to December 2014, after being listed as a lawyer, he first led the Individual Lawyer's Office, then he was a partner in a civil company. On 27 December 2014, he was appointed Deputy President of Leszno. From October 2008 to September 2012 he was a member of the Programme Council of Polish Television in Poznań and from November 2013 to December 2014 he was vice president of the club Union Leszno Sportowa Spółka Akcyjna in Leszno. From October 2010 to 2015 he was a lecturer at the Higher Humanities School. King Stanisław Leszczyński in Leszno, and from April 2012 to July 2012 lecturer at the Collegium Polonicum in Słubice for the law, including Polish material criminal law. Since October 2013, he was first employed as a lecturer in criminal law at fixed and permanent master's studies at the Higher School of Social Skills, and since October 2014 as an assistant at the Department of Public Law and Law Theory at the Faculty of Law and Psychology at SWPS University of Humanities and Social Sciences. Mr Piotr Jóźwiak is the author and co-author of over 60 scientific publications on criminal law, disciplinary law and sports law in collective works and reputable legal journals, e.g. The Palace, the Legal, Economic and Sociological Movement, the Court Review, the Court of Justice of the Polish Courts. He co-editor of 10 monographs, he was also a member of the editorial board of the Legal and Criminal Quarter. He gave several dozen papers at scientific conferences across the country. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Both education and extensive professional experience indicate that Mr Piotr Jóźwiak is a good candidate for a judge of the Court of State. And third candidacy, High Izbo. A life story with a reason. Mr Paweł Śliwa was born on 7 June 1971 in Gorlice. Mr. Piotr Śliwa... Paul, Paul. ...from 1991 to 1996 he completed a master's degree in law at the Faculty of Law and Administration of Maria Curie-Skłodowska University in Lublin, a branch in Rzeszów. Between 1997 and 2001, he received a lawyer's application, and in 2002 he received an entry on the list of lawyers. Between 2004 and 2007, he completed doctoral studies at Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński University in Warsaw. Between 1999 and 2002 he was a district consumer spokesperson in Gorlice. Between 2002 and 2005, he led the Lawyer's Office in Gorlice and the Lawyer's Office from 2005 to 2016. Between 2010 and 2014 he was a councilman of the Małopolska Voivodeship Sejmik. On 17 November 2011, he was elected by the 7th Sejm as a member of the Court of State. In 2014, he was re-elected and re-elected to the Małopolska Sejm, where he served as Chairman of the Statute and Law Commission and Vice-President of the Audit Committee. On 18 November 2015, he was reappointed by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland to judge the Court of State. Since March 2016, he has been Vice President for Innovation in the Polish Energy Group Akcyjna Spółka. Mr Paweł Śliwa was providing legal assistance in the Association for Family Assistance in Biecz. It also operates in the Association of Lawyers.Temida is also a member of the Association of Friends of the Land of Lipinska. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Both education and extensive professional experience indicate that Mr Paweł Śliła is a good candidate for a judge of the Court of State. Well, here you go. The High House for these three nominations to be supported by Members of Parliament. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u198	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mrs Lydia Burzyńska to present the candidates for the members of the Court of State: Mr Czesław Kłak, Mr Bogdan Witold Szlachty and Mr Marcin Henryk Wawrzyniak, submitted by Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u199	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the CV of the candidate for the judge of the Court of State, along with the justification. Mr. Bogdan Witold Nobles was born on July 26, 1959. He is a professor of the Jagiellonian University and Ignatianum Academy in Cracow, a lawyer and philosopher by education, in the years 2008 to 2016 he served as dean of the Faculty of International and Political Studies of the University and a member of the Senate of the University. In 1984 he graduated from the Jagiellonian University and in 1986 he graduated from the same university. Between 1984 and 1986 he took a judicial application in the Provincial Court in Krakow, completed with a judge's examination submitted in 1986. In 1994 he became a doctor of legal sciences and in 2001 he obtained a degree of a doctoral degree in legal sciences as well. Since 1 February 2003 he has been an extraordinary professor and since 2009 he has been an ordinary professor at the Jagiellonian University. On 8 June 2006, President Lech Kaczyński was appointed Professor of Humanities. His extensive professional experience was gained by Professor Noblet, among others. as Secretary of the Criminal Department of the Kraków-Śródmieście District Court. Since 1988, an assistant and then an assistant at the Department of Political and Legal History at the Faculty of Law and Administration of the Jagiellonian University and the Department of Law of the Academy of Economics in Cracow. He has been a member of the Postgraduate Council of the Pontifical Theological Academy in Krakow since 1995. For 10 years he has been a professor of the Jagiellonian University and for 13 years also Ignatianum Academy in Cracow. Between 2002 and 2005, he was a deputy director of the Institute of Political Sciences and International Relations of the Jagiellonian University, a member of the Disciplinary Commission on the Academic teachers and member of the Permanent Rector Committee on Repairs. Between 2005 and 2008, he was the dean of general affairs, and in 2008 and 2016 he was the dean of the Faculty of International and Political Studies of the same university, and he was also a member of the Permanent Senate Committee on Property and Finance, the Permanent Senate Commission on. Research, the Permanent Senate Committee on Development of the UJ and the Rector's Rector's Commission for Publishers of this university. Between 2006 and 2009 he was Deputy Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Polish Radio - Regional Radio station in Krakow, and since 2018 he has been a member of the Board of Companies with the participation of the State Treasury and state legal persons. Prof. Bogdan The Nobility has an extremely rich scientific achievements. He is the author of many cycles of lectures, author of a series of monographs on the history of political doctrines and promoter in 30 completed doctoral conductors. He was a scholar of Oxford University and a laureate of many scientific awards. He is a scientific editor of the journals of Politya and the Political Thought, a member of the Political Science Committee of the Polish Academy of Sciences and the international organization Academia Europaea, based in London. We believe that such outstanding scientific achievements and extensive professional experience indicate that Professor Bogdan Witold Noblef is a very good candidate for a judge of the Court of State. High Izbo! I present the candidate for judge of the Court of State Marcin Henryk Wawrzyniak, who was born on 16 May 1984 in Warsaw. Between 2003 and 2008, he studied at the Faculty of Law and Administration of the University. Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński in Warsaw on the right. He defended his master's degree for a very good grade. Between 2009 and 2012 he held a lawyer's application in Warsaw under the patronage of Magdalena Fertak. Since 2013, he has been a member of the Bar Association in Warsaw. Since September 2018 he has also been a member of the District Chamber of Legal Counsels in Warsaw. From 2013 to today, he has been engaged in the profession of lawyer as well as legal counsel within his own law firm. Legal adviser to local government units and government authorities. Lecturer of numerous trainings and seminars, co-author of five books, including the current commentary on the Public-Private Partnership Act, and author of several dozen publications and articles on the subject. As part of his professional practice, he specializes in public procurement law, public-private partnership, public investment financing and criminal law. Between 2017 and 2018 Vice-President of the Foundation im. Sławomir Skrzypek appointed by Prof. Adam Glapiński and since 2018 Vice President of the Board of Congress 590 sp. z o.o. - entities responsible for organizing the Congress 590, one of the biggest economic events in Poland. Since 2018, member and secretary of the Supervisory Board and member of the Supervisory Board of the Housing Cooperative Centre in Warsaw, including twice the Chairman of the Supervisory Board. Between 2006 and 2010 the councilman of the Śródmieście district of the capital city of Warsaw. Both education and extensive professional experience indicate that Mr Marcin Wawrzyniak is a good candidate for a judge of the State Court. High Izbo! I'd like to introduce the candidate for a member of the Court of State Professor Czesław Kłak. Professor Kujawsko-Pomeranian High School, dr hab. Czesław Kłak was born on 30 August 1981 in Rzeszów. In 2003 he completed a very good law degree at the Faculty of Law and Administration of the University of Rzeszów. In 2005, at the Faculty of Law and Administration of Maria Curie-Skłodowska University, he obtained a doctoral degree in legal sciences on the basis of a doctoral dissertation: a court order in the Polish criminal trial and international standards for the protection of human rights. He obtained his PhD in habilized legal sciences in 2012 at the Faculty of Law and Administration of the Jagiellonian University on the basis of a hearing: Complain of the chronicity of criminal proceedings and the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and Scientific Acquis. In 2018, the Polish Sejm elected Professor Czesław Kłak as a member of the Court of State. Prof. Czesław Kłak is a specialist in criminal law, criminal proceedings, forensics, criminology, protection of human rights and legal aspects of internal security. He is the author of more than 160 scientific publications, including two copyright monographs, scientific articles, chapters in collective monographs and a vote for judicial decisions. Leads, among others. research on criminal liability, the contemporary structure of crime, the chronicity of proceedings, the protection of human rights in criminal proceedings and the functioning of the penal system in Poland against a comparative background. Prof. Dr. Hab. Czesław Kłak graduated in 2007 with the result of a very good prosecutor's application and then pursued the profession of prosecutor in the years 2008 to 2011. On 10 July 2019 he was appointed to the Legislative Council with the President of the Council of Ministers. He is also a member of the Penitentiary Policy Council at the Minister of Justice, as well as numerous other expert teams and scientific committees. Prof. Czesław Kłak participated in the work on the reform of the penal system in Poland, being the vice-president of the team to develop draft amendments to the criminal law enforcement law at the Minister of Justice. He is a member of numerous scientific associations, among others. Scientific Society of Criminal Law, Polish Penitentiary Society, Polish Printing Research Society and International Law Association. Prof. Dr. Hab. Czesław Kłak is the Chairman of the Scientific Council of Ostrowski, Domagalski &amp; Partners in Rzeszów and the author of legal opinions, including on behalf of private entities, law firms, lawyers and the Ministry of Justice and the Office of Sejm Analysis. He is also a lecturer at the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office in which he conducts classes on the judicial and prosecutor's application. As part of the training activity Prof. Czesław Kłak also conducts lectures for judges, labor corporations and uniformed officers. Both education and extensive professional experience indicate that Mr Czesław Paweł Kłak is a good candidate for a judge of the Court of State. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I ask you to vote on my candidacy as judges of the Court of State. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u200	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Marcin Kulask in order to present the candidate for a member of the Court of State - Mr Sebastian Gajewski, submitted by the members of the Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u201	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left, I would like to present Mr Sebastian Gajewski as a member of the Court of State. Sebastian Gajewski is a doctor of legal sciences and a recognised specialist in law and administrative proceedings and judicial administrative control. He graduated with an assessment aimed at legal studies at the Faculty of Law and Administration of the University of Warsaw, where he received with distinction a doctoral degree in legal sciences with specialty: administrative law. Sebastian Gajewski is the author or co-author of more than 80 scientific publications, 10 monographs and comments, 35 scientific articles and a voice in scored journals, 23 articles in peer-reviewed collective works and dozens of educational and popular science studies. His works are cited in court case law, including nearly 50 times in administrative case law and several times in ordinary court case law. He gave 30 papers at national and international scientific conferences. He participated in several legal research projects, including those funded by the National Science Centre and the Minister for Science and Higher Education. Sebastian Gajewski has extensive teaching experience in legal sciences. For 8 years he has been conducting administrative and legal classes at Warsaw universities, lectures, exercises, conversations, Master's and Bachelor's seminars - in the following fields: law and administration, administrative law, administrative and judicial proceedings, local self-government law, access to public information, administrative legislation and the administration of the European Union. He promoted nearly 50 Masters and Bachelors. Mr Sebastian Gajewski is currently employed as an assistant at the Administrative Law Chair of the European Higher School of Law and Administration in Warsaw. He also worked at the Faculty of Law and Administration of the University of Warsaw, at the University of Banking in Warsaw and at the University of Computer Science, Management and Administration in Warsaw. He worked with the Institute of Labour and Social Affairs. He has gained experience in the judiciary as assistant to the Supreme Administrative Court. The legal knowledge and experience of Mr Sebastian Gajewski constitute a guarantee of proper performance of his duties as a member of the Court of State. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I recommend Dr. Sebastian Gajewski's candidacy and I ask for her support.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u202	Thank you, sir. I ask the floor of Mr Krzysztof Smishek to present a candidate for the Court of State of Mr John Jobs, submitted by Members of the Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u203	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Coalition Club the candidacy of patron John Jobs as a member of the Court of State. Mr.Jan Jobs is a valued lawyer who has been active in the profession of lawyer in the Warsaw Bar Association for nearly 8 years. The application was held under the patronage of attorney Stanisław Rymar, Vice-President of the Court of State and President of the Supreme Bar Council. He graduated from Master's degree in: law at the University of Warsaw, as well as postgraduate studies in banking at the Warsaw School of Economics. He also obtained a certificate of completion of the American law course issued jointly by the University of Warsaw and the University of Florida. As part of his professional practice, he has repeatedly appeared before the general courts of all instances, including the Supreme Court. He specializes in economic criminal law in terms of procedural practice and prevention of infringements. He has participated as a defender or representative in more than 100 legal proceedings. Mr Jan Jobs worked with leading Polish and international law firms serving the largest business entities, including listed companies. Since 2013, he has been a partner of the Warsaw law firm Jobs, Skowrońska, Samsel. Since 2011, he has been representing Poland as part of a prestigious international association of lawyers specialising in economic criminal law, as part of the audit and compliance management sections. He was also involved in the drafting of a proposal for reform of the justice system, acting as Secretary of the Agreement of Local Governments of Legal Professions and Law Organizations, which was then an association of local governments of legal professions and judicial and prosecutorial associations under the law. The previous professional practice and activities of Mr.John Jobs, focusing on issues relating to criminal liability of persons performing managerial functions, confirms that he is a person who is adequately qualified to serve as a judge of the Court of State. In view of the duration of the profession of lawyer, I declare that he fulfils the criteria necessary for his appointment to that office. On behalf of the Parliamentary Coalition Club, I warmly recommend this candidacy for this office. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u204	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Paszyk in order to present a candidate for a member of the Court of State of Mr Roman Budzinowski, submitted by Members of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 and the Coalition Parliamentary Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u205	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 I would like to recommend Prof. Roman Budzinowski's candidacy to the Court of State. Professor Roman Budzinowski was born on 21 December 1950. He is a lawyer, professor of legal sciences, specialist in civil law and agricultural law, ordinary professor of the University. Adam Mickiewicz in Poznań, head of the Department of Agricultural Law of the Faculty of Law and Administration since 2007. Between 1993 and 1999 he was the dean and since September 2012 the dean of this department. In 1972 he graduated with honours from the Faculty of Law and Administration of the UAM and took up a position as an assistant. Three years later, he completed a judge's application. The doctor's degree was obtained in 1981 on the basis of a court hearing on compulsory acquisition of agricultural property. In 1992, he obtained his degree of doctor in habilitation on the basis of the scientific achievements and work of the farm concept in agricultural law. The professor's academic title was given to him in 2009 by the sleeper. President Lech Kaczyński. He lectured at the University of Business in Pile until 2012 and at the Poznań University of Natural Sciences in 1996 and 2012. He has published in many Polish and foreign magazines, among others. in connection with the home branch of the Legal, Economic and Sociological Movement. He did a number of scientific internships in Italy. Many times he organized Polish-Italian conferences in the field of agricultural law. He is a member of the Polish Association of Agrarist Lawyers, and since 2014 he has been President of the Polish Agrarist Lawyers Association. In 2007, he founded a semi-annual review of agricultural law, which he became editor-in-chief. Its scientific achievements cover more than 220 items. He is an editor and co-author of 30 collective works, author of 80 studies and articles and dozens of other studies. It also publishes abroad: Italy, Germany, Switzerland, France and Spain. The main subjects of your professor's research are the problems of agricultural law theory, including the problems of the development of this branch of law. It also deals with the application of law in practice, especially notarial, and agricultural administration issues. High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 I would like to recommend to the High House the appointment of Prof. Roman Budzinowski as judge of the Court of State. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u206	Thank you, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to take the floor on the applications submitted? Mr Marcin Kulasek, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome. I'm opening a discussion. I'm setting time for one and a half minutes. He quits, he quits. You're resigning. Good. Mr Grzegorz Braun.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u207	God bless you! Good evening! God bless you! Attention, I'll quote the constitution. We read in it that the judges of the Court of State are independent, only this constitution is subject. In this connection, the question I would like to address to the Minister for Coordinator on the candidates submitted... Mr. President, I'm sorry. You can't address a question to a minister. You can address a question to someone who recommended these nominations. Consider it a rhetorical figure. I'm gonna come out here again in the questioning session and repeat my question. So the issue of independence. The question is whether the Minister is aware of who of the submitted candidates were in contact with the peerel services, who - post-peerelowski and who are in contact with the secret services today. If possible, in response to the specifications for green, blue or maybe in other colors. This is a very important issue. ...are you in your head? The question is whether at least any parity is preserved, the cardinal principle organizing the Third and Half Republic: we do not touch yours, you do not touch ours. In this regard, do these professional affiliates, the classified hierarchy, at least respect this cardinal principle? Thank you, sir. I will repeat this question to the Minister for the Coordinator in the Question Session. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u208	Thank you, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. According to Art. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall be elected by an absolute majority of the Vice-Presidents and Members of the Court of State. According to Art. Article 26 (2) (b) 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm The election of members of the Court of State shall take place jointly, unless the Sejm decides otherwise. I propose that the Sejm elect members of the Court of State in a joint vote. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Objection! Objection! There was no objection. As there was an objection, we are voting on the proposal for a joint vote on the election of the members of the Court of State. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the proposal for a joint vote on the election of the members of the Court of State would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members took part in the vote. 429 - for, against - 12, 3 abstained. The Sejm accepted the offer. We proceed with the joint vote on the election of the members of the Court of State. Question. Excuse me, based on the article. Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). The two Marshals of the Sejm may allow I don't allow questions before the vote. We proceed with the joint vote on the election of the members of the Court of State. Sit down. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of choosing the deputy president and members of the Court of State according to the list of candidates in print 23 and 23-A will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. For -434, 1 against, 12 stopped. By an absolute majority, the Sejm elected two deputy presidents of the Court of State: Mr Piotr Łukasz Andrzejewski and Mr Mark Chmaj... A regenerate parrot. What are you using again, man? ...and 16 members of the Court of State: Mr Roman Budzinowski, Mr Mark Czeszkiewicz, Mr Jack Dubois, Mr Sebastian Gajewski, Mr Zdzisław Gawlik, Mr Jan Jobs, Mr Piotr Jóźwiak, Mr Czesław Kłak, Mr Andrzej Kojra, Mrs Iwona Olejnik, Mr Witold Pahl, Mr Bogdan Witold Szlachta, Mr Paweł Śliwa, Mr Marcin Henryk Wawrzyniak, Mr Maciej Gustav Zaborowski and Mr Tomasz Zalasiński. There was a formal conclusion. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u209	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make a formal request to adjourn the sitting in order to determine whether the candidates for judges of the Constitutional Tribunal meet the requirements necessary to fulfil this office, in particular the age requirements of the candidates. Mrs. Marshal! We have two legal opinions ordered by the Office of Sejm Analysis of the Sejm Chancellery. The conclusions of these two opinions are consistent. Respect for seniors. The candidate for a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal at the time of his election must meet the requirements necessary to serve as a judge of the Supreme Court, including not being 65 years of age. This is an absolute requirement. You've made up your own mind. A candidate for a judge who is 65 years of age, after being appointed, could not rule. The rules of law do not provide for the possibility to apply immediately for a retired judge's post. Your Marshal, it's time for you to re-examine two applications... Thank you, sir. ...which have been reported to this office. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u210	Thank you, sir. At the committee meeting, this matter was considered, the committee decided. A formal request for adjournment has been submitted. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 212 was in favor, 233 against, 1 abstained. The request for a break was rejected. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: Election of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal (prints 16, 17, 19, 26 and 27). On the basis of the article. Paragraph 194. 1 Constitution of the Republic of Poland and Art. 2 (2) 2 Act on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, as well as Article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and paragraph 1. Point 3 (1) in conjunction with Article. Article 26 (2) (b) 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the group of Members have submitted the following nominations for judges of the Constitutional Tribunal: Ms Krystyna Pawłowicz, Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz and Mr Jakub Stelina. Disgraceful! Ladies and gentlemen, would you like a break to take a breather? Yes. I ask Mrs Anna Milczanowska to present the nominations of Ms Krystyna Pawłowicz and Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz. Disgraceful! If one of you isn't interested in listening, you can go out into the cockroaches. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u211	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the candidate for the post of judge of the Constitutional Court Mrs Krystyna Pawłowicz. [[Applause]] Ooh... Disgraceful! Listen to the candidate's data with the justification. No. Mrs Krystyna Pavłowicz is 67 years old. Too old, too old. Disgraceful! In 1976 she graduated from the Faculty of Law and Administration at the University of Warsaw. For 35 years... Some Members chant: Shame! Disgraceful! Disgraceful! Members of the Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Green Claudia Jachira, Urszula Zielińska, Iwona Hartwich, Magdalena Łośko and Magdalena Filiks hold cards with letters forming the word: Shame. Your Marshal... Stop it. Member, please continue... Members, at the moment, please sit in your seats, you are disturbing the order. I'll be out of the room in a minute. And that will be the consequences. Please take your seats. The riffraff! Caryca, shut up! Please take your seats. You are violating the Sejm's seriousness, there will be consequences. She was a science teacher...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u212	Please take your seats. Some Members are hitting their desks and chanting: Disgrace! Disgraceful! Disgraceful! Please take your seats. In that case, I'm managing a five-minute break... Mr. Messengers, please... Bravo! Way to go, girls! They're getting away! But the break is. All right, let's take a five-minute break. May I ask the messengers who have come to the living room with such courage? [[Applause]] Cowards! May I have your messengers, please? They're gone! They're scared! They're scared! [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 22 minutes 45 hours 22 min 47]] I'm reopening the session. Members who have come here: based on Article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 2a of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I state that your conduct in the sitting room has violated the seriousness of the Sejm. [[Applause]] Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's Your marshal, with a formal motion. You can't do that. No, sir. You're breaking the law. Do you know the rules of the Sejm? You can't do that. I know the rules of the Sejm. You do. That's right, so sit down, okay? Can I make a formal request? Please don't. [[Game in the hall, applause]] I ask Mrs Milczanowska to continue. Member, please continue. Some Members chant: Shame! Disgraceful! Disgraceful! Your Marshal, the rules apply to everyone. Absolutely, absolutely, sir. Absolutely all are concerned with the same rules of procedure, sir, and these very principles should be known to you. You're selective. Please continue, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u213	Mrs Krystyna Pavłowicz is 67 years old. Some Members chant: Shame! Disgraceful! Disgraceful! In 1976 she graduated from the Faculty of Law and Administration at the University of Warsaw. For 35 years until 2011, she was a scientific and educational worker at the Institute of Administrative and Legal Sciences at the establishment of economic law. Disgraceful! Members hold cards with letters forming the word "dignity." Since 2007, he has been a professor of extraordinary Warsaw University. She was an extraordinary professor and head of the Department of Economic Law at Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński University. In parallel, for several years she taught at the University of Public Administration in Ostrołęka, as well as worked at the Institute of Science about the State and Law of the Polish Academy of Sciences in the team of Professor Ludwig Bar. In 1979, she graduated from a judge's application in the district of the Voivodeship Court in Warsaw. During the period of martial law, in 1982 and 1989, she prepared legal papers in the press and underground publishing houses. After 1989, the Civic Committee prepared as co-author a draft convention law, which was adopted almost unanimously in 1990. In 2005, she obtained a doctorate degree based on a hearing on the legal status of the entrepreneur vis-à-vis the Supreme Audit Chamber. Dr. Hab. Krystyna Pawłowicz is the author of a 140-page government report on central government administrations. He's a promoter of a few hundred master jobs and a doctoral reviewer. She is the author of numerous, about 50 opinions and expertise for the highest authorities of the state and administration, as well as for the President of the Republic of Poland. From 2007 to 2011 Ms Krystyna Pawłowicz was a member of the Court of State. Three times she was a candidate for judge of the Constitutional Tribunal with positive opinions of the Sejm committees. Member of the 7th and 8th Sejm of the Republic of Poland in the years 2011 and 2019. During the two term of office, i.e. For eight years, she was a member of the National Judicial Council. As a Member of the Sejm, Ms Krystyna Pawłowicz was a member of the Parliament's Legislative Commission, the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and the Committee on Constitutional Responsibility, and a member of the Committee on European Union Affairs in the 7th term of office in the Sejm. Professor Krystyna Pawłowicz is the author of many scientific publications, among others. co-author of subsequent editions of the academic manual for the subject of public economic law. He specializes mainly in constitutional issues of economic freedom, constitutional and legal status of the entrepreneur, economic supervision. She also dealt with the impact of Polish membership in the European Union on the systemic functions of the state and Polish law and media issues. She is the author of numerous legal publications of a public and scientific nature. She has been an expert on the Sejm and the Senate in legislative work many times. In recent years, Professor Pawłowicz has focused primarily on constitutional issues, including the Constitutional Tribunal, the status of judges and courts. She drew attention to the need to prepare a new Polish constitution. Ms Krystyna Pawłowicz has not been and is not a member of any political party. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Oh... Both education and extensive professional experience indicate that Professor Krystyna Pawłowicz is a very good candidate for a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Applause]] Bravo! Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz... [[Touchdown, applause]] Disgraceful! Oh... Shame, shame. ...a candidate for a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal... [[Some of the MPs are hitting the desktops.]] Some Members chant: Away with the commune! Down with the commune! Down with the commune! ...was born on 19 July 1952 in Bochnia in a Catholic family, where he started his primary school, which he then continued in Nowy Sącz. He also attended music school there. In 1971 he graduated from the General Education High School. Jan Długosz in Nowy Sącz. Disgraceful! He was defending a pedophile. In 1972 he started his studies at the Faculty of Law and Administration of the Jagiellonian University in Krakow, which he graduated with good results in 1976. He then started a prosecutor's application, which he completed with the result of the best of the entire group of applicants, which is why he quickly moved to the investigative department of the then Provincial Prosecutor's Office in Krosno, where he conducted the most serious investigations... Ha, ha, ha. ...of a criminal and economic nature only. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] How can you lie like that? After martial law was introduced as a result of criticizing this fact and refusing to conduct political investigations... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Shame! ...which only then appeared in this unit, day by day was transferred to the D.A.'s office. Shame! In his free Poland in recognition of his legal qualifications and professional competence, as well as in support of those who were repressed in war, the then Minister of Justice in 1990 appointed him as Head of the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Krosno (Moscow in the Chamber) and then promoted him to Prosecutor of the District Public Prosecutor's Office. He served this function for 15 years. In 2005, he ran for Senate. By running as an active prosecutor at the time, he received high public support and assumed the Senator's mandate... Bravo! ...and then he was forced to give up his profession. He also became a member of the National Judicial Council by the will of the Senate. In 2007, Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński served as Secretary of State of the Coordinator for Foreign Affairs. Special Forces. At the same time as a member of the Legislative Commission of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, he represented the position of the Sejm before the Constitutional Tribunal several dozen times. He was running for office in 2015. He's been reassigned a Member's mandate. This time, the Sejm entrusted him with the role of chairman of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and appointed him a member of the National Courts Council. He held both of these functions until the end of his term of office. Stanisław Piotrovich as a Sensitive Man [[Joy in the Chamber]] He has always engaged in helping others, poor people, homeless people and needy people. In 1992 he was co-founder of the Krośnieński Circle of St. Albert's brother and his first president. He served this function for the next 25 years. For nearly a quarter of a century, he ran a shelter for homeless people and a kitchen where 100 lunches were spent free of charge a day for those who had no means of living. He's lying. He was also the president of the entire Podkarpackie branch of several similar circles, as well as a member of the main board. For his multiplicity of commitment to the community of believers and not only was he awarded a gold medal of merit at the Przemysl Church. Distinctive legal knowledge and extensive experience in creating law and its practical application confirm that Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz is a good candidate for judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. Thank you. [[Applause]] Some Members chant: Shame! Disgraceful! Disgraceful!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u214	Thank you, Member. I would ask Mr Kazimierz Smolinski to present the candidacy of Mr Jakub Stelin.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u215	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! It is my pleasure to present Professor Jakub Stelina's candidacy as a member of the Constitutional Tribunal. Mr Jakub Stelina was born on April 1, 1969 in Ostróda. In 1993 he graduated from the Faculty of Law and Administration of the University of Gdansk, and in 1990 he obtained a doctoral degree in legal sciences on the basis of a hearing entitled: The union's ability to write under the direction of Professor Lech Kaczyński. In 2006 he received a degree of PhD in the same Faculty of the University of Gdansk based on his academic achievements and his dissertation entitled: The legal nature of the employment relationship with appointments. In 2018, the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda gave him the title of Professor of Legal Sciences. In 2007 he became an extraordinary professor at the University of Gdansk, and in 2005 and 2012 he was a dean of the Faculty of Law and Administration of the University of Gdansk. In 2012, he took the dean's post in this department, while on 10 May 2016 he was re-elected dean of this Faculty of Law and Administration of the University of Gdańsk. Between 2013 and 2014 he was a member of the Scientific Council of the General Data Protection Supervisor, and in 2016 and 2018 a member of the Labour Law Codification Commission and the Chairman of the Panel. preparing a collective labour law code. Since 2010, he has been a member of the Legislative Council with the President of the Council of Ministers in the XI, XII and XIII term of office. Jakub Stelina is an author, co-author, editor and co-editor of over 100 scientific publications, including several books, among others. commentary on the Labour Code and the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator. He is the author of manuals on labour law and official law and monographs on collective labour agreements and the legal nature of the employment relationship with appointments and employment relations of persons acting as state bodies. These qualifications, his professional experience and preparation undoubtedly prove that he is a good candidate for membership of the Constitutional Tribunal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u216	Thank you, sir. I ask Mr Przemysław Czarnek to present the opinion of the committee on the candidacy of Ms Krystyna Pawłowicz and Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz. Disgraceful! The riffraff! Shame!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u217	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Opinion of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the proposal for the selection of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights after considering the above mentioned conclusions at the meeting on 20 November 2019 and a turbulent discussion, repeatedly disturbed by the members of the committee, offensive comments to the candidates, decided to propose Ms Krystyna Pawłowicz and Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz to give a positive opinion. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] Disgraceful! I would also like to stress that we have had a long discussion about what Mr Szczerba said about the imaginary requirement of 65 years of age, which is the barrier that our candidates, the candidates of the High House, would not take the position of judge of the Constitutional Court. Well, we've come to this clearly in our opinions... How unambiguous? ...that there is no provision of law, no provision of law in the Statute of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal which would actually lay down such a requirement. There's just no such requirement. Just read the Polish law and do not need to reach any opinions. That's one thing. [[Applause]] ...to the Supreme Court. Secondly, we also took note of the conclusions of the opinions formulated by Professor Chmaj and Professor Motherczak. These conclusions, I'm sorry to say, have absolutely no basis... You're lying... ...in existing legislation. They do not touch at all what is enshrined in the Constitutional Tribunal Statute Act. What's more, it's too bad you don't have Mr. Counselor Giertych's opinion yet, then we'd have a complete set. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] And we're so worried about that. The lack of this third opinion actually makes us unable to believe what it says. Where's Roman? But most importantly... [[Applause]] But most importantly, Professor Marek Chmaj is a professor who participated... This is the committee's report? ...active participation in the assassination of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2015 in June and October, and then defended... This is the committee's report. ...protecting this assassination in all possible media. Disgraceful! His legal opinion is completely unbelievable and completely political. [[Applause]] It's not for this project. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We recommend Mrs Krystyna Pawłowicz and Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] You're better than them. ...for judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u218	Thank you, sir. I ask Mr Witold Czarnecki to present the committee's opinion on the candidacy... What's your name, man? You're gonna make a career. ...Mr. Jakub Stelina. Kaczyński's Communist. I would like you to bear in mind the words, sir. I'm calling you into order. How? It's true. Communists and thieves. All of Poland are thieves. Communists and thieves. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u219	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On 21 November, the Committee on Justice and Human Rights considered the appointment of Professor... Professor... [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Ha, ha, ha. That's good. ...Professor Jakub Stelina... Never mind. ...for the post of judge of the Constitutional Court. You made a mistake. Following the discussion, the committee supported this candidacy and gave a positive opinion. The report of the committee meeting was delivered to the ladies and gentlemen in Parliament's print No 27. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo, Wiciu!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u220	Thank you, sir. Mr Szczerba, the Civic Coalition, made a formal request. Please. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u221	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make a formal request to change the way the discussion is conducted in such a way that it is possible to ask a question separately to the representative of the applicants of each candidate for judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. High Izbo! Here were presented the glazed, powdered CVs of PZPR activists... [[Applause]] Bravo! ...you want to delegate to the Constitutional Court. And who did you send Miller and Cimoszewicz to? Mr Piotrowicz was presented to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights as a fugitive from the prosecutor's office during a period of martial law. We would like to ask specific questions about the requirements that individual candidates should meet, not only formal requirements, that the candidate may not be 65 years old, but also those concerning integrity of character. At least two candidates don't have that quality. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u222	Thank you, sir. In that case, we shall vote on a proposal to change the way in which the discussion is conducted. Or maybe because of the acclamation? The Member's request is to change the way in which the discussion is conducted so that questions can be asked separately by each of the candidates for judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 213 was for, 234 against, no one held back. The conclusion was not received by the majority. The second proposal is made by Boris Budka, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome. Time-- one minute. Is Gowin happy or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u223	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask your marshal for a recess and to remind you of the Member who presented the committee's position that he violated the seriousness of the Sejm and its rules of procedure. [[Applause]] Bravo! This is no place to make your own opinions. Moreover, you have just challenged the position of your club, including the President, who voted in the previous vote in favour of Professor Mark Chmaj as judge of the Court of State, moreover, Vice-President of the Court of State. [[Applause]] Make up your mind, ladies and gentlemen. I have a big favor to ask: let's respect each other. He voted, too. Oh... Let's not talk about the committee's position... Look who's talking. ...which was absolutely not such a position. It insults the honor of the High House. Right. I beg you, Your Marshal, to reprimand the Member in the manner in which you have just reprimanded our messengers. Thank you. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u224	Mr. Speaker! Since a request for interruption has already been voted, I will therefore not put this request to the vote. Mr Jakub Kulesza, the Confederation, will also present the formal proposal. You're welcome. Time-- one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u225	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. 184 (3) (8) I request a change in the way the discussion is conducted. I'm amazed at the way the audience is speaking in this room. In my opinion, all positions in the plenary room should be taken here, from this place, not in the form of shouting, humming, and even more banners. So... There may be two reasons for this, the fact that Members use this third form, or banners. Remember when you used to run around here with a canister? Ha, ha, ha! I therefore ask that a debate be held before the vote, 10 minutes for each of the clubs, so that all five Members who have come out with banners can speak out of this speaker. We will see if the fact that they have not spoken from this pulpit is the result of a lack of time for discussion (the bell) or perhaps a lack of courage. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u226	Thank you, sir. This proposal is the same as the one that has already been, so we will not vote on it. On the other hand, we are before the discussion. But he doesn't know the rules. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to take the floor on the applications submitted? This is the place for discussion. The Member is reporting. Member, I have a card here, I see. We're registered and registered. You asked. Was that a substantive question, Your Marshal? Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz has the floor. I'm setting time, ladies and gentlemen, for three minutes, for the clubs. Why three? Objection. I'm setting time for three minutes. There's an objection. Then we'll vote it out. Maybe half a minute? Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of setting the speaking time for 3 minutes, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 232 was for, against - 215, no one held back. The motion's been passed. Three minutes. Please, Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u227	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! If you asked the parish priest from Tylawa, or actually a paedophile from Tylawa, if he would support Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz's candidacy as judge of the Constitutional Court, he would probably support it with all his might, [[Applause]] Because it was Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz who reduced in his statements the paedophile actions of a degenerate. No honest man would just go through his throat and be justified by his position or function, for nothing would justify such words. [[Applause]] Would any of you, present in this room, touch the intimate places of several-year-old girls call bio-energotherapy? Any of you? Hands off our children. Would any of you send your daughter, your granddaughter, to the knees of a paedophile, a priest from Tylawa? Any of you? Shame! Disgraceful! The voters gave Stanisław Piotrowicz a red card... But keep it down, woman. ...and consider now whether you really want to give the green light to this man who gave permission in his statements for paedophile acts. You really want to give him a green light? [[Applause]] Shame! Piotrovich's conduct disqualifies his candidacy to the Constitutional Tribunal. A person who in some way justified a priest who was later convicted of pedophilia, who, touching the intimate places of several-year-old girls called bio-energotherapy, should be thrown out of the parentheses of public life... [[Applause]] Bravo! ...and you are sending Peterowicza to the Constitutional Court. It's not like it's in your head. If a priest molested his daughter or granddaughter, would Mr. Piotrowicz call such actions bioenergetics? Are you, Mr. President... Mrs... But what are you interrupting? If any of Marta Kaczyńska's children were molested by a priest, would he call it bio-energotherapy? [[Applause]] But whoa, whoa. Shame! As a mother of two, it's out of my mind. This is a disgrace. There are limits, I think. Then go confess. High Izbo! I won't talk about Peterowicz's decorations for his service to the Communist Prosecutor's Office because you all know that. High Izbo! This is not just a vote for Peterovich's candidacy. Mr. Peterovich. Think about it and consider it in your own consciences, which is more important to you: party loyalty or human decency. I would therefore like to end by appealing to you: if this party loyalty does not allow you to vote against, at least hold back. We'll vote against it. We will vote against pedophilia, against the relativization of martial law, against Stanisław Piotrowicz. Insolent. We will vote for honesty... Thank you, Member. ...righteousness and decency. [[Some Members stand up, long-term applause]] Bravo! Down with the commune!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u228	Come in, ma'am. Mrs Małgorzata Sekuła-Szmajdzińska. You're welcome, my fellow Member. How's the campaign going, settled? Three minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u229	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll start by quoting the words I heard two days ago on one of the radio stations. I quote: Unfortunately, I will have to vote for Stanisław Piotrowicz if there is such a proposal and the club makes such a decision. I hope this is an open matter, but the fact is, if I have to do this, and sometimes things have to be done in politics, if you're in some kind of formation, I'm going to do it with a lot of resentment. Mr Adam Lipiński, Vice President of Law and Justice, said these words. Bravo. At least one of them was underground in the PiS. The rest are communists. We don't live in communion. High Izbo! I'm a member of the opposition. I'm sorry, but I'm not glad I heard those words. I would very much like us to return to normal, so that the President may take the oath of three judges legally elected by the 7th Sejm. [[Applause]] Members of the 8th term of office elected other judges who were sworn in at night before the Constitutional Tribunal's verdict. I would like the words: I pledge to uphold the Constitution, to fulfil my duties impartially and with the utmost care, to sound sincere and credible. Do we have a chance for this to happen? The rhetorical question, still unanswered. I agree with the view that the quality of the impeccable character of a judge or candidate for a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal means that he should not be a particularly expressive figure in public space, should tone up comments, control emotions, show no fury, declare that he is able to vote in favour of any non-constitutional law or publicly insinuate to judges that they are thieves. I do not want the Constitutional Tribunal to be associated with the repayment of the parties' obligations, so that, as Prof. Adam Strzembosz believes, he would be judged as an organ which has played no significant role in the Polish justice system for several years, [[Applause]] an authority that has lost credibility. Can it be changed? Yes, you can. But it's a matter of the future, not far from here. Today, as the Left Club, we are calling for a halt to the process of the tribunal's degradation. [[Applause]] The issues of overcoming the age at which you can become a judge (the bell) are of course important, because not exactly precise. Thank you very much, Member. These boundaries are defined, but as in life... Time has been exceeded. Thank you, Member. Very much so, sir. ...brings us surprises. Thank you very much, Member. Time's up. High Izbo! The left-wing club will vote against the nominations submitted by the PiS. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u230	Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. Thank you very much, really.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u231	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We should expect legal qualifications and moral qualifications from candidates to the Constitutional Court. At least two of the submitted candidates do not meet either the legal or moral qualifications. There are two expertises that have been trying to slander, minimize, since yesterday, and the only one who has presented counter-arguments to these experts is Professor Pawłowicz, today interested. [[Applause]] Both prominent constitutionalists clearly indicate that both candidates were trapped by themselves by changing the laws on the Supreme Court. As far as moral qualifications are concerned, ladies and gentlemen, if you'll excuse me, someone who thinks he's a victim of martial law appears on documents that accuse anti-communist activist Anthony Pikul. No one questioned the credibility of these documents. [[Applause]] They're dated to martial law. Bravo! Down with the commune! The lady who has been calling herself a professor has been using a language equal to the gutter in this House for eight years. That doesn't qualify for the Constitutional Court. Thank you. [[Applause]] Bravo! It's a cultural one.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u232	Thank you. Mr Władysław Teofil Bartoszewski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u233	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Because of my age, my education and my family experience - after all, my father spent 7.5 years in prisons of the Polish People's Republic for Bierut, short for Gomolka and Jaruzelski - I know perfectly well what the justice system of this country looked like. There were a few competitions that came true back then. Attorneys and lawyers were best placed in various Polish cities: Kazimierz Ostrowski in Cracow, Jan Olszewski in Warsaw, Witold Lis-Olszewski also in Warsaw and many others I knew. On the other hand, when it comes to the employees of the prosecution and the judiciary, let's not tell ourselves today that they were going to these professions because they wanted to be Konrad Wallenrod. [[Applause]] Bravo! They put people in prisons, they tortured people in prisons. And they have full responsibility. I don't really know... I voted for Mr Piotr Andrzejewski without squinting my eyes, but I will not press the button behind Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz. I look at Mr Antoni Macierewicz and I do not know how you, Mr Macierewicz, can, with a clear conscience, vote for this candidacy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Right. And the president smiled.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u234	Mr Jacek Protasiewicz. The rest of the time: 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u235	Prime Minister! Recently, in answer to the question about Mr.Piotrowicz's PZPR past, you said: 3 million people were in PZPR. Yeah, that's right. But you sleep. My father wasn't in this party. My father and my mom didn't belong to her either. It was possible to enroll in 1978 in the PZPR, I believe it. But in 1981, after 16 December, the uncle had to be discharged. In 1982, after the victims in Lubin and Wrocław, we had to sign out. And in 1984, after the execution of Fr. Every decent man in this organization should have checked himself out. What's he saying? Yes, sir. I'll tell you what, you have to have an impeccable character. Let me quote Herbert: It didn't take much character at all. We had the necessary courage, but in fact it was a matter of taste. Yeah, the taste that tells you to go out, bend over, cut the ridicule. And that's the ridicule. Go to the European Parliament after this choice and say: Yes, in the highest constitutional bodies we have men of martial law. [[Applause]] Shame! Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u236	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Łukasz Schreiber. Don't take it on your back. You're too young. It's too bad for you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u237	Mrs. Marshal! He takes it, he takes it. Prime Minister! High Izbo! Madam Member, who acted on behalf of the Civic Coalition, the PO-KO or whatever you call yourselves right now! [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Oh, you're funny. More culture. Cocksucker. In your speech, you consciously - and I hope you know that - said the wrong thing. You quote the words, you almost accuse a paedophile person who, as prosecutor of the prosecution, justifies the sentence. And you have the audacity to do that with the Seymary? This is the first case. The D.A. doesn't judge. Shame on you, man. Case number two. I'm glad you're enthusiastic. I would remind you that it was the Law and Justice that passed the pedophilia committee. You have no conscience. I would remind you that it was for your governments that projects were rejected to increase the paedophilia penalty. You sold your conscience to power. Lie! Disgraceful! I hope this sobriety isn't fake. Okay, here's the deal. All charges... You say, "Away with the commune, you show the inscription "dignity." This is a reflection that came a little too late. Peterovich's gun. The president smiles, satisfied with Peterovich. Do you have any company promised? As Mr Horała said in his time, you created a reconstruction group of PZPR 1989, not 20 years ago, but this year, in the elections to the European Parliament. [[Applause]] You served your comrades on the 30th anniversary of the fall of the commune... Hey, that Peterovich hurts, it hurts. The GDPr 30% of the leaders of the letters originated from the PZPR. [[Applause]] How did you count it? Bravo! You had the Secretary of Propaganda on your letters in the martial law. You had members of the Central Committee of the Polish United Workers' Party on your lists. Secretarys. Disgraceful! You have made them Members of the European Parliament. And yes, it hurts you - because it can be seen - mostly that it is in the benches of Law and Justice, that it is among the leaders of Law and Justice, I think of you, President, Prime Minister... There are communists. ...there are people who have fought for Solidarity, that there are heroes of Solidarity in our benches, such as Mr Antoni Macierewicz, like Mr Piotr Naimski, until recently here, today in government. [[Applause]] Like Mr. Peterovich. Communists rule today. Communists from the PiS. Yes. And it hurts so much. But you're not gonna scream that you're all doing anti-PiS here, and you're all, together with the SLD, you've created this reconstructive group of PZPR. And this shame has spoken through you today from this place. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Prosecutor of martial law. Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u238	Thank you, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Let's move on to the vote. Questions! On the basis of the article. Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, I volunteered, Marshal. Your Marshal... Let's move on to the vote. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights gave a positive opinion on Ms Krystyna Pawłowicz's candidacy, Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz and Mr Jakub Stelin's position as judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. According to Art. Article 26 (2) (b) 1 in conjunction with Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, the Sejm shall elect the Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal by an absolute majority. We proceed with the vote on the election of Mrs Krystyna Pavłowicz. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of choosing Ms Krystyna Pawłowicz as judge of the Constitutional Tribunal will want to raise his hand and press the button. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Disgraceful! Shame! Some Members are hitting their desks and chanting: Disgrace! Disgraceful! Disgraceful! Who's against it? Who's holding back? Excuse me... 443 Members voted. 230 was for, 213 against, no one held back. The absolute majority elected Ms Krystyna Pawłowicz as judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Applause]] Bravo! We proceed with the vote on the election of Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of choosing Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz as judge of the Constitutional Tribunal will want to raise his hand and press the button... (Groaning in the hall) Some Members are hitting their desks and chanting: Disgrace! Disgraceful! Disgraceful! [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Check it out. Michael, come here. Michael, vote. Mr. President, how do you vote? Check it out. Does it work? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Please replace the card with a possible check. Ha, ha, ha. Sir, is it working? It's not working. Because he took the old I.D. You don't have to vote. Satisfied, isn't it? Your card's out. But two in the PiS didn't vote. Three, even. Well, three fair ones. Three. The vote is on, sir. Vote. We proceed with the vote on the election of Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of choosing Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz as judge of the Constitutional Tribunal will want to raise his hand and press the button. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Disgraceful! Don't do this. Who's against... The card's not working. Same thing. Take it easy, man. Okay, we're adjourned. We're gonna reinstate it again. Is it working or not working, sir? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] The show's done. Circus. Get him a replacement. Everybody's working. He's not working. That's not the side he's putting on. Your marshal, he gets that tree made all the time. There should be a resummation because he couldn't vote in the first one. I didn't vote in the first vote either. Ladies and gentlemen, we have interrupted this vote... He's getting a Christmas tree, so... ...just so that Mr... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No, no, no. Mr President, there has been no notification. [[Voice from the room: There was a report)]] But first, there should be a reconnaissance. Sit down and vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of choosing Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz as judge of the Constitutional Tribunal will want to raise his hand and press the button. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] It's working. Disgraceful! Who's against it? Who's holding back? Shame! President Kaczyński! A vote of disgrace! 448 Members voted. For - 230, 218 - against, no one held back. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Shame! But what? Aren't you guys beating up? The absolute majority elected Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz as judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Applause]] We proceed with the vote on the election of Mr Jakub Stelina. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of choosing Mr Jakub Stelina as Judge of the Constitutional Court will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 233 was for, 209 against, 8 stopped. By an absolute majority, the Sejm elected Mr Jakub Stelina as Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Applause]] Your Marshal, formal motion. Here's a formal motion. Mr Robert Winnicki. Shame!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u239	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I move that the vote be resummated... Which one? ...and the admission to the voice of the Confederation, which was cut off by your marshal from the possibility of taking part in the debate. I applied - on the list of Members - and suddenly it turned out that I was not read. Your marshal, you've ordered a vote. This is ridiculous. Mr President, I opened the discussion and everyone could join the discussion. And I did. I did it a long time ago. On the other hand, Mr, on the basis of the article. Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). Two marshals may, but they don't have I didn't let them go by the book. Thank you, sir. Marshal, this is a granda. That's the granda you're growing here. Come on. Thank you very much. This is really a granda and repeating everything Kuchciński did. This is really ridiculous behavior. You said very well.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u240	Okay. Formal conclusion, Mr. Sławomir Nitras. You're welcome. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u241	Dear Marshal! The atmosphere of this vote was not appropriate. It wasn't. It's true. Your fooling around... We elect a member of the Constitutional Tribunal and the vote must take place in a normal atmosphere, not so that there are Members who do not have a voting device. I believe that the request for readmission is justified. Mrs. Marshal! But I would like to draw attention to one thing. Indeed, the rules allow you to have a debate without questions, but I hope that you have come to know the fact that, at the committee meeting, the chairman of the committee also refused to allow questions to be answered. There is also no possibility to ask questions during the debate in the plenary room. If we are to invoke in such an atmosphere that we cannot ask questions, then the question arises: What are you ashamed of when your candidates are so wonderful? What are you ashamed of? [[Applause]] The members of the Constitutional Tribunal cannot be called in such an atmosphere, because it is a disgrace to all of us, not just to you, but to the whole House, that we choose such persons to the Constitutional Tribunal in such a way. Thank you. Disgraceful, just like that. [[Applause]] Your behavior is disgraceful. Mr President, I wanted to answer you. First of all, I completely agree with you: not in this atmosphere we should make a choice, but if you'll excuse me... I guess that's not what we're after.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u242	That's first of all. Secondly, in order for the vote to be realistic, there must be 30 Members... We're gonna need a break. ...to such a request for resummation at this meeting. We're coming... We'll call it in. We're calling it in. Sit down, man, sit down. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: Election of Members of the National Judicial Council (Print No 22). High Izbo! According to Art. Article 187 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 point 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland The National Council of the Court of Justice shall be composed, inter alia, of: of the four members elected by the Sejm from among the Members. The list of candidates for members of the National Judicial Council has been delivered to ladies and gentlemen in print No 22. I would ask Mrs Iwona Arent to speak in order to present the nominations of Mr Mark Ast and Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk, submitted by a group of Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u243	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I would like to present the CV of Mr Mark Ast's candidate, who was born on 27 September in Zielona Góra. He passed his math in 1977 at High School No. 7 in Zielona Góra. In 1984 he graduated from the Faculty of Law and Administration at the University of Wrocław. Between 1987 and 1990, he held a solicitor's application in the District Chamber of Legal Counsels in Zielona Góra. Between 1984 and 1989 he worked as a educator and teacher first at the State Children's House and then at the School Complex in Wschowie. Since 1990, he has served as legal counsel for economic operators and local government units in the war. It's alderman's. Between 1991 and 2006 he served as mayor of the city and the municipality of Szlichtyngowa, and during the term of 1998 and 2002 he was a councillor of the Voivodeship in the Sejmik Voivodeship of Lubuskie. In 2006 he took office in Lubuskie Voivodeship and in the same year he was appointed as Member of the V Sejm of the term of office. Members V, VI, VII, VIII and IX of the term of office of the Sejm. In Parliament, he worked in the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, the Extraordinary Committee on Justice and Human Rights. changes in the codifications, the Committee on National and Ethnic Minorities and the Legislative Commission. In the latter two, he was chairman of the committee. He has been elected President of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for the current term of office. As a Member, he has repeatedly represented the applicants and the Sejm of the Republic of Poland before the Constitutional Tribunal. In 2000 he was awarded the Golden Cross of Merit. Both the education and the practice of counseling, as well as the extensive professional experience of Mr Mark Ast, justify his candidacy as a representative of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland to the National Council of Courts. [[Applause]] I will yet present Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk's candidacy. Born February 4, 1971 in Raciborz. He is a lawyer and parliamentarians holding the mandate of Mr V, VI, VII, VIII and IX of the term of office of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. In 1996 he graduated from the Faculty of Law and Administration of the Jagiellonian University in Krakow. After his studies he worked, among others. At the Senate's Legal Office. In 1999 he passed the exam before the commission of the Ministry of Treasury for candidates for supervisory boards of companies of the State Treasury, and in 2000 he completed postgraduate studies of human rights and freedoms at the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights in Warsaw. Between 1997 and 2001 he took a lawyer's application at the District Bar Council in Krakow and passed his bar exam in 2001. Since 2005, he has been a lawyer in Nowy Sącz. He was on the list of candidates for syndicates of the President of the District Court in Nowy Sącz. Since 2005 he has been a Member of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. During his 14-year parliamentary service, he worked as chairman or vice-president of a number of parliamentary committees, among others. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights, the Legislative Committee, the Committee on Constitutional Responsibility, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Extraordinary Committee on Changes in Codification and many subcommittees, including the Sub-Committee on Foreign Affairs. The Constitutional Tribunal. He also worked in the Committee on Investigation. illicit influence on Special Forces and Justice Officers. On behalf of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland He has repeatedly acted before the Constitutional Tribunal. In the current term of office, the Sejm continues its work in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Legislative Commission as Vice-President of these committees. He is also a member of the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity Committee. In 2011, he was appointed as a member of the delegation of the Sejm and the Senate to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Strasbourg. He is a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Vice-President of the Committee on the Election of Judges of the European Court of Human Rights. Both the education, the practice of attorney and the extensive parliamentary and international experience of Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk justify the presentation of his candidacy as a representative of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland to the National Judicial Council. Please accept these applications. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Yeah, bravo.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u244	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Robert Kropiwnicki in order to present the candidacy of Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, submitted by a group of Members from the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u245	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present Mrs Gasiuk-Pihowicz's candidacy to the National Judicial Council on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Oh... Before you start banging - I understand it's late, night, you're tired... We're not tired. Do I look tired? ...probably in different ways - think about what we'll be doing in a moment. We're picking people to the National Judicial Council... Not us. ...the representatives of the Sejm to a constitutional body whose role is to uphold the independence of the judiciary and the independence of the judges. It's an art. 166 constitutions. They must be people who want to do this job. For 30 years in the High Chamber of the Republic of Poland there has been an informal agreement that the governing majority never takes all places, so that there is a representation of all political environments. Today you want to go for 20 members of the National Judicial Council because you elected 15 judges in that political term. You have your minister of justice, and you want four more Members. You want to take over this House because you want full control of what's going on in there, because only then will you be able to push society... And isn't that the presentation of the candidates? These aren't speeches. ...that Mrs Pavłowicz has matters with one judge who miraculously drew her cases three times to lead. Who's gonna believe that? Really, who's gonna believe this? [[Applause]] Although it is late, no one is able to believe it, and you bullshit people that now your drawing system is so fair that one judge - Mrs Pawłowicz's colleague - judges it three times and always pardons it. That's what you're talking about. That's what you want to bring in the National Judicial Council. That's why we're applying for Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, because we think she's gonna be looking at your people right now... Now, now... ...will control that mess you made there. Because there is really a need for independent people in the National Judicial Council who do not depend on the Minister of Justice who do not depend on the parliamentary majority who can tell the truth to those who are sitting there. Because they really need to protect the independence of the entire judiciary. Your Marshal, this is a presentation of the candidates. These aren't club appearances. You don't defend judges like Judge Zurek, Judge Tuley and the others because you just want to delete them. These aren't club appearances. And the National Judicial Council should defend all judges against each authority, both from the executive authority and from the legislative authority. [[Applause]] Bravo! If there are bad rules that the High House and the Senate are making, then the National Judicial Council should protest. And there should be people who have the courage to say it loudly, and if necessary, even hit the desktop with their hand. As you know, Kamila can do it. Head! Head! And it's really worth it if there's people out there who can face 20 people and tell the truth. And most of all, check. But present yourself, this is not a discussion. And you should want people there who are worthy to verify the activities of this body. [[Applause]] Without it, it'll be another mute organ. And unfortunately, you're turning things into mute organs. Dumb Constitutional Court, dumb KRS. You're about to make a silent Supreme Court. At least not the Germans. Only to have full control of the Polish state. I hope the voters don't let that happen. I wish you all to elect Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz to this body, which will uphold the independence, independence of the judge. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u246	Thank you, sir. I would ask that Mrs Barbara Bartus take the floor to present the nominations of Mr Bartosz Kownacki and Mr Kazimierz Smolinski, submitted by a group of Members from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u247	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the candidacy of Mr Bartosz Kownacki, who was born on 11 August 1979 in Warsaw. He was a co-worker of Prime Minister Jan Olszewski and an employee of the Polish Parliamentary Movement for Reconstruction. In 2003 he graduated with honours from the Faculty of Law and Administration at the University of Warsaw. He worked as a lecturer at the Mazowiecka University School. Between 2003 and 2006, he took a prosecutor's application, and after passing his exams he received an entry on the list of legal counsels. Then he worked, among others. as director of the Office of the Legal Service of Military Counterintelligence and legal counsel at the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński was awarded by the President of Professor Lech Kaczyński with the Golden Cross of Merit. In 2009 he started his lawyer's practice. He represented among others. Mr Jarosław Kaczyński and Mr Zbigniew Ziobra, and after the Smolensk disaster, some families of victims. In 2011 he was first appointed Member of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. After his re-election in 2015, he was appointed Secretary of State at the Ministry of Defence, which he served until 2018. In 2019 he was elected for the third time as Member of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. Both the education, the practice of counseling and the extensive professional experience of Mr Bartosz Kownacki justify his candidacy as a representative of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland to the National Court Council. I also wanted to present the candidacy of Mr Kazimierz Smolinski, who was born on 15 July 1955 in Malbork. He's married and has two sons. Between 1974 and 1978 he studied law and administration at the University of Gdansk and obtained a master's degree in law. In 1984 he completed postgraduate studies for legal advisors at the University. Adam Mickiewicz in Poznań and in 2001 - postgraduate studies in company management at the University of Gdańsk. He obtained his professional rights as legal counsel in 1983 after taking part in a solicitor's application in the District Chamber of Legal Counsels in Gdansk. In 1986 he received an entry on the list of lawyers at the District Bar Council in Gdańsk, which he belongs to today. He started his professional career in 1978 at the State Insurance Institution, where he worked as a legal adviser since 1983. In 1993 he founded his own law firm in Tczew, where he worked as a legal adviser and then as a lawyer until 2015. He was driving, among others. matters relating to economic law, commercial company law and property insurance. He was the defender of people accused of matters related to the worldview, including those defending the cross. He also represented relief accusers in matters of insulting religious feelings. Between 2015 and 2018, he served as Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, in which he served among others. he was responsible for legislative matters and was also a member of the Permanent Committee of the Council of Ministers. As president of the Polish Catholic Institute, Sursum Corda organized legal conferences on issues related to the clause of conscience, the presence of the cross in public space, which resulted in publications, among others. A clause of conscience in the state of law. He also worked in the municipal council in Tczew, where he was president of the municipal council in 1998 and 2002. Mr Kazimierz Smolinski was a Member of the VI, VII, VIII and is a Member of the IXth term of office. He is already a member of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and Vice-President of the Committee on Constitutional Responsibility. For the current term of office of the Sejm, he is the Chairman of the Rules of Procedure Committee, Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity. Both education, professional and parliamentary experience indicate that Mr Kazimierz Smolinski is a good candidate for a member of the National Judicial Council. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u248	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski to present the candidacy of Mrs Joanna Senyszyn, tabled by a group of Members from the Left Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u249	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I would like to start with a quote that should open our eyes to how we are today electing the National Judicial Council. Well, until the time of the reform of the KRS, the constitution was not respected. There must be three divisions and balance. The judicial, executive and legislative authorities are to be balanced. We have introduced some legal solutions that must restore this balance. Politicians of all policy options will now sit on the National Judicial Council. Who said that? Stanisław Piotrowicz. Chairman of the committee [[Applause]] Justice. Your Marshal, you have proposed that in this House we choose four representatives of the National Court of Justice in a division: two of the opposition, two of the governing party. This principle, which was to be a certain political pluralism, enshrined in the Constitution, responsible and above all fair, was to give the impression that here in the Parliament, we are choosing a National Judicial Council which combines the principle of a democratic and normal state. It was Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki who appealed in his speech to give up his argument to normality. Is it normal that the Law and Justice Club wants to choose four of the four KRS members' chambers? Are the recommendations we're making today just to get you to reject the people that are about to be presented by the Left? The responsibility for the constitution, the responsibility for the state, the responsibility of the High House for what the work of the National Judicial Council will be, is the responsibility of Poles and Poles, not just chambers. I am very pleased to recommend Professor Joanna Senyszyn, a professor of ordinary ergonomics, a publicist, a social activist, a parliamentarians who sat on the benches of the Polish Sejm in the fourth, fifth and sixth term, and was a parliamentarians of the European Parliament in 2009 and 2014. Born February 1, 1949 in Gdynia. She graduated from the University of Gdansk and was the rector of the University of Administration and Business from 1994 to 1995. In 1996 and 2002 she served as dean of the Faculty of Management of the University of Gdańsk by two terms. She then became head of the Department of Social Sciences' Department of Market Research. She is a well-known publicist who has published over 200 marketing papers, has promoted over 600 masters and six doctors. In the European Parliament, the professor worked in the Commission: Human Rights, Civil Liberties, Women's Rights and Gender Equality. She was also Vice-President of the European Parliament Platform for Secular Policy. She is a member of the Society of Animal Welfare and President of the Gdynia branch of this organization. He has been working socially for years, working for a responsible state and a democratic state. She was finally awarded the Golden Cross of Merit and the Medal of the National Education Commission. It is the National Judicial Council that should be the place where responsible and competent persons sit, having broad horizons of thought, because in this body we will decide what judicial staff will later function in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen! Representatives of the Law and Justice Club! I appeal on behalf of the High House for reason and seriousness. Let us choose representatives who will represent the Sejm of the Republic of Poland with dignity, but will also be representatives of opposition clubs. It is your representative, today a member of the Constitutional Tribunal, who has said that you will abide by the principle of pluralism, that we will choose candidates and candidates who will be from every political option, that you will not divide people who are in opposition into better and worse sort. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I ask that you vote for Professor Joanna Senyszyn, the candidate of the Left for the National Judicial Council. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u250	Thank you, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to take the floor on the applications submitted? Mr Borys Budka, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. I'm opening a discussion. I'm setting time - three minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u251	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In a moment, there may be something unprecedented in the history of the last 30 years when it comes to the Sejm of the Republic. Contrary to parliamentary custom, contrary to good practice and against parities, you want to vote four candidates for the National Judicial Council, who come from only one group. But when you had the majority, you did the same thing. That's not true! Never in the history of this Sejm has there been such a situation that one group voted all candidates for the KRS. Moreover, on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club and the parties forming the majority in the Senate, I make a clear and clear declaration: let us maintain good parliamentary customs. [[Applause]] We're making you an offer to both the Seym and the Senate... Yeah, in the Senate. ...candidates to the National Judicial Council were submitted and selected in accordance with the applicable parities. And how did you vote on my case today? Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, I would like to stress that the offer of cooperation and normal parliamentary rules is a standard for us. That is why I am addressing the representatives of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. I call on you to respect the reports of the two largest opposition clubs in the Sejm. I pledge that half of the Senate candidates for the National Judicial Council will be given a minority in the Senate. It is a hand drawn towards you, it is a proposal of elementary respect for the rules of parliamentarianism, and I hope that in a moment's time in the vote, you will have this gesture of good will, but such elementary decency, you will simply appreciate and not create a situation, once again I will stress, a precedent. I have a request for reflection, and I have a request for the support of two candidates (the bell) submitted by the opposition. I pledge that half of the seats in the National Court Register in the Senate will be provided for the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u252	Thank you, sir. Mrs Anna Żukowska, parliamentary club of the Left, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u253	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have an appeal, a warm appeal to the majority in charge of respecting the parliamentary custom that has been in force so far, regarding the respect for pluralism of views, and we respect the pluralism of this House. The Left returned to the Sejm and does not intend to be a total opposition, to fight just to be against the Law and Justice always and everywhere. E.g. You had the opportunity to observe this in one of today's votes. We call for Law and Justice... You better be with them. ...withdrawed two of their candidates to ensure pluralism in the National Judicial Council, which, as you have said, should not be politicized. At the moment, what the Law and Justice are about to do is that Parliament, on behalf of the Sejm, will be sent to this body only and exclusively to the representatives of the Law and Justice. I ask that you respect pluralism and that you withdraw two of your candidates... ...to ask them to listen to you. ...or simply for the Law and Justice to vote for candidates, candidates put forward by opposition groups. Thank you. [[Applause]] Kiss up to the PiS. Suck it up.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u254	Thank you, Member. Mr Robert Winnicki, Circle of the Parliamentary Confederation, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u255	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We're talking about the National Judicial Council. And since we are talking about the National Judicial Council, it is impossible not to mention Mrs Krystyn Pawłowicz, who was a member of the National Judicial Council by two terms. Ha, ha, ha! And since we're talking about Professor Krystyna Pawłowicz, I just wanted to say what I had previously been prevented from saying that I would really like to vote for you, Professor Krystyna Pawłowicz... We're not surprised. ...with a character... Wait a minute, listen, you'll think... I'll stand, I'll wait. ...and he's just speaking because it's not often for you, Mr Nitras. [[Applause]] Okay, okay. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say that I would like to vote for Professor Krystyna Pawłowicz, for a person... Sign up for the PiS. ...with an incredibly rich scientific achievement, behind a scientist who's brave, for example. in 2008... Relentless. ...had the courage to speak publicly about the fact that the Treaty of Lisbon, also voted by many votes in this House, is incompatible with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. But Lech Kaczyński signed this treaty. Yes, I would like to vote for Professor Krystyna Pavłowicz. Unfortunately, I could not vote in favour of Krystyna Pavłowicz... Can you or can't you? ... Because after moving to the Sejm, after becoming a political soldier of PiS himself, Mrs. Krystyna Pawłowicz also began to put loyalty to the party headquarters over loyalty to values, such as the key votes concerning life, human life from conception. That's not true. And unfortunately, choosing Mr.Piotrowicz for the Constitutional Tribunal is a guarantee that he will be settled by the new Przyłębski, i.e. those who, for example. they blocked the settlement of Members' request for eugenic abortion for two years. Today in this Chamber we have even collected further signatures, I know that there are a lot of them already at this point, and I thank all the members of the governing party for that too - for the fact that this proposal for eugenic abortion is renewed too. Only, ladies and gentlemen, it will be an absolute nerve, a scandal and something unimaginable for you, if again at social meetings with Mrs Przyłębska it will be established that eugenic abortion, the ruling in this case by the Constitutional Tribunal is to be blocked. I'd like to strongly protest against that. And that's because these party nominees PiS are not representatives of conservative values at all, Catholic values, only the nominees from the party headquarters, we voted against these nominations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u256	Thank you. Mr Dominik Tarczyński, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u257	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In reference to Mr Budka's speech. You're talking about pluralism. And how many vice marshals have the biggest club in the Senate now? How many vice marshals does the biggest club have? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Same as the Seym. And how you vote in committees and how you voted today... Get to the point, you clown. ...in my case? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Oh! You voted against, of course, in spite of the quotas you are calling for. So democracy and this pluralism is good when you have the majority, and when you don't have the majority, it's democracy, right? Thank you. [[Applause]] Checkmate.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u258	Thank you, sir. A list of Members registered... Oh, excuse me, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u259	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Whether the majority of the Sejm respects the right of opposition to sit on the National Judicial Council or, more likely, will not respect you because we know you well... In the Senate, you'll choose. Unfortunately, this will not change the deep crisis that you have introduced in this institution or in this institution, the crisis and the lack of trust. This lack of trust does not exist both in the national institutions and, as we know, in the European institutions. But this choice today will not prevent the potential legal crisis that threatens us with the unconstitutional formation of this institution a few years ago. Those of you who know or want to know this issue know that in Poland today a group of several thousand judges selected by the National Courts of Justice and appointed by the President in a manner that is incorrect or affected by a legal defect are ruling. That is why today we have allowed ourselves as the Coalition of Poland to announce that we will come out in the coming days with an initiative of a comprehensive law on the National Council of Judicial Affairs, [[Applause]] so as to prevent the legal crisis that threatens us in the near future. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo, bravo! [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u260	No, thank you, thank you, sir. The list of Members voted on has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Since six nominations have been submitted for members of the National Judicial Council, we will vote by means of a voting device, using the function of this device to make a choice from the list. I would like to remind you of the voting rules using a function that allows you to choose from the list. After inserting the card into the reader and its positive authorization and ordering the vote on the display, the name and first letter of the first candidate will appear. Let me remind you that the list of candidates is in alphabetical order. Using the cursors placed on the numeric keypad, you can move between the positions of the list. To vote for a candidate whose name is currently displayed on the display, press the green button "za." To change your decision, press the red counter button. The sign "plus" next to the name will disappear. After voting for selected candidates, the decision should be approved by pressing the white button. This is tantamount to the final vote and therefore to the lack of possibility to change the decision. Are all Members ready to vote? See if all the cards work or the lights don't shine. There's no Christmas trees. We may not ironize. Is everything okay? We therefore proceed to the vote. According to Art. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, the Sejm shall elect Members of the National Courts Council by an absolute majority. I would remind you that Mr Mark Ast, Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Mr Bartosz Kownacki, Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk, Mrs Joanna Senyszyn and Mr Kazimierz Smolinski have been nominated as members of the National Judicial Council. Once the vote starts, the list will be placed in alphabetical order in the voting device reader. I would remind you that only four candidates can be supported. I remind you once again, ladies and gentlemen, that pressing the white button is tantamount to final decision making, so please use this button as the last one. We'll proceed with the vote. I am now asking Members to decide on the election of Members of the National Judicial Council. It's not working. Ladies and gentlemen, who doesn't have a reader working for? It works, but it can't. Doesn't any of you have a card working yet? It's working. Ladies and gentlemen, it can't be that it works for some people and it doesn't work for others. Does it work? It's working, it's working. It's working. Okay, here's how it's gonna go. I can't hear you, sir. Your marshal, imagine it might be because some can speak and others can't. Ladies and gentlemen, I see that the new Members are having difficulty voting in the reader, although not only the new Members... No problems? No, we don't. Is there a problem? There's a problem. It's not working. Who's got a problem? Can we do it again? There are no new machines. The president does. Good. Ladies and gentlemen, if they don't work, I can cancel this vote again. Yeah, cancel. No. That's good. That's good. The president made a mistake... No... But so are you. Your marshal, but it can't be that one works and the other one doesn't work. I'm just asking if it works and if it doesn't work. [[Game in the O.R.]] It's like the Captain's Bridge. Your marshal, we have to cancel, because we're gonna lose. Too many people just are. Really. Pour some water. [[Touchdown, applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is a request from Members of the Civic Platform... And here, that the state that doesn't work and that the state... It's working, it's working. Mrs... It works for everyone. The Member was just a moment ago with the same request. But it's working now. With the same request. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] It works here. Some Members chant: Results! Results! Results! Shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, Maybe it was a roadblock. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not looking in that direction, I'm just looking in your direction and in that direction. Nitras, sit down. This is some kind of circus. The president made a mistake. Ladies and gentlemen, it is possible to decide whether or not to resume the vote when the proposal is submitted by 30 Members. I'll call in a moment about that vote and the Senior Convention. Oh, no. So I am awaiting the request of 30 Members wishing to react to the vote. Kaczyński did not vote. Some Members hit their desktops and chant: Results! Results! Results! Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with the Marshal's decision, I will cancel this vote at the request of Members of the opposition. No! No! Scandal! Disgraceful! On what grounds? Your marshal, and now the razor's working, is it working? Dictatorship! But you can't cancel anything because there are no results. Formal conclusion. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u261	Mrs. Marshal! Maybe we should give the law and justice club time to think about the consequences of what your marshal is trying to do right now. She already did. Do you intend to, in this term of office, in a situation where you lose the vote, block it? Announce their outcome and resummate every time you lose the vote? We won, didn't we? It's not like there were any results. Because you've got most of it on a small number of parliamentarians. That's breaking the rules of parliamentarianism, Your Marshal. You promised in your speech here two weeks ago that you would keep an eye on the order and the law in this House. How can you not announce the results of this vote now? What are you afraid of? We demand to announce the results of the vote. [[Applause]] Yeah, yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u262	Thank you. Some Members chant: Results! Results! Results! With a formal application. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u263	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The vote that took place, according to what your marshal said a few dozen minutes ago, should have been announced. Of course! Democracy obliges us to learn these results. If you want to resume, you'll do it after the results are announced. Bravo! So I'm filing a formal motion to announce the results, the ones that are after this vote. [[Applause]] Please announce the results!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u264	The decision has been made, ladies and gentlemen. See if the cards are working. See if the cards are working. Scandal! What's the decision? We proceed, ladies and gentlemen, to the vote. I'll remind you again. No! It was a vote. Hello! Mr. President, falsifying the results is... Fake men! We put the sign "plus" in front of the candidate we choose. Eventually, the white button is the approval of the candidacy. Please use the cursor carefully. I'll read the manual again. After inserting the card into the reader and its positive authorization and ordering the vote on the display, the name and first letter of the first candidate will appear. Let me remind you that the list of candidates is in alphabetical order. Only if the president can handle it. Using the cursors placed on the numeric keypad, you can move between the positions of the list. To vote for a candidate whose name is currently displayed on the display, press the green button "za." To change your decision, press the red counter button. The sign "plus" next to the name will disappear. After voting for selected candidates, the decision should be approved by pressing the white button. This is tantamount to the final vote and therefore to the lack of possibility to change the decision. Are you all ready to vote? Let's move on to the vote. Marshal, I have a question for you. On the basis of which you ordered the vote to be resummated, since 30 signatures were not collected... It's not a resummation. Isn't that voice resummation? Then you have to announce those results. Your Marshal, may I? Please. Please. On what basis did you announce the resummation of the vote? Marshal, you're making a procedural error. I understand, ma'am, but at least admit your mistake. You're making a procedural mistake. This is breaking the law, Marshal. There is no point in the Rules of Procedure such as the deletion of votes. This is for the D.A.'s office. Ladies and gentlemen, have you all made your choice? Not yet. Let me remind you that if you make a mistake... Then we'll vote again. ...red can be undone and white is approved. [[Game in the O.R.]] Messenger Jarosław... Three more people haven't voted. They don't want to vote. Good, 'cause they don't want to show up. Again! I want to do it again. Again! Two more people. Red PiS. That's cheating! Results! Scandal! Cheaters! Scandal! Has everyone voted out already? Yes? This is cheating! Thank you. In that case, I'd like to see the results. Please close the vote. Scandal! Excuse me, Marshal. What are we waiting for? 448 Members voted. Mr. Marek Ast received 234 votes. Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk - 233. Mr Bartosz Kownacki - 233. Mr Kazimierz Smolinski - 233. Mrs. Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz - 199. Miss Joanna Senyshin, 196. [[Applause]] And bravo. Cheaters! Some Members hit their desktops and chant: Falser! Fake men! Fake men! Scandal! Disgraceful! Mr Mark Ast, Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk, Mr Bartosz Kownacki, Mr Kazimierz Smolinski, was elected by an absolute majority as members of the National Judicial Council. Ladies and gentlemen, as there was a request for the resummation of that vote, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I will announce a brief recess in a moment and call the Senior Convention - because it is the decision of the Marshal, which he takes after consulting. On the other hand, on the basis of which I interrupted this vote - exactly the same as I interrupted the vote, when Mr Boris Budka reported that his card was not working. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] No! No! Voting 49th, ladies and gentlemen... That's not true! Member, please don't yell at me. Scandal! The 49th vote was interrupted by me and the 50th vote... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Disgraceful! It's canceled! Ladies and gentlemen, I will not discuss this with you. That's what happened. I'm declaring a three-minute break. Senior Convention to the dark living room, please. Scandal! [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 0 minutes 18 hours 0 min 28]] I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen, the Senior Convention has been held. We have analysed this situation because it was so that vote number 49 was interrupted by me and there was only vote number 50 at the request of Mr Szczerba. On the other hand, the difference in the number of votes was so large that according to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, which states that if there were any doubts as to the number of votes that might have affected the outcome of the vote... This was not the case, and therefore there will be no resummation of the vote. [[Applause]] What are you saying? Formal conclusion, Marshal. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u265	High Izbo! Mrs. Marshal! [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] How do you speak? Formal conclusion. Formal conclusion. One minute. Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! A recording has just been published, on which one of the messengers of Law and Justice speaks to your marshal... Which one? ...and it's recorded, the marshal's microphones indicate we're gonna lose this vote, we're gonna have to do it again. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Scandal! Scandal! It's recorded. You did it. He knows no bounds. We demand that this recording be made public, that the vote be repeated and that the results be presented. I'll prove it. Your marshal, what happened in this House is a scandal. There's a video where you can hear clearly that the Messenger of Law and Justice is talking about it... This is your marshal's crime. You're faking the results. ...that the vote was lost by law and justice. And that's when your marshal decides that the vote needs to be repeated. This is an outrage. We demand disclosure of these results. [[Applause]] Scandal!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u266	Thank you, sir. That's where we've exhausted the agenda... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Bravo! No, no. Formal conclusion. Oh, one more formal conclusion. Mr Budka. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] We're gonna have to cancel or we're gonna lose. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u267	Dear Marshal! Here's the video... The Member plays the recording from his mobile phone: We have to cancel, because we are going to lose. But we won. ...which will prove in this matter, because it has become an extraordinary thing, unheard of in this House even with your standards. If this is to be the law in the Republic of Poland, if in a situation where you lose the vote... How do you know? ...miss says, let's stop, cancel the vote... But what is the vote supposed to be? ...because we lose, this is the fall of the Sejm of the Republic. [[Applause]] How do you know? You can do things, but this is the fall of the Sejm. [[Applause]] Disgraceful! Scandal! I mean, you can't stop voting because you might lose it. It has become an extraordinary thing, Your Marshal, and it is not a matter of cancellation or resummation of the vote... Overstepping the law. ...only your marshal didn't allow the vote to be announced. That's cheating! It's a joke! There is no legal possibility (the bell) to interrupt the vote. Court of State. Thank you, sir, thank you very much... And that's for reasons like that.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u268	Mr. President, Mr. President. According to the regulations, it's been interrupted... Some Members hit their desks and chant: Fraud! That's cheating! That's cheating! On this we have exhausted the agenda of the 1st meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I would like to inform you that no one has volunteered to make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u269	A few days ago we said goodbye to Mr Stefan Strzałkowski, who died on November 8, this year. Mr Strzałkowski was a teacher, well-deserved and long-time self-government officer - the first white-garde governor, and then, by two terms, the mayor of Białogard. He was also a Member of the Polish Parliament of the VI, VII and VIII term of office. He left behind good memories. Both as a responsible and helpful politician and as a good colleague, a good patriot and a good man. He was an anecdote master, an inexhaustible treasurer of jokes and a great storyteller, an observer, a lover and a natural expert. Hello, His Remembrance!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u270	On the anniversary of the November Uprising. November 29th will be 189 years since the outbreak of the November Uprising. This uprising was the greatest military effort in Polish liberation fights of the 19th century. This effort was possible thanks to the secret conspiracy concluded at the Podchożych Infantry School in Warsaw in 1820 under the command of the lieutenant. Peter Wysocki. Their goal was to take over the capital and hand over power to politicians. In 1830 there was radicalisation of moods caused by rising food prices and unemployment. In addition, the international situation on the continent has mobilised to take action. In July, a revolution broke out in France, and in August the Belgians started fighting for independence. Poles! The hour of revenge is over. Today you die or you need to win! Let us go, and let your breasts be Thermopylials to enemies!! - These words began on 29 November 1830, as Piotr Wysocki mentioned. The military success of the insurgents was the acquisition of the Arsenal. During the night, almost the whole of Warsaw was managed with the exception of the Square of Arms and Ujazdowskie Avenue. The troops of the great Duke of Constantine have withdrawn from the capital. Warsaw was free. Despite military success, there was a political problem. We were not able to decide whether to compromise with the conqueror or to engage in an open fight. Nor was it possible to create an uprising government, negotiations with the Duke of Constantine were conducted by the Administrative Council, which did not believe in the victory of the uprising and sought a compromise. However, these talks were interrupted by the Patriotic Club under the direction of Joachim Lewewel and Maurycy Mochnacki. At this point I wanted to distinguish the character of Maurycy Mochnacki - literary critic, political journalist and musician and author of the Polish nation in 1830 and 1831. The future chronicler of the November Uprising suffered repression already in his studies, when he was relegated from his studies just before he received his diploma. He was banned from working in public institutions. Prisoner and persecuted, under the pressure of the Tsar authorities, he wrote a memorial called the Karmelite writing, where he criticizes the idea of Polish education. Nevertheless, he did not stop fighting for Polishness and became involved in publicistic activities. He co-founded the Polish Gazeta and the Polish Courier, and his texts in the voice of the citizen from the land taken away emphasized the superiority of Polish culture over Russian culture, both in terms of statehood, law and artistic creation. He was also a supporter of Kościuszko's social equality, where he saw a chance to regain independence. Maurycy Mochnacki's commitment to regaining freedom by Poland was also military. He enlisted as a private to 1. Piotr Szembek, General Piotr Szembek, who fought among others. in the battle of Olszynka Grochowska, in which he was wounded. He also fought under Okuniew, Wawr and Ostrołęka, where he was wounded again and became incapable of military service. His energy and patriotism were reflected in the publication of the National Journal, in which he pointed out the need to fight the conqueror. After 10 months of struggle and commitment about 150,000. Our fellow countrymen have lost to Russia's military power. Maurice Mochnacki was awarded the Order of Virtutti Militari for valor. He spent the last 3 years of his life in exile in France, where he was extremely active in writing. He was one of the most important authors of the Polish emigration diary, and also wrote the Polish nation's uprising in 1830 and 1831 and in which he assessed the causes of the fall of the insurgent fights. Mochnacki was a supporter of the uprising, but for his defeat he blamed the weakness of the leaders and lack of willingness to take responsibility for the fate of Poland. He died in the same year, in 1834, at the age of 31. That's when he was too. sentenced by the Russian authorities to the death penalty. Despite the tragic fate of the November Uprising and personal misery, he described the powerful power of Poles. This optimistic message has been included on the pages of its most outstanding work: the rise of the Polish nation. After the partitions of Poland, we see nothing else in this country, but the disasters themselves, one of the other coming; we see nothing else, but the continuance of public disasters, which just for a moment interrupted the watery shines of fortune. Why, then, did the Polish nation, who had so much time to become accustomed to his own captivity, who lived all the ways leading to destruction, even to destruction of a name, not cease to be a nation? What has been happening in Poland since the moment our bad neighbors tore apart our land between themselves, shows enough that there is a force within us that must be called the force of lifting from every fall. With us, life after political death has only evolved and spread, unknown to other peoples.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-11-21-sejm-01-4.u271	Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 1st session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. It's a criminal! Information on the date and order of the day The second sitting of the Sejm will be served to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 0 min 31]]
