ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u1	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 11, - to the Special Services, immediately after the end of the votes. The following parliamentary teams will also be held today: - Parliamentary Team for Supporting Entrepreneurship and Economic Patriotism - h.m. 10.40, - Parliamentary Group for: Cybersecurity Children - hour 11, - Parliamentary Group for: Three Seas - hour 11, - West Pomeranian Parliamentary Team - at 10 p.m. 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Environment, Energy and Climate - immediately after the end of the votes. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u2	Thank you very much. Mrs Monika Pawłowska wants to make a formal application. I'm listening.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u3	Dear Marshal, On the basis of the article. 184 point 2 I submit a formal request for a break, convening the Seniors Convention and supplementing the agenda for the information of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration and the Minister of National Defence on a case disclosed yesterday by the Gazeta Prawna Journal, the participation of the Polish company Nattan in the arms trade, as a result of which mortar shells from Serbia came to Ukraine, where the pro-Russian separatists took over it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u4	Thank you very much, Member. That will be decided by the marshal in the second part of the sitting. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee responsible has submitted a report on the draft resolutions on the recognition of the Nobel Prize winner Olga Tokarczuk, print 90. [[Applause]] Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in this case the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the consideration of item 16 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. Before we move on to this point, I wanted to greet young people and teachers from the social primary school in Pietrzyków, Wielkopolska Voivodeship. I greet you with my heartfelt greetings. [[Applause]] Oh, how nicely you're waving your hand. Great. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the agenda. Mr Barbara Dziuk, Ms Anna Gembicka and Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski from Law and Justice. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u5	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The current question on prevention programmes for groups of women and men from 50 years of age. What action has the Ministry taken on improving the health of seniors? We all know that health prevention is aimed at preventing civilization diseases through early detection and treatment. A very important element in prevention is proper lifestyle patterns, primary prevention, i.e. diagnosis, and secondary prevention, this next stage. As far as I am concerned about my more than 20 years of work in this field as a volunteer in the field of prevention, there is a very broad offer addressed to this social group in order to detect and prevent the development of these diseases. I would very much ask the Minister for information on this subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u6	Thank you, Madame, for asking the question. I kindly ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u7	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Civilizational changes, demographic changes, lifestyle changes cause many health problems that require special attention from the government, the Minister of Health. The expenditure on preventive benefits is increasing from year to year. These outlays are found in various sources, among others. The National Health Fund, as part of its financial plan, includes measures for prevention, promotion of health, for various types of research aimed at early detection of changes which may in future result in major health problems. But we also allocate the funds from the state budget at the disposal of the Minister of Health. A number of funds are also allocated from the European Union, which is available, among others. Minister of Health. Prevention is a priority. We pay more and more attention in the Ministry of Health to the creation of preventive programmes, the introduction of preventive elements into various areas of health care, among others. As part of our prevention activities, we are conducting studies on the health status of seniors. These tests... We will have a full picture of the situation already in 2020 as part of the PolSenior 2 survey in which we analyze the health of Poles after 60 years of age. But in parallel, tasks are being carried out, as I mentioned, under various programmes. The biggest programme, which is already being implemented now - the next edition from 2016 to 2021 - is the National Health Programme, which has specific objectives, five objectives to improve the health of Poles. There are, among others. This is the fifth objective, which points to the need to take action in the field of health promotion and active ageing. Within this purpose we have allocated over PLN 8 million this year. As part of this activity, we carry out tasks aimed at the population over the age of 50, among others. related to training in the field of diet adapted to the individual health condition, prevention of existing diet dependent disorders. In total, over 840 people aged 50+ have already benefited from these educational activities this year. There are also training in the field of physical activity of seniors, which are carried out within the framework of projects financed by the National Health Programme. Another programme implemented by the Ministry of Health, which plays an important role in prevention, is the National Programme for the Control of Cancer Diseases for the years 2016 to 2024. We spend PLN 225 million on this programme in this perspective. The aim of this programme is to achieve cancer mortality rates comparable to those of countries from other parts of the European Union or worldwide. As part of this program we carry out a number of screening tests, such as. colonoscopy studies financed by the National Health Fund budget or the State budget. More than 100,000 were made. studies of this type in the population to which these studies were addressed. We also perform screening tests for breast cancer prevention, cervical cancer in women. Studies were also conducted to detect lung cancer using low-dose CT scans. In addition, we provide training for medical personnel, doctors, nurses, not only oncologists, but mainly oncologists. As part of this, 173 oncologists and about 500 medical staff were trained. Another programme is the prevention programme for the treatment of cardiovascular diseases of POLKARD. For this purpose, we spend over PLN 21 million in 2017-2020. In 2018 we started the task of Mon. National screening programme for abdominal aorta aneurysm. For this programme, among others, as I said, we have allocated over PLN 21 million under these measures of the POLKARD programme. It is not only the programme, but also the support of many medical entities that carry out tasks in the field of prevention and health promotion, among others. to equip them with the necessary equipment for early diagnostics. Another program is a program for the prevention of cerebrovascular diseases. We spend over 2,700 thousand for this purpose. zł. The aim of the programme is to strengthen awareness of prevention and early diagnosis of symptoms of cerebrovascular diseases. In addition to these activities, typically preventive such as research, consultation, this programme also includes education, mainly doctors, family doctors, family nurses towards early detection (the Bell) of symptoms of these diseases. The next program is a programme of prevention of neck cancer, head cancer - over PLN 6 million. For the prevention program of rheumatoid arthritis we spent over PLN 5.8 million. When it comes to the prevention of depression, it is a contemporary problem, which appears with great intensity, and we also try to take it into account in preventive research. Thank you, Minister. You're gonna answer the extra questions, and you're gonna fill it in. Okay? Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Józef Szczurek-Żelazko: Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u8	Thank you very much, Minister. Are there any additional questions? Please, Mrs Barbara Dziuk.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u9	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As the Ministry of Health emphasizes, prevention is primarily cheaper, and this is supported by economics. It is a much better direction to raise awareness of society in good habits. I have a question about especially seniors working, seniors active: Does the Ministry of Health have a preventive programme for this group of people? I ask because we know perfectly well - and this is confirmed by research - that 50% of the health status of our body results from proper habits, proper nutrition, proper control by doctors, cooperation with experts. I have a question for the Minister: How do these issues related to active seniors look on the part of the Ministry of Health? Thank you. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u10	Thank you, Member, for the question. Again, I ask the Minister for an answer. Minister, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u11	Of course, in terms of prevention, health promotion, promotion of health-promoting attitudes, employers play an important role in this regard. Our society is active and this activity exhibits a much longer period than ever before. At present, when we are talking about healthy life, survival in the health of women, i.e. without reduced mobility, it is the age of over 61 years. If we're talking about men and their survival in health, that is, without health restrictions, it's 64 years. These people are very active in this area and also in the field of professional activity. It is therefore very important to motivate, stimulate employers to want to engage in this trend of prevention, health promotion, promoting active ageing through the implementation of various programmes. Among other things, the Institute of Labour Medicine in Łódź is undertaking educational activities of employers, employees of workplaces, employees of services, mainly occupational medicine towards their animation programs promotion, physical activity and healthy nutrition. Such programmes are supported by the Institute, but it is also possible to obtain funds from various sources, including. The Institute of Labour Medicine and the Ministry of Health organized a competition together with employers - the Worker of Health - in which we assessed the activities of employers aimed at caring about the health of workers. Many employers are actively involved in organizing e.g. various activities in the field of activation, promotion of healthy eating style, organizing lunchboxes in workplaces where healthy nutrition is promoted. These are all very important elements in promoting a healthy lifestyle and these elements have been evaluated, among others. in the second edition of the program, the competition It is very important that promotional prevention measures are also included in the competence of the family doctor. At the moment, a pilot scheme is being developed. As part of this programme, we place great emphasis on the implementation by family doctors, among others. prevention and health promotion tasks, we increase the competence of doctors - they will be able to expand their range of diagnostic activities, which aim to detect health problems at the right time, at the beginning of the disease. In addition, promotional measures in the field of prevention will also be funded. All of this is composed in the whole (The Bell) of the Ministry of Health of the present government aimed at caring for the health of Poles, creating the possibility of early detection of diseases, as well as shaping health-promoting attitudes. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u12	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you, Members. Ladies and gentlemen, Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Krystyna Skowrońska, Rajmund Miller and Waldemar Sługocki from the Civic Coalition want to ask a question about the financing by local government units of hospital activities. That question will be answered by the Minister of Health. You're welcome to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u13	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On 20 November, an important judgment was delivered by the Constitutional Tribunal on the financing of hospital activities by local government units. The Court held that Article. The 59th Act on Medical Activity to the extent that it tells local governments to cover hospital losses is non-constitutional. The Court notes that the financing of health services is the task of the government and the National Health Fund, not of local governments. He stressed that the funds provided by the NFZ were too small to cover the costs of operating hospitals. We know well that the hospital situation was to improve the hospital network introduced by PiS and the form of lump sums payments. But that did not happen. The queues are getting longer, the hospital debt is rising, all of which hits patients first and foremost. Minister! In view of the Constitutional Court's judgment, I wanted to ask you a question. You have 18 months to make changes. What are you going to do with this sentence? Its provisions should be implemented as soon as possible. I would also like to know how the Ministry of Health and the NFZ intend to support local government units which have been faced with the need to supplement the funds in the NFZ cash register, and do not really have any additional resources to cover such losses. I also wanted to ask if the Ministry of Health intends to secure in the next year's budget compensation funds for local governments which, in connection with the judgment, will enter the court's path to recover the money which they had to allocate instead of the NFZ to supplement the funds in the subordinate healthcare unit. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u14	Thank you very much. I'm asking for an answer from the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u15	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The court's judgment is, of course, known to the Ministry of Health. A few days ago, there was a justification for this judgment, which is the subject of a detailed analysis carried out by the Legal Department at the Ministry of Health. As you know very well, in its judgment, the Court laid down time for the current rules to be adapted for 18 months. We're working hard on it. The justification only came to us a few days ago. In order for us to be able to draw up appropriate regulations, we need to be able to assist in a good knowledge of the justification of the judgment and in an accurate analysis of it. This analysis is being carried out. After it has been made by the legal services, the Minister for Health will take appropriate decisions, for which, as I said, he has 18 months time. On the other hand, with regard to the debt of hospitals, I would like to say that this is the first time this year when it comes to the obligation to cover liabilities. So the concern for court proceedings is, I think, a little bit to heighten. We are aware that this needs to be changed. The question of imposing increasingly new responsibilities on local governments or on healthcare providers has also been discussed by the Commissioner, which is not reflected in revenue. Here I would like to remind you that, as far as local governments are concerned, the revenue of local governments is increasing, as you know very well. In 2015 for shares in taxes... Now you're taking them away. Mrs... ...there were over PLN 200 billion in taxes due to the share of taxes, at the moment there are 251, so these funds are in local governments. Of course, it is the task of local governments to support medical entities, while financing strict benefits is indeed a matter of the budgets of the National Health Fund. I would also like to remind you that annual expenditure on health care is increasing. Not enough. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2014 we spent 74 billion PLN on health protection in Poland, this year over 106 billion PLN. This is an obvious increase, by more than 30%, over a few years. [[Game in the O.R.]] But the cost goes up faster. If we're saying... Will you let me answer that? From year to year, revenue increases. This year, too, the National Health Fund's financial plan has been revised three times. Since 1 April 2019, the valuation of both internal, surgical and high-specialist services has been increased. In addition, over PLN 680 million went to hospitals. Another increase in the financial plans took place on 1 July - the financing of hospital emergency services was increased from 10 to up to 30% depending on their activities. Increased funds for non-limited funding of cataracts, CT scans, magnetic resonance imaging. Since 1 October, further increases have taken place. From year to year, the dynamics of health expenditures are increasing, at least from PLN 3 to PLN 5 billion. These are funds specifically transferred to medicinal products. As far as personal costs are concerned, because you are also asking about it, of course, labour costs are increasing due to different laws, for example because of the increase in minimum wage or the regulation of resorts, e.g. Laws on minimum basic salaries, as well as on account of the regulations of the Minister of Health, which increase the remuneration of individual groups. The funds have been transferred to these tasks. In some cases, as far as regulations are concerned, these were dedicated measures which were fully allocated to wage increases. This was the case with nurses, where we donate 100% appropriations for salary increases. And, interestingly enough, some employers do not take advantage of these measures. Additional funds were also provided to increase the salaries of doctors, paramedics. 100% We cover these costs. In addition, the valuation of benefits is increasing, i.e. the funds to cover costs resulting from other costs. I would also like to stress that debt is actually increasing, but if we compare it to revenue growth, it is de facto less pro rata debt than it was in previous years. This is not enough, it turns out that the quality of management also has an impact on the financial performance of medicinal products. Ladies and gentlemen, 8% medicinal entities in Poland generate 80% commitments, 73% medicinal products shall be balanced. So maybe on the other hand you should also pay attention - 73% medicinal products shall be balanced, these are hard data resulting from financial statements. Ladies and gentlemen, the important issue of hospital debt is therefore also the improvement of the quality of management. At the Ministry of Health, we take concrete steps to harmonise, for example, the cost account, the methods of comparability of certain types of costs. There are mechanisms to optimise costs: concentration of benefits, concentration of public procurement. These are elements of efficient management used in the market economy. I think they should also apply to health care. Not only do I think, but it should be. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we analyze the situation, with care we lean on it, we increase the expenditure on health care from year to year. 6 per cent bell, guaranteeing 6% gross domestic product in 2024 is proof that the Government of Law and Justice treats health care as a priority. Because in 2014 we spent 4.6% on health protection of gross domestic product. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u16	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I don't want to be mean, because I've never been mean in my life, but from what the Minister says, we'll be happy to see doctors soon. Good. Additional question, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u17	I'm gonna disappoint your marshal, and you won't have the pleasure, because less and less money is being spent on health care. The minister was bound to be honest, and you manipulated. A 6% algorithm... In 2018, you stole from health care for 15 billion, in 2019 for another 1 billion. 15 billion PLN. These are manipulations. And the manipulation is that you're giving money to protect your health. 2 billion for public television - there will be, before 1 billion PLN - there will be, and there will be no health protection. And we want to tell you that you're also manipulating information. For 8 years of government of the Civic Platform and PSL losses, the debt increased by PLN 1 billion, with the state for 4 years - by PLN 4 billion. And you didn't focus on the obligation to comply with the Constitutional Court's judgment. What are we talking about? About self-governments who have to pay more. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The law on the income of local government units has not changed. So if it's richer, it's richer everywhere. And the electricity prices haven't changed, you're raising it. We're talking about the flap. Time. On Kurski, there's money for public television, there's no money for hospitals. You're in debt, and procedures are priced out scandalously... Member, we're done here. ...what all local governments are complaining about. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u18	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u19	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Well, I can't convince you because I've tried many times to present to you the facts, the facts that stem from the plans of the National Health Fund, from the appropriate lines in the state budget. Everyone can check it out, and everyone has the right to interpret it in their own way. Ladies and gentlemen! On the other hand, with regard to the 6 per cent bill, this is the only law of this kind adopted by the Government of Law and Justice, which indicates a concrete way of reaching a level that guarantees improvement in the quality of the provision of benefits. 6% brings us closer to the way we are financed in the European Union. Of course, this is not yet the ideal that we are aiming for, and we will certainly take action in the coming years to improve this situation. However, the facts are that in 2019 we spend 4.86% gross domestic product. In 2020 we will spend 5.03% gross domestic product. In 2021 - 5,3% gross domestic product. From previous years. Minister, talk about data from previous years, not from a given year. As regards the increase in nominal expenditure in 2017, we spent more by 5400 million than in 2016. In 2018, we spent more than 4700 million in 2017. And now, 2019 - we spent more than 10 billion. These are the facts highlighted both in the National Health Fund's financial plans as well as in the state budget, because there are also health funds there. On the other hand, I would like to mention one more thing. The government also otherwise supports medicinal entities, for example by guaranteeing funds for investment so that hospitals do not have to spend their own revenue on providing services on investment. In this perspective, in the last financial perspective we spent PLN 15 billion for this purpose. This is the amount that has supplied hospital infrastructure through various channels, among others. at the Ministry of Health. We have financed the provision of high-specialized, oncology, cardiological hospitals as well as hospital emergency services. The last programme concerned the purchase of more than 400 ambulances from the state budget. Providers did not have to spend funds directly from their own health benefits income, and they obtained additional resources for this purpose. This is a specific amount that improves the quality of staff benefits and working conditions. So action is being taken in succession. On the other hand, we are fully aware that many years of negligence in health care, among others. the negligence of the government of the Civic Platform and PSL (The Bell) led to the fact that we are at a difficult time and we will have to repair Polish health care for a long time, which we are ready to do. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u20	Thank you very much. The result is longer queues, Minister, and money for the national fund is paid by people, not by the state. Thank you very much. Ms Marcelin Zawisza from the parliamentary club Lewis decided to ask a question about the rules for contracting maternity services in Poland. The Minister will answer the question. Your Member has two minutes to ask a question. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u21	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, Law and Justice transforms the family through all cases. How many times have you emphasized that they are concerned about the welfare of the family, the mother, and even recently, as we have heard in the exposé of the Prime Minister, women, I am unable to count. However, at a press conference on 21 November 2019 the head of the NFZ proposed amendments to the rules governing the contracting of the services of obstetrics. Larger troops would be premier, receiving more than 400 births a year. The distribution criterion was also mentioned. All indications are that the new conditions will lead to a change in the financing of more than 70 babies, including more than 50 establishments will not meet any of the conditions required to obtain the premium proposed by the NFZ. Therefore, please answer the following questions. Which maternity wards with signed contracts with the NFZ will not meet the above-mentioned condition for the delivery of 400 births per year today? A specific list, please. What are the design conditions for the minimum distance between maternity wards to obtain the premium proposed by the NFZ? When and which maternity units having a signed contract with the NFZ at present do not meet the requirement referred to in the second question, or distance criterion? How does the government want to ensure the safety of pregnant women, newborns, especially premature babies and children requiring immediate medical attention by eliminating delivery? The under-financing of hospitals and the lack of doctors and doctors cause the closure of babies throughout Poland. The delivery is closed or suspended, as in Prudnik, Głubczyce or Kluczbork. Women all over Poland do not know if they will not find a closed door when they reach the delivery room. If these conditions are accepted, more than 50 births will be closed. How much money is the Ministry planning to allocate to an information campaign to inform citizens and citizens who will be shut down? Are they gonna find out about all this from the media again? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please answer these questions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u22	Thank you, Mrs Marcelina Zawisza, from the Left Club. I'm asking for an answer from the Minister. Politely, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u23	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The care of a pregnant woman, a woman giving birth, is in the area of special care of the Minister of Health, and proof of this are among others. the regulations that have been introduced. They were the answer to the expectations of the environment, mostly women. We introduced, among others. the organisational standard of delivery care, which clearly defines what benefits are due to pregnant women as well as during childbirth. As there were many misunderstandings in this respect, the Minister of Health decided to develop this standard. This standard has been implemented and is implemented by both environmental and family midwives, gynaecologists, obstetricians and hospital care in gynaecology or gynaecology and obstetrics in hospitals. Within this standard, we pay particular attention to the education of a woman, to developing a healthy posture during pregnancy in order to maximize the welfare of a woman and to ensure the proper development of the child. We also pay particular attention to the assessment of mental status. More and more people talk about depression in pregnant women after birth. Therefore, we have introduced as a mandatory witness the diagnosis of initial symptoms of depression and support in this regard. The question is how to finance benefits. As you know, contracting benefits takes place in two ways. Firstly, on the basis of lump sums which are allocated to hospitals covered by the hospital network. The second channel is the financing of those hospitals which are not covered by the hospital network and the competition procedures. I would like to stress here that the introduction of a network of hospitals for the first time ensured stability for hospitals, because in the 3-year contract procedure, no hospital was ever sure that the provision of all branches would be contracted. That was the situation. I could give examples from my area, where they were not contracted from day to day on the day of the provision of branches or for example. rescue teams, because they entered a completely different, often commercial, entity. That is why we have put in place a network of hospitals to guarantee hospital stability in the form of a contract in a perspective of at least 10 years. With regard to the situation of healthcare providers, in the country we have 381 healthcare providers who carry out maternity care tasks, i.e. in the field of childbirth. We keep analyzing the activities of these providers. Indeed, some of these hospitals do a lot of this, but there are hospitals that do, for example. 64 births a year, 74 births a year or 150 births a year. Ladies and gentlemen, the amount of benefits provided is a guarantee of quality, and that is the obvious thing, and the consequence is economic viability, but quality is the most important. This is why it is considered whether it is possible to award additionally to those healthcare providers who perform a large number of procedures, because at the moment quality is guaranteed. We have signals from the country that not every hospital is able to provide all kinds of measures that cause us to eliminate birth pain. And that's why it's being considered - I repeat this word: it's being considered - there's the possibility of additional bonuses for those entities where we have more than 400 births a year. On the other hand, as of today, there is no President's order in this regard, and, as you know, the President's order changes the method of financing. There's no change so far. Benefits are implemented on the basis of existing rules, while, as I said, the President is considering the possibility of financial support for entities in which we have a large number of births, i.e. more than 400 per year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u24	Thank you very much, Minister. The additional question will be asked by Marcelin Zawisza.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u25	Minister! You referred here to the standards in Poland regarding births. I wanted to ask if the Ministry is aware that, as the Federation study on Women and Family Planning shows, among women who gave birth to natural roads, 43.4% had a birth, 60% Intravenous use with oxytocin and only 38,5% women were provided with a golden standard, i.e. contact with the child at least 2 hours after birth. I have a question as to whether the Ministry is even aware of the situation in delivery homes in Poland. My question is: How is the liquidation of the babies and the change of the contract, such as to close the delivery machines that are currently functioning - remind me, is very likely to lose the contract by 55 babies - how is this supposed to improve birth standards in Poland? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u26	Thank you very much, madam. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u27	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The perinatal care standard was introduced only a few months ago, so we analyse the effects, the effectiveness of this standard on an ongoing basis. According to the Act, an institution to assess the implementation of standards in individual medicinal entities is the National Health Fund which also evaluates the quality of the benefits provided. On the other hand, as regards the application of these principles which you spoke about, this is also the case. in the education process, which is strongly included in this standard, we pay particular attention to the formation of closeness between mother and child at every stage of childbirth. We also pay particular attention to maintaining intimacy, shaping the proper relationship between a child and a mother. Like I said, we monitor the situation, we take corrective action. If information is sent to the Ministry of Health indicating that standards are not being applied, then specific measures are being taken. This is done in close cooperation with non-governmental organisations, which are also very interested in this. We value this cooperation very much and meet regularly in order to better implement, implement this standard in the area of health protection. As regards the other steps we are taking to improve the situation of the pregnant woman, I would like to remind you of the last project that has been introduced into the legal order, the Diet of Mom. We therefore pay particular attention to the feeding process of a pregnant woman. In hospitals it is an important part of the development of the child, the preservation of the welfare of the mother. The Minister of Health therefore decided to additional financing, inter alia. that particular area of feeding a pregnant woman. Recently, as you know, a law was adopted at the Council of Ministers which guarantees free medicines for pregnant women. Of course, we are in favour of maximum protection of the physiology of pregnancy, childbirth and childbirth, but there are situations where it is inevitable that drugs are needed that determine the health of the mother, the health of the child, and these medicines are often very expensive. These are hormonal drugs or medicines that a woman has taken before and during pregnancy she must also take, e.g. diabetes medicines, hypertension, etc. They are an important item in spending, in family budgets, so the Minister of Health, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, decided to support even this area. These (the bell) actions indicate that indeed the family for our government, the Government of Law and Justice is the most important. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u28	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak from the parliamentary club PSL-Kukiz15 has decided to ask a question about problems with waste records since 1 January 2020. And this question was answered by the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Climate Minister Sławomir Mazurek. You're welcome, sir. You have two minutes to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u29	Thank you very much, Marshal, for those two minutes. Pretty please, sir. Dear Marshal, Minister! The database on products and packaging and waste management, known as BDO, is an IT system established under the Waste Act of 14 December 2012. An integral part of the BDO is a register of operators introducing products in packaging and waste management, which was launched on 24 January 2018. Since 1 January 2020, it is planned to launch further system modules, i.e. a register module and a reporting module. The amendment obliges most companies to record the generated waste from next year. The obligation to register in an online database raises many problems, as those obliged to register in the system do not know much about this system, they do not have full knowledge. In addition, the problem concerns the lack of clear rules determining who should register in the BDO waste database and record what is discarded as waste. In addition, it introduces an obligation to determine the types of waste. The rigorous penalties associated with this are from PLN 5 million to PLN 1 million. This raises considerable concerns for entrepreneurs that they may fail to comply with these commitments. That's why I'm asking you a question. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is the database fully prepared for action from 1 January next year? How many entrepreneurs have registered in the system so far, Minister? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u30	Thank you very much, sir. Please take your stand and respond to Minister Sławomir Mazurka.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u31	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Entrepreneurs have been obliged to keep waste records since 2001, so we are not introducing any new obligations on 1 January. The provisions on registration and reporting shall not change. The only change concerns the replacement of the existing form of paper waste management documents by electronic form. This should make it easier for entrepreneurs. At the same time, we are addressing all those entrepreneurs who have made comments to us about allowing a parallel operation of the base, and such records will be presented for implementation. As such requests have been made by traders, this date of entry into force of the base has been transferred for many years since 2012. In 2015, there was a tender proposal, but unfortunately there were no regulations ready to carry out this tender, and it would not have succeeded. Therefore, the database was finally prepared by the Institute for Environmental Protection by entrusting in-house. He was preparing it on schedule. The schedule has been kept, the base has been prepared. The production version has already been launched for entrepreneurs. They can do a number of activities there. Of course, all functionality will be able to be run in accordance with the law, because the database, its scope refers to what is in the law. According to the law, which was amended in the middle of the last year, these functionalities, these other modules... It's an agile method, a method by which administration tries to make more modules, a module by module, where certain assumptions are made, then checks are carried out, analytical teams work, and ultimately this is prepared for production in production teams. According to this methodology, also with Prince's methodology, this project was conducted. An integral part of BDO is a register of operators introducing products in packaging and waste management. It was launched on 24 January 2018. The registration deadline expired in mid-2018. The number of entities currently in the BDO register is over 165 000. At the same time, I would like to make it clear from this point that during the legislative and communication process there was information that 2 million could be interested. I would like to make it clear that all those economic operators which have so far not kept records in accordance with the 2001 Act are not obliged to register in the waste database. The only exception here are those who offer plastic bags, in accordance with the Directive, which must be subject to a charge, so this possibility of electrical reporting is the only novel. These 2 million that appear are elements of communication activities of various stakeholders and interest groups. They do not directly concern those entities, i.e. entities which produce municipal waste, do not have to register in the database, so hairdressers or small service points which have been in the municipal system so far, they do not have such a duty, and it is worth to say it clearly from this good place. January 1 will be launched, already in a version with all functionalities, BDO module registration and reporting. It's all ready after all the tests. Here we have a chance for comprehensive collection, management of waste management information. This will ensure that full electronic performance of registration, registration and reporting obligations is carried out by operators. From 1 January, entities will also be able to register through the database. Until now, this was done only by the marshal's offices, which had to write it down manually. Today you can do it. It's because of the base. Data analysis and evaluation will allow a diagnosis of the state of waste management, assessment and forecasting of trends. The introduction of extended waste management is ahead of us. It's good to have full knowledge of how much waste we produce and how we do it. they migrate in Poland. The special nature of the base is that it is a base that will track the shipment of waste mass. Hence the right instruments that will allow us to determine the mass and mode of movement. Unfortunately, it has happened very often, as you know from the media reports, but also from the intervention of the Environmental Protection Inspections, that these waste did not always go where it should go. We will be able to have this control, and we will be able to effectively fight the grey zone, but at the same time help all those entrepreneurs who operate honestly and suffer because other actors are acting in a way that is not entirely legal and even illegal. Surely the Environmental Protection Inspection, which is a control body, will help all actors. At the same time, I would like to say that the inspection deals with a wide range of other activities. On the other hand, if such assistance is expected by businesses, the inspection will also help in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u32	Thank you very much, Minister. The additional question will be asked by Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, club PSL-Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u33	Thank you very much. Minister! Thank you for that information. I think that may be a part of your concern, but maybe not quite, because there are 2 million entities, just like you said, someone there said. Probably these entrepreneurs are afraid of it, they're worried. Does that mean 165,000. entrepreneurs who have registered, this is the full state and more entrepreneurs will not register? I understand that there is no such fear that someone will be subject to it, that he will be punished with this quite high penalty, because up to PLN 1 million. That's one of my questions. Did I understand correctly that, during the transitional period, it would be possible to keep this record in paper form? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will anyone have a choice, whether electronically or paperly? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u34	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u35	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for pointing out that the number of 2 million never it was not a target number, because from the perspective of 2001, it is a fairly long time to observe different trends, such a number never fell. She was artificially generated. She has generated us a lot of interest on the infolines when it comes to questions, but she has also given us an opportunity to present herself to the spokesperson of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who intervened in this case, so that beyond what is in the law, to make such an explanation in the case of all entrepreneurs, that what I said in the first part of my speech would take the form of such an explanation in accordance with the constitution for business, with Article. 33 of this constitution, which indicates on the one hand, that any doubts should be settled in favour of the trader and on the other hand gives the opportunity to prepare specific explanations which indicate who is subject to such a obligation. There's a certain difficulty here when it comes to estimating all entities. It's a dynamic market, it's changing, some actors are out, new players are emerging. We were hoping there might be more. We're assuming this number is 160 grand. It won't grow dramatically. At the same time, we are prepared because, on the one hand, our entire philosophy is based on hard solutions, servers, on the other hand, we use innovative solutions such as a hyperscale cloud that allows us, depending on the movement, to accept all interested. As far as registration is concerned, this will also make it easier to do so from 1 January onwards from your home computer and register with this database through a trusted profile. This process, as far as registration is concerned, is not difficult, long and complicated. I was talking about the inspection. In the case of inspections, even if it carries out checks, those sanctions are for lack of registration. It takes a few minutes to enter the base, so there's no problem. The control practice is that when an entity removes certain shortcomings in the control process, there are no sanctions, especially as it is also about measuring. There is no such threat to entrepreneurs. At the same time, we encourage those who have not registered since 2018 and are engaged in waste management activities. Although there is no such risk as we are looking at when it comes to spreading on the scale of the Polish map. All the most important companies that do this have registered and will be able to benefit from it. One last question, sir. This system will work in parallel, so we will allow, we will allow the paper version for six months, but the most important tool is the database (the bell), which moves normally, according to schedule and plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u36	Thank you very much, Minister, Mr. Marshal. Thank you very much, Minister, Mr. Marshal. Thank you, Minister and Member. Welcome and greet the children at the gallery. Oh, how nice. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Czesław Hoc from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice would like to ask on his behalf and on behalf of absent Members Leszek Dobrzyński, Artur Szałabawka, Michał Jacha, Małgorzata Golińska and Mr Paweł Chefnernaker on the proposal to abolish the spa fee in the spa communities contained in the This question will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Minister Marek Niebżak. Mr President, I would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u37	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! To clarify, I would like to say that my colleagues now have very important responsibilities and I am a representative. All of us. The question, on the other hand, seems to be very short, because the question to be resolved is short. Why? Because a few weeks ago it appeared to the order of the Ministry of Sport and Tourism, the former Ministry of Sport and Tourism, a White Paper regulating the system of tourism promotion in Poland. And there, apart from some positive aspects, among others. there is a question of short-term rental, there are other issues, there is a very worrying issue about spa communities, because there is a sentence about the intention to eliminate the spa charge, which is practically to some extent or, above all, compensation for the fact that spa can not, for example. profit from industry. The spa fee is therefore very beneficial, necessary. It strengthens the value of landscape, tourist, recreational, etc. So my question is very short: Is the Ministry of Development, the Department of Health, the Department of Tourism at the Ministry of Development, or is it going to... There is a proposal to abolish the spa fee. I'll just remind you or emphasize that. the largest spa in Poland, i.e. Kołobrzeg, Venice of the North, received PLN 33 million in the previous year. The construction of this fee is as follows: half of these funds are obtained from holiday makers' and tourists' fees and half from the central budget. So that 16.5 million of holidaymakers and 16.5 million add the central budget. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u38	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u39	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you. Mr. Speaker! I could also very briefly, because this is a very specific question: yes, no. I can also answer very briefly: there are no such plans. Well, maybe we should try that because we still have a lot of questions. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development Marek Nieżak: Still, huh? Because I wanted two sentences of justification. That's literally two sentences. There you go, great. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development Marek Nieżak: The White Paper is an analytical document, and by publishing it and consulting it, this is how we treat it. It's a material for discussion and analysis. There are no plans to cancel the fee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u40	Thank you, Minister. Additional question, sir?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u41	There's no more questions. Mr. Marshal, a quick shot, accurate, reasonable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u42	Gentlemen, that's how I like it. Great. Thank you very much. Let's move on. Members of Małgorzata Tracz, Urszula Zielińska and Agnieszka Pomaska and Bartłomiej Sienkiewicz and Tomasz Aniśko decided to ask a question on the European Union's objective of achieving climate neutrality by 2050 and on the actions of the Polish government in relation to its implementation. This question will be answered by the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Climate Minister Sławomir Mazurek. I invite Mrs Margaret Tracz to ask you a question. Time - one minute, Mrs. Messenger. There you go. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Two minutes, ma'am. That's right, thank you. I'm learning slowly, but I'll never make a mistake again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u43	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A week ago, Prime Minister Morawiecki announced an alleged giant success. This alleged success was due to the fact that Poland was exempted from the EU's objective of climate neutrality in 2050. In the round words we were told that the negotiated records would increase Poland's chance to obtain real, concrete money from the just transformation fund and the European Central Bank and that the negotiated release would contribute to improving the quality of life of the Polish family. They wanted to convince us that the government is pursuing an ambitious yet rational climate and energy policy, which is supposed to be the best policy, adapted to the needs of Poland and the Polish society. It's true. Minister! You really think somebody's gonna fall for that? For this demagogue? Because it's pure demagogy, not strategy. That's the truth. This decision was a powerful example of the fact that this government has a short-sighted policy of lack of ambition, a policy at the expense of the future and safety of our children and grandchildren, a policy at the expense of the Polish economy. This decision leaves Poland, the only country that has denied Europe's climate policy, without European political or financial support, without a chance to participate in a fair transition fund and a 100-billion-dollar budget that the European Union will devote to this task. Today, the climate and energy policies of the government lack ambition and purpose. And that's why I asked you my questions too. First: Does the government plan to set any date for Poland's achievement of climate neutrality? If so, what is it? Next: At what stage is the development of a new version of the integrated national energy and climate plan by 2030? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will the changes take into account the recommendations of the European Commission and be sent to it in time? And another: Is it planned to update Poland's energy policy in order to adapt it to the National Energy and Climate Plan by 2030? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u44	Thank you, Mrs Margaret Tracz. I invite Minister Sławomir Mazurka.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u45	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Government of Law and Justice, the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, is pursuing a rational climate and energy policy, a policy that is in line with the aspirations, not only of the European Union, but of all those who participate in the climate convention. This Polish minister was the president of the climate conference, this summit in Katowice ended with a great success of the international community and multilateralism. We have succeeded through our commitment. So we do not lack ambition, but we do not lack rational arguments to conduct it in a balanced way, so that - as the United Nations says - we do not cause additional social exclusion so that no one stays behind and to exploit the synergies of all three conventions, Rio, the climate convention for biodiversity conservation and combating desertification... We are also active in the international arena. It was the government of Prime Minister Beata Szydło who achieved success as well. in Paris, where the Paris Agreement was signed, of which Poland is a member. Poland undertook to achieve climate neutrality in the second half of the century in accordance with the provisions of the Paris Agreement. But Poland is also an active member of the European Union and participates actively in all forums which are climate policy, energy policy, as well as synergies with other challenges, megatrends like achievements in terms of what is... Also in the new green governance, i.e. what concerns the circular economy, this is also an element and this synergy we will also want to build. However, in trying to answer your specific questions for a shorter time, I would like to say that it may refer to what you said at the beginning and what I had as the last question, namely what happened at the European Council meeting. The European Council has set targets for achieving climate neutrality already in 2050. At the same time, it decided that Poland would be exempted from achieving climate neutrality in 2050. We're talking about a climate crisis here. There's been no such discount on the Council's findings for 20 years. Poland will be able to develop at its own pace. Because our situation is far different from that of Western European countries when it comes to our energy mix when it comes to the capital we have. We do not want to lead to such a situation as in France, to mass social protests. We want our path to climate neutrality to be a sustainable path that takes everyone into account. I would also like to point out that the Council's provisions reflect in the necessary legislation everything that is in European legislation. It is also worth noting that the costs of Poland's possible achievement of climate neutrality are much higher than the EU average and may imply additional investment of 1 GDP. This does not mean that Poland will not take action towards a low-carbon transformation. Poland, as I said, as part of the Paris Agreement, is committed to achieving climate neutrality. We will reach it at our own pace, in accordance with the Paris agreements. At the same time, we have not blocked the ambitions of other Member States which believe that they can achieve climate neutrality, have another mix, have nuclear power plants that we have not built for 30 years, and we could reach even further. The fact that we have not blocked, also allows us to continue in the negotiation process, we are still an active, ambitious member of the European Union and at the moment there is no risk that we will be deprived of EU funding for climate purposes. The climate neutrality process will be supported by a fair transition mechanism that triggers investment of EUR 100 billion for the period 2021 to 2027. For many weeks Poland has been in dialogue with the European Commission on support criteria and the need to include the future mechanism of regions and sectors most vulnerable to the adverse effects of transformation. The Council will confirm this approach and will continue to negotiate the most favourable conditions for Poland. I would also like to call for us to be honest about climate neutrality. The fight against climate change is, in our opinion, a very important problem, a challenge. After all, we observe extreme weather phenomena, we observe droughts, we observe heavy rains. It is also necessary to adapt to climate change. We've developed plans for 44 cities over 100,000. Inhabitants, we will continue to do so. However, we must not forget that in our message this necessary energy transformation can lead to greater costs for citizens. Therefore, it is necessary to provide reliable information on the costs and benefits of achieving climate neutrality. We would like to avoid, as I said earlier, the situations that took place in France. I have 33 seconds left, so I'm gonna try to answer my first question about the plan. The National Energy and Climate Plan has been examined by the European Committee and will be submitted to the European Commission as planned. By the end of the year? By the end of the year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u46	Thank you, Minister. I ask Mr Bartłomiej Sienkiewicz to ask for an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u47	We are dealing with a representative of the Ministry of Climate, who is also dealing with trash and wildlife for the time being. This is the best summary of how you deal with this climate. The unseparated functions of the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Climate cause that, on the one hand, a representative of the government is talking about concern for the climate, on the other hand it flows smoothly into the garbage, and we still have a talk in the Seym today about killing wild boars. And my question is this: Is the decision taken by the Polish government at the last meeting of the Council nothing more than a copy of the famous 27:1 which is actually a complete discharge from the future of Europe in terms of intensive efforts to transform the economy, society, completely different living conditions? I would like to stress that this decision is nothing more than an actual discharge. Perhaps Poland from the most important process that will be (the bell) in Europe, and your explanation, Minister, only strengthens me in this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u48	Thank you. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u49	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! I think that the issue of garbage is important, especially because we are trying to clean up the stones so that Poland is dynamically developing, and I would not trivialize it. But I would like to make it clear that when it comes to planning, preparing all of this, which concerns climate neutrality, about development also in terms of climate neutrality, we are trying to do it and we are doing it, for us it is very important. We are developing what concerns prosumer energy. My current program is a program that allows Poles and Poles to install photovoltaic panels. This is all about what climate neutrality is also associated with in terms of renewable energy sources, this is one of the elements of climate neutrality. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Thank you very much for that opinion from the room. At the same time, the Clean Air programme offers a chance for deep thermomodernization, replacing heat sources with greener ones. I think that no government has ever done and prepared such programmes that allow not only selected social groups or public institutions, but also citizens to strive for this climate neutrality so that they can also use what modern technology offers in terms of heating, in terms of electricity generation. But, of course, climate neutrality is not just a prosumer - it's also all that awaits us in the area of agriculture, in the area of transport. Therefore, for the Ministry of Climate, a very important element is the promotion and development of low-carbon transport, electromobility. We will also focus on this in our work. At the same time, all that is involved in these tasks, we also want to show as a national contribution to developing this climate neutrality, well prepared for it, so as to actually use it for the development of the country. Of course, a dynamic pursuit, such unplanned one, may be a threat to economic development, but well prepared, based on the best knowledge, is a certain opportunity. I think that in the Ministry of Climate this opportunity we will want to show and use all this so that we can develop and these long-term delays in reducing environmental pressures will decrease. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]] Based on Russian coal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u50	Thank you very much. On the results of the examination of students' skills, questions will be asked by Teresa Wargock and Mr Andrzej Kryj from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. I ask Mrs Teresa Wargock to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u51	Thank you, Marshal. The PISA study shall be organised by an international consortium supervised by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development and by representatives of the Member States. It's the biggest study of students' skills in the world. Skills in reading with understanding, reasoning in natural sciences and mathematical reasoning are being studied. The study is carried out every 3 years. In Poland it took place for the first time in 2000. The Polish edition of this study is conducted by a team of the Institute of Educational Research. The study shows the level and diversity of skills of 15-year-olds, skills that are developed during school education and outside school. In 2018, 79 countries and regions participated in the survey and the number of students surveyed exceeded 660 thousand. Poland was represented by 5635 students, 15-year-olds from 227 schools. Minister! What is the level of skills crucial for the future of the young generation of Poles in the researched areas against the background of other countries participating in the survey?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u52	Thank you very much. The State Secretary at the Ministry of National Education, Minister Marzena Machalek, will answer the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u53	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, the PISA study is a very important international study, which engages more and more countries in the world and, as it should be pointed out, primarily serves to assess the competences of 15-year-old students in the field of reading, mathematics and natural sciences. It is a valuable source of information about these skills, as well as other contextual conditions that serve to create, create or improve these skills. And it is worth noting that Polish students did much better in this study than in 2015. We remember that in all areas in this study there was a dozen-point difference from the previous study, i.e. not only that we have progress, we can see a really big reflection of students in terms of the problems that arose in 2015. And it would be worth looking at the reasons that affected that result, as well as the latter. Of course, our best results are at the top of the world and above the OECD average. The best results in this study were achieved by students from four regions: China, Hong Kong, Singapore and Macao. In mathematical reasoning Polish students are ahead of all but young Estonians in the European Union, within the meaning of the text Polish young people take fourth place among the countries of the Union, in the reasoning of natural sciences is in the third position. Here, as you pointed out, there was a good research group, a group of students from many, it was a double drawing process. This seems to be a very representative study. And now what needs to be stressed - the PISA study is a skill study, not an education system. Fifteen-year-olds are tested above all. And that's hard to compare when it comes to systems, because we're checking not systems, but skills. This is important and this should be emphasised. What is also important and what is currently being analysed - this report consists of three parts, these parts are actually three reports. One of them is about what the students know, what they can do - mostly about the results and what we talked about. Another is where students can succeed in equal opportunities in education due to social factors, and how important things for school life are for students, such as the school climate, perception of teachers' work, student relationships, quality of life of pupils, parents' belief in their own development opportunities and parents' involvement in education. In other words, PISA research is not only a result of these skills, but also of seeing whether there are social inequalities, the quality of life of pupils, the well-being of psychosocial competences, the working style of teachers, social attitudes towards students, and career plans and aspirations. All these research results are very important for the government's skills strategy. The establishment of this strategy is coordinated by the Minister of Education, and at work he helps us and supports us OECD. In fact, the latest report, which is one of the cornerstones of this Integrated Skills Strategy, points to the right orientations that we have taken in terms of vocational, sectoral and programme reforms. I also want to make it clear that it would be worth paying attention here, because we did not mention that there are relatively large social inequalities in Poland when it comes to education. They are not as big as in Germany or France, but among the countries with the highest results we have these inequalities. And that is the task that, as an education system, as a state, we have to face. It is still not changing a bit the best perception of the school's climate, i.e. Polish students have a quite low sense of belonging to the school and the degree of roots in the environment. Poland is among those countries where greater sense of belonging to the school correlates with lower results. That's interesting, too. The greater the sense of belonging, the worse the outcome. That, too, I think, is an important issue that forces us to reflect. In general, such analyses show that it is quite difficult for students to come out of cultural niches. Of course, we have the lowest percentage of students with the lowest skills and a very high percentage of students with high skills, but if students are already in this group with the lowest skills, it is difficult for them to get out. This is often dependent on cultural factors. Changing this state is also a task for you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u54	Thank you, Minister. The additional question will be asked by Mr Andrzej Kryj. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u55	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The study we are talking about shows the level and diversity of skills of 15-year-olds, among others. in the field of mathematical reasoning. And there is really a reason to be proud here, because we look great against the background of European countries. Our score is 516 points. Only Estonians and Dutch are better. But I'd like to show you a different situation. Namely, those who undergo a PISA examination, after a few years take the math exam. And here it turns out that math is their Achilles' heel and the cause of many prom failures. 8% High school students and 16% The students of the technicians of this math don't seem to think so. What happens when students, who are great at mathematical reasoning, speak colloquially, at math school, and how can they do that? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u56	Thank you. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u57	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm not gonna answer that clearly. There are many reasons, the cause is complex. We know there was a time when math didn't have that position at school. This is a difficult object. His teaching was of lower rank, because it was not a compulsory subject on the graduate level. It's different today. It's also a question of how and what PISA's researches, because it's researching the necessary mathematics, which allows us to find ourselves in the present, so when it comes to comparing it to the Matura, it's not really possible to put one into one. We need to look at how these present students are gonna take their high school exams. I would like to make it clear that we are in the contextal research and contextual research and the discussion and analysis of these context research, and today it cannot be said that the data collected under the PISA allows a clear indication of the reasons for the country's average specific result. Attempted interpretation requires every look at the context of the country. I would like to make this very clear. And with math, we still have a lot of work to do, including the method of teaching math, preparing and improving teachers. PISA research, which I didn't tell you about, serves a lot of questions. As far as improving our education system is concerned, although this research does not examine the basics of the programme, it is always worth looking at these foundations as well as teacher education. All of this is a big and valuable source of information for us, while such research on students who give their high school exams, which would show us so comprehensively against the background of other countries, we do not have, so I will not speak clearly here about what is the cause here, because this is not one issue. I would also like to say that the OECD strongly stresses that the aim of the study - I would like to draw attention to it - is not to create a ranking of countries in terms of results, but to provide a rich background knowledge for each country so that these national education policies are shaped in a responsible and wise manner. That is why we take this into account, as I have said, in the creation of a horizontal document such as the Integrated Skills Strategy. It makes sense to discuss many factors for changing results, but if we ask why we have such good results, what has affected this, it is what the OECD stresses, that results in all countries are strongly correlated with economic development. The richer the country, the better the results. Positive economic changes in Poland promote good educational outcomes by improving quality of life. Social policy in recent years, social transfers have helped to achieve better results (The Bell), especially by students from the poorest families. Of course, we have a lot of work ahead of us to make these results better and better. Building a responsible skills strategy and making responsible use of these EU funds in the next perspective - ahead of us. Yes, thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u58	Thank you very much to the Members of Law and Justice. Thank you very much, Minister. I welcome Mrs Monica Rosa, Mrs Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłocka, Mr Michał Szczerba, who will ask questions about the avalanchely increasing number of illegal institutions providing 24-hour care to chronically ill, disabled and elderly people. These questions will be answered by Minister Marcin Zielenecki, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. Please, sir. Mr Michael Szczerba. That's what I'm told. That's what you agreed, but if you want to switch, switch. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u59	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Polish society is ageing, but we also want to draw the attention of the High House today to the avalanchely increasing number of illegal institutions providing 24-hour care to chronically ill, disabled and elderly people. On 19 July this year, the Sejm amended the Social Assistance Act. However, it seems that this project, which entered into force already in August, despite the increase in financial penalties, despite the possibility to impose so-called. the immediate feasibility did not result in a reduction in the number of illegal establishments. Ladies and gentlemen! There may be a lot of abuse in these facilities. There are cases of inhuman treatment, situations that threaten the lives and health of the pensioners. Such cases were, for example, in Zgierz, in Wolicy, in Trzcianka. These are completely unacceptable situations where human rights may not be respected. Ladies and gentlemen. We have data from the Mazowieckie voivodship. And only in the Warsaw region - this is the area: Warsaw plus neighbouring districts - the number of illegal nursing homes increased from 60 to 72. Minister, what is the government doing to improve the surveillance of the voivodships? What is the cooperation of the voivodships with the police, with the local government? Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to draw attention to the fact that there have been concrete proposals that have also made it possible to take better care of the elderly. You rejected - I am talking to Members of the Law and Justice - on 4 October 2018 the bill (The Bell) on helping people on their own. You also consistently reject the amendment concerning the National Alzheimer's Programme. 470 thousand. Poles and Poles are people suffering from dementia. I'd like to know how the government wants to deal with this avalanchely increasing number of illegal nursing homes. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u60	Thank you very much. Under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers, you will reply to Minister Marcin Zielenecki. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u61	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I think it is worth first of all referring to the statistics, the fresh data that we collected on 16 and 17 December 2019. I immediately say that these figures do not confirm the avalanche increase in the number of institutions which illegally provide 24-hour care to disabled people, chronically ill and elderly people. I think that even the thesis about the increase in the number of such facilities also stands, so to speak, in question. I would like to reassure you: there is certainly no avalanche increase in the number of such facilities. But let's refer to the statistics. Data for the last four years. Data collected from 16 voivodship offices, from social policy departments, concerning the number of proceedings concerning illegal activities carried out by such institutions. The year 2016-88 of proceedings initiated in such cases. The following years show a slow decrease in the number of such proceedings. The year 2019 is 72 proceedings initiated in such cases. That's the second important piece of information. Number of decisions issued imposing penalties for the operation of such an illegal establishment. 2016 - 42 decisions to impose a penalty, 2017 and 45, 2018 and 27, 2019 and 43. The Member also mentioned an increase in cases where human rights violations occur in such facilities. Let me remind you that a voivode may, in such cases, issue a decision ordering the operation to cease immediately. 2016 - four decisions, 2017 - zero such decisions, 2018 - also zero, in 2019 a single decision ordering the immediate cessation of business was issued. We also have data on the potential number of illegal facilities providing 24/7 care during this period. This is the number of institutions subject to a penalty for carrying out such illegal activities, but they have not legalized this activity or activity - according to information held by the voivodship offices - they have not ceased. This number is thus maintained at about a constant level, i.e. About 100 such facilities. I agree with you here that the Mazowieckie voivodeship is unfortunately a disgusting leader in this ranking, because the largest number of illegal institutions, about 60 and 70, are institutions operating in the territory of the Mazowieckie voivodship. So the biggest problem with illegally run institutions is the voivodship, about 21% the proceedings initiated in the years 2016 and 2019 concerned this voivodship, as well as more than 50% institutions potentially operating illegally are those operating in the territory of the Mazowieckie voivodship. The Dolnośląskie, Pomeranian and Silesian voivodships also have a similar problem. As far as the measures taken by the voivods on institutions that operate illegally are concerned, the voivode may impose a penalty of 20 000 on the operation of such an establishment without authorisation. PLN, and if such activity continues, a penalty of 40,000 may be imposed. zł. He mentioned that on 19 July 2019 the Sejm adopted a law amending the Social Assistance Act. Part of the provisions of this law entered into force on 4 October, some of which had not yet entered into force since the date of entry into force of some of the provisions was 1 January 2020. The new rules include: the possibility of imposing a penalty of 40 000. zł to an entity which, upon receipt of a valid penalty for driving without authorisation of one establishment, transfers it to another place or starts running another establishment. In order to ensure that the flow of information between different voivodships is as efficient as possible, we have introduced provisions that provide for a special list of penalties, which is powered by information from different voivodships. This list shall then be made available to the voivods who are investigating the imposition of a penalty or the adoption of a decision on the withdrawal of the authorisation to operate (the bell) of such an establishment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u62	Thank you, Minister. The additional question will be asked by Monika Rosa. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u63	Mr. Marshal! Minister! We know very well that the number of pending proceedings may not give up the full scale of such illegal nursing homes. Hence my questions. Do you have an idea or maybe the voivodships who have an obligation to supervise houses both legally and illegally, how to control the number of such houses? What does cooperation with the police and supervision of the operation of such illegal facilities look like? How to improve the flow of information between different voivodships so that there is no real transfer from place to place of such illegal establishments? And how do we really stop growth, however, still increasing, especially in the Mazowieckie voivodship, the number of such illegal establishments? I would also ask, because I am from Silesia, for information about how many such houses operate in the Silesian Voivodeship and what actions the voivod took in this matter. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u64	Thank you very much, madam. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u65	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! As regards the issues of cooperation between voivods and local authorities and with the police in this area, I would like to say that, of course, local government is part of the public administration system, which is responsible for carrying out social assistance tasks. So that this is the level of the public administration structure, which is constantly monitoring the situation and has, it can be said, in terms of the subject matter of our discussion, the best access to information about these types of institutions that provide unfounded, without the legal basis for such activities. To be honest, from the information we requested from the voivodship authorities, it did not appear that there were any signals about a lack of good cooperation or, you might say, some distortions in terms of obtaining such information and cooperation with the local government in this area. As far as cooperation with the police is concerned, I would like to draw the attention of the honourable Members to the fact that this amendment, which we have mentioned, does not cover all actions aimed at ensuring that this system of supervision and control is as efficient as possible. I would like to draw attention to the criminal rules that have appeared in the Social Assistance Act. Art. 127a of this law is a provision designed to eliminate cases of obstructing or preventing inspections by imposing an obligation to provide police support during such checks. I would like to draw attention to the provisions of the Penal Code which criminalise the cessation or obstruction of the performance of business activities to a person authorised to carry out supervision and control activities in social assistance agencies or in facilities providing 24-hour care to disabled persons, chronically ill persons and elderly persons. I would like to say this: October 4th is the first date for the entry into force of some of these new provisions of the Social Assistance Act, which I mentioned, January 1st, this is the second date. We need to wait a little bit for the impact assessment of this amendment. I assume that these effects will be positive and the number of illegal establishments carrying out such activities will decrease. About the information about the Silesian voivodship... [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's gonna be a little while. With regard to the number of proceedings concerning illegal activities in the Silesian Voivodeship, there were six such proceedings in 2016 and there were two proceedings in 2019. Number of decisions imposing a penalty: one in 2016, one in 2019 The potential number of care providers without authorisation is six in 2016. At the same level, this number is maintained in 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u66	Thank you, Minister. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, the question on the implementation of senior policy and further plans and directions for improving the quality of life of Polish seniors will be asked by Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Barbara Bartus, Lidia Burzyńska and Urszula Ruseck. Minister Stanisław Szwed will answer the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. As agreed, I'll be the first to ask Mrs. Joanna Borowiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Seniors are an important social group in Poland, and their professional and life experiences are invaluable to everyone, especially younger generations. One of the priorities of the Government of Law and Justice is a coherent and comprehensive senior policy. It is also an important part of the implementation of the strategy for responsible development. The senior programmes implemented by the government respond to the challenges posed by the Polish demographic policy and demographic processes. The purpose of these programmes is not only to improve the living conditions of people in the silver age, but also to exploit their potential and life experience to the benefit of all. Their main objectives are to improve the quality of life of seniors, to enable them to be independent as long as possible, to ensure safety and to create conditions to take up activity. In the previous term, the government has taken a number of measures in this area. Here you should mention such programs as: Senior+., Leki 75+., care 75+., Emerity+., Mama 4+. or, finally, Accessibility+. In the interest of constantly improving the quality of life of older people, we ask the Minister: What tangible results did the Polish seniors have in implementing the programmes dedicated to them in 2015 and 2019? I will put the floor here to Mrs Barbara Bartus.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u68	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u69	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! She mentioned a number of aid schemes for local governments, which are being implemented by the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. They are primarily aimed at seniors as help. Seniors, however, are concerned with health problems. I would like to ask the Minister: What is the cooperation of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy with the Ministry of Health to provide comprehensive assistance (Dawn) and care for seniors? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u70	I invite Minister Stanislaw Swede. I'm asking you kindly for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u71	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Messengers! Thank you so much for that question. I will try to answer them, referring mainly to what happened last year. It would be difficult for us all four years to discuss in such a short time. The subject that you have raised is very important to the Government of Law and Justice. The senior programmes that we are implementing and which we will continue next year are extremely important and have three objectives. On the one hand, there are problems with demographics - we have a good time, the lives of older people are getting longer. We must ensure that these people can participate actively in everyday life. We must also support them financially in order to give them a better chance of developing and surviving their old age in good conditions. I'm gonna talk about a couple of programs that we've put in and we know very well about. It's worth remembering. I mean, for example, this latest project, which has been implemented, i.e. "Emerity+. It is a one-off pension - PLN 1100. It came into force this year. The benefits were covered by 9.8 million insured persons. The funds we have spent on them are over PLN 10.8 billion. This solution was expected by society. According to the CBOS study, 84% support them persons. This solution is part of actions to support older people. The so-called popular thirteen is already present in the media, public. For these people. It's a lot of support. The second very important issue, which concerns pensioners and pensioners, is, of course, valorisation. We know that the discussion of valorization is still taking place in Parliament. Let me put it this way: in the last five years, pensions have increased by 1/4. There is the highest increase in pensions in recent years. In 2018, they increased by almost 3%. That was the highest growth rate. This year's valorization - it always takes place on 1 March - is 2,86%. The important thing in this regard was that we introduced a percentage-quota valorization, which is that we determined the lowest value of the benefit at the level of 70 PLN. If we hadn't applied this mechanism, the lowest pensions would have been half as small in terms of valorisation. That's a good solution too. Of course, the important thing I want to mention is to raise the lowest pension from PLN 880 to PLN 1100. That growth was significant. That also significantly improved... Of course, this is also the case for total incapacity for work, family pension and social pension, i.e. for all the persons mentioned by me who are entitled to the lowest pension and pension is PLN 1100. Another very important program, I think expected, is the program "Mama 4+" aimed at those mothers and fathers who raised at least four children. This is a new solution that entered into force on 1 March 2019. It is based on the fact that if someone did not have any pension entitlement, he receives the amount of the lowest pension, i.e. in this case 1100 PLN. If someone has a lower pension because they haven't earned a retirement pension, they have funding. From the data we have, over 52,000. benefits are paid, from this in full, i.e. PLN 1100, PLN 20,000, which is a little less than half of the people who were not entitled at all, mothers, mainly mothers, but there are fathers who participate in this program. So that this is also a very important solution, of course it will continue. The 75-plus care programme is aimed at self-government to strengthen care services. In this case we are talking about residents of municipalities up to 60,000, i.e. those places where this support needs more. We have estimated that resources are also needed for this programme. They're at our ministry's disposal. In the context of this question, Mrs Bartus, on the promotion of cooperation with healthcare, with the Ministry of Health - of course in this area as much as possible, later also programmes or supplementary services in the amount of PLN 500. That's the opposite, too. 427 municipalities benefited from this scheme. I think this amount is important, too. And two shows because I'm running out of time, very important. The Senior+ programme - from 50 million investments to 80 million. In 2015, there was 30 million, an increase of 50 million, or 80 million. Amount allocated to local governments for the creation of day-to-day senior+ houses, senior+ clubs. At the end of this year, more than 800 facilities will operate. This will also greatly improve the situation of older people. The last programme, which I will briefly mention, is the ASOS programme, which is the social activity of older people. The programme, which has a funding of PLN 40 million. This year (the bell) from this programme was implemented 311 projects, the demand was higher. This is a programme aimed at non-governmental organisations that can benefit from these programmes. These programs are highly appreciated. I've only mentioned a few of those that show the role of our ministry when it comes to senior policy.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u72	Thank you, Minister. You'll finish after the follow-up question. Mrs Lidia Burzyńska! Please ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Currently, there are about 9 million people living in Poland who have 60+. It is known that the forecasts assume an increase of nearly 14 million in 2050, so older people will be around 40% our society. It is good that we live longer, but the challenges are also before the Ministry. So what? What goals do the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy have in mind to support people in the silver age and improve their quality of life?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u74	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u75	Mrs. Member! Mr. Marshal! We're going to continue these programs that I'm talking about because it's very important. This is a big increase in spending on senior policy, which we also treat as a family policy, because seniors are a very important part of our birth. The first issue is already in the public consultation. It will be adopted by the Council of Ministers, which is the 13th pension. This will be permanently included in the Act, i.e. it will no longer be a one-off benefit, but an additional benefit in the amount of the lowest pension. That's the first thing. The second thing: the issue of valorization. We maintain a percentage-quota valorization to make these lowest benefits increase, higher than they have been so far. In next year's budget, we ensure that this lowest benefit should increase by at least 70 PLN. We predict that the lowest pension will increase by PLN 100, to PLN 1200, which is also an increase in expenditure. We continue with the program "Senior+" We have the funds provided in the amount of PLN 80 million. The program is announced, we accept requests through local governments, local governments - to the regional offices until 7 January. So if one of the local authorities is interested, we encourage you to submit these requests. The ASOS programme of PLN 40 million allocated immediately in the beginning of January - the programme will be announced - is addressed to associations. We will both continue the 75+-care programme, and we will continue the programmes that result from our newly established fund for support for people with disabilities and now from the Solidarity Fund. We hope that today the Sejm will decide on the appointment, the conversion to the Solidarity Fund, where this section on pensioners will also be of great importance. It is worth recalling that in 2018 we adopted the document "Social policy towards the elderly 2030." Security - Participation - Solidarity on policy for older people. These activities are included, which I mentioned, but also new activities are included, among others. the appointment of a government representative for demography, which will somehow include older people, because this is important. Within the framework of these actions we undertake, support for seniors regarding their material security, participation in social life, active participation, but also this solidarity between the generations will be maintained, financially supported. The 500+ programme for non-self-employed people, which affects the majority of older people, i.e. 4.5 billion PLN. We're counting on more than 800,000. people will benefit from this programme. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u76	Thank you very much. Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice Waldemar Andzel, Andrzej Gawron and Jerzy Polaczek decided to ask a question on the prevention of accidents on rail trips. This question will be answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Minister Rafał Weber. As agreed, I would ask Mr Waldemar Andzel to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u77	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Rail and road journeys in our country are divided into four categories. The first one is category A, i.e. places with or without horns. Category B rides have semi-circles and self-contained traffic lights. Category C rides shall be equipped with a self-contained or on-board lighting signal. The best-protected are the journeys classified in category D, without horns and light-signalling devices. Statistics show that 99% all events on rail and road journeys are due to the wrong decisions of the drivers. The basic errors leading to tragedy are ignoring the sign "stop," driving under closed corners, avoiding half-horns. In view of the emerging information on tragedies, and especially on unguarded rail journeys, which are many in the country, and the increasing number of victims, I ask the Minister to answer the following question: What are the measures envisaged to secure or eliminate unguarded journeys? Is the exact number of such journeys known that are not secured in any way? What are the measures envisaged for drivers who ignore signs and closing corners? Thank you. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u78	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Mr Rafał Weber.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much, Mr President, for this question. Road safety, but also rail safety, are the overarching objectives of the Ministry of Infrastructure's activities and we can, on the basis of this question, speak about our actions in this area. Ladies and gentlemen! One of the main actions affecting increased safety on rail and road journeys, which are carried out by the Ministry of Infrastructure, is monitoring of journeys. At the end of 2018 we had 1343 rail and road journeys, which were equipped with monitoring. Secondly, the construction of multi-level crossings, i.e. viaducts. They are constructed primarily on those lines on which the target train speed is or will be at least 200 km/h. This is mainly about the Central Railway Bus, i.e. the 4th railway line and the E65 railway line between Warsaw and Gdynia. In the previous term of office of the Government of Law and Justice we have built a total of 395 two-level crossings, and by the end of the current term of office, i.e. by the end of 2023, we are planning to build another 417 overpasses. We want to avoid such a direct collision between trains and cars. Thirdly, we are modernising existing rail and road journeys in category D. This involves changing the category of journeys to a higher category and thus the equipment of journeys into modern safety devices. These activities fall within the scope of railway investments included in the national railway plan. In the previous term of our government, we have modernised a total of 1737 rail and road journeys, and by the end of this term we are planning to modernise the next 1257 rail journeys. Fourthly, when it comes to non-public roads, we remove Category D crossings or convert to Category F crossings. Non-public crossings are secured by retro-reflectors closed to a padlock, to which the keys are held only by the user who has concluded an appropriate agreement with the railway infrastructure manager. And that's the answer to question number one. Ladies and gentlemen! Question 2 concerned the number of journeys which are not secured in any way. As of 31 December 2018, of all journeys, including 12 801, 6580, are category D rail-road journeys, i.e. those on which the road manager is obliged to affix the A-10 mark, i.e. rail crossing without dams, or the B-20 mark, i.e. the "stop' mark, meaning that there must be an absolute stop before entering the journey in case the conditions of visibility are not observed. Ladies and gentlemen! The number of Category D journeys is reduced from year to year. At the end of 2017, there were 6017 such journeys, and at the end of 2016, there were 7047 of them, i.e. within 2 years we reduced the number of D journeys by nearly 500 by various types of investments. So that we have greatly increased safety when it comes to rail-road journeys. As regards the answer to the third question, what measures are envisaged for drivers not to disregard the law, PKP PLK has been running a social campaign since 2005. The primary task of the campaign is to educate road users by raising awareness of the risks arising from the failure to exercise caution on rail-road journeys and to shape behaviour and consolidate desirable social attitudes. As part of the PKP PLK campaign, they also organise seminars for driving instructors. Here, the UTK, the Railway Transport Office, is also playing a significant role, which runs a social campaign for children of pre-school and school age, as well as their educators and teachers. At the same time, preparatory work is underway for the pilot installation of road traffic offences recording equipment on rail and road journeys of categories B and C identified by PKP PLK within the framework of the automatic road traffic surveillance system carried out in the Main Inspector of Road Transport. The planned deadline for the implementation of these installations is Q4 2021. In addition, I would like to inform you that in October this year. a meeting was held by the Railway Transport Office. It concerned intelligent monitoring of category D journeys with the function of registering offences consisting of ignoring the B-20 mark, i.e. the "stop" mark. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u80	Thank you. The additional question is asked by Andrzej Gawron, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u81	Mr. Marshal! Minister! You mentioned that one way to prevent accidents on rail trips is to physically eliminate journeys, especially those who are not frequented. This applies to category D journeys. However, this is also the case, Minister, with difficulties for locals, those who live there. I have such a concrete example from the municipality of Lublin, where practically several families, if the elimination of the passage of category D occurs, will be cut off from the world. The argument is that the road that runs through the tracks is not on a public road. And I have a question about whether, in the light of the rules in force, it is possible to change the category of road from D. for category F. However, due to procedures, time-consuming procedures and costs incurred by local governments, it can be done with a certain time shift (the bell) that we have a category D... Thank you very much, sir. ...but after the declaration that the government wants to do it... Replying again, Mr Rafał Weber, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure. ...to bring...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u82	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We try individually, of course within the framework of law and within the limits of law, to approach each case of the elimination of category D rail crossings. I would very much like to ask you to give me an interest in this case personally. We will examine how this situation can be resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u83	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Members Jarosław Gonciusz and Wojciech Szarama, Club Law and Justice - question on updating the database of questions used during the driving test. Please, Mr Jarosław Gonciusz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u84	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Introducing the obligation to create the so-called Life corridors are designed to provide a shorter passage time for rescue services to victims, for whom every minute is often very important even a second. The proposed new legislation also introduces a zipper-driving obligation to reduce congestion and improve safety in the event of a lane change manoeuvre. The complete amendment is necessary in our order in the field of road traffic. However, I would like to draw attention to the need to analyse it in the context of the possibility of adapting the current scope of school driving to these specific and other provisions. The same is true of questions on the theoretical examination, which should be updated by taking into account the changes made. In view of this, I would like to ask whether the Ministry intends to take measures that will update the current scope of the exam as regards the issues that I have mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Weber, Minister of State, is responsible for the Ministry of Infrastructure. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u86	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Riding a zipper and a corridor of life are new obligations of drivers, which also with the participation of the High Chamber were introduced into the Polish legal order. We are very pleased that they have been accepted by drivers in a positive way. They undoubtedly increase safety on Polish roads. Without a doubt, the creation of a life corridor accelerates the arrival of emergency services at the scene of the accident and shortens the time of assistance, while driving to the slider smoothes traffic and causes congestion that may occur when one lane is narrowed and one lane disappears, simply does not form. I am very pleased that this is still being discussed, because it increases the awareness of Polish drivers when it comes to complying with these regulations of the Road Traffic Law. Minister Andrzej Adamczyk said from the very beginning that he would strive to ensure that questions concerning the slider and the corridor of life were also included in the issues, in the examination questions. And that's what's gonna happen. When planning to check the knowledge of drivers' candidates in the newly introduced road traffic rules, it should be borne in mind that most people currently taking the State driving test attended theoretical classes prior to their introduction and were introduced on 6 December this year. This means that even the best-prepared people did not have the opportunity to familiarise themselves with the traffic rules set out in the new rules. Therefore, with this in mind, we want to give current and future drivers' candidates time to get acquainted with these regulations, and we have decided to have the examination questions for the slider and the corridor of life in 3 months. So after 3 months of operation of these laws will appear in the examination questions for drivers or candidates for drivers questions related to the creation of a corridor of life and riding a slider. We will want drivers to comply with these regulations and thus increase road safety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Sharama has an additional question? No, not anymore.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u88	Mr Gonciusz has an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u89	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u90	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The previous question was a little provocative. The idea is to learn more about changes in the training of drivers. Can the Minister at least give us a little insight into the planned changes in the training of new drivers? If it's too wide a scope, maybe I'll ask for a written reply. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u91	Thank you very much. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u92	As requested, I will answer this question in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u93	Thank you very much. Thus, we have concluded our consideration of the agenda item: Questions on current matters. We have numerous formal requests. Please, Mr Krzysztof Smishek, with his proposal, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u94	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I submit a request on behalf of the Coalition Club of the Left for a break and a call to the Convention of Seniors to discuss the changes to the agenda of today's meeting. That is to say, the transfer of the debate on the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, which debated print 69, to the next session of the Sejm. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! What happened yesterday at the Committee on Justice and Human Rights calls for revenge to heaven. We finished work today at hours. 5:30 in the morning. So my colleagues, at least from my club, had no opportunity and no opportunity to read this report. Who's asking if we're kidding? This report appeared two minutes ago on the sejm site. It's a fundamental law, a system act. It's a project that goes into the basic functions of the state, and we have... Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much. ...at such a rapid pace to proceed on this report. This is a violation of all technical principles or work on bill projects. This law will fundamentally change the philosophy of Polish courts. He will subdue these courts of executive authority, gag the lips of Polish judges, break their spines. We cannot debate and proceed on this bill in this mode, in a mode of several hours. Then I ask you to take into account my formal proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u95	The Sejm agreed yesterday that we would proceed to second reading as soon as Members received the committee's report. Here you go, with a formal application from Mrs. Anna Żukowska, the Left Club. One minute, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u96	High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! I make a formal request to refer the draft law in question to the amendment of the Law on the System of General Courts, the Law on the Supreme Court and some other laws back to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights because the committee did not have enough time to read the amendments tabled by the applicants. Amendments have been tabled repeatedly to the amendments. A few corrections were the same number. In fact, it was not known who was reporting them, whether they really were Members of the applicant, or whether these amendments were coming from the Ministry of Justice, whose representatives were present at the committee meeting. Also, parliamentary clubs, members of clubs who are not members of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, had no opportunity and had no time to familiarise themselves with this project and with the amendments, as it was adopted in a completely extraordinary way. 10 hours of the Justice Committee's deliberations... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...and Human Rights. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u97	Thank you very much. This conclusion is unfounded at this stage of the procedure. Mr Boris Budka with a formal request. Me? No, Mr Boris Budka. There's no envoy. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk. There it is. Where? Mr Krzysztof Paszyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u98	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In accordance with Article 2, the following paragraph is added: 184 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I would like to make a formal request for a break during which the Marshal of the Sejm, perhaps the Prime Minister, will provide more information on the letter from the European Commission, which has been sent and to the Prime Minister, and to your marshal, but also, as the reports indicate, to President Andrzej Duda, and concern the European Commission with all that has happened in the last two days with regard to the so-called. Repressive law in the field of Polish judges. I think it would be worth informing the High House, which is the subject of this letter (the bell), given... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...for a very good relationship between our government and Commission President Ursula von der Leyen.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u99	Thank you very much, sir. It's been a minute. Here you are, a formal motion, Mr Tomasz Trela, the Left Club. This issue you are talking about has been discussed today at the Bureau, and at the moment there is no way to vote on the request for a break. We'll do it in the voting block. You're welcome. How can it not be possible? Mr President, you are going to shout in the courtroom. Did you hear that? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u100	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, we heard here that those who prepared this bill were checking how these rules work in the European Union countries. And today they were exposed. The European Commission has sent letters to the Prime Minister, to the President, to the Marshal of the Sejm, to the Marshal of the Senate, in order to stop work on this shameful bill immediately. On behalf of the Left Club, I submit a formal request for a break and a call for the Seniors Convention to discuss once again the procedure for the procession of this project and to move it to the next session of the Sejm. Ladies and gentlemen! Do not compromise the High House and discredit the Polish State because you are starting to do it again. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u101	Thank you. This is the same conclusion we just heard. Mr Boris Budka is already in the Chamber. Just please, sir, not in the same case anymore.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u102	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's hard to base. only on media information. On the other hand, if it is true that the European Commission has sent a very strong letter to the most important bodies in Poland calling for this controversial law to be stopped, then we are in a completely different place than we were even this morning. The authors of this project ensured that the solutions contained in it were compatible with EU law, with the law that applies in other countries. Nothing more vicious. The European Commission clearly points out in its position that we are dealing with one great fraud. Therefore, on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I would ask the Marshal to provide Members with a copy of the European Commission's letter to the Marshal of the Sejm. To this end, I ask the marshal to order a recess so that there is time for the clubs. I ask you to take a break on behalf of the club (the bell) so that there is time to consider and read the letter from the European Commission. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u103	Mr President, the authorities of the Republic of Poland take sovereign decisions regarding the disclosure of the content of letters or the reply to letters. And that is their problem, not the Member's right now. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal, the vote against it. Please, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u104	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I know that the draft law on the system of common courts raises a lot of discussions, there are letters. I will not ask for a letter, I will ask for elementary decency in the process, to provide Members with the opinion of the Minister for Foreign Affairs that this project is compatible with European Union law. In the context of emerging comments and doubts, correct legislation is a prerequisite for all of us and you to take note of this opinion before taking decisions. All authorities state that European Union law has been violated. Let the Foreign Minister finally speak, that is his duty. All of us, ladies and gentlemen, in this House, are calling for this. I submit my motion to the hands of the marshal. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u105	Thank you very much. As you know, the opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is not mandatory. The Sejm has its own Sejm Analysis Office that does this. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] She's mandatory. Art. 42 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. Please, Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz with a formal proposal. You don't know the rules. You're resigning, aren't you? Mrs Wanda Nowicka with a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u106	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I make a formal request for a break and a call for the Seniors' Convention on the inclusion on the agenda of the item: clarification of the Minister of Culture and National Heritage on why more and more money is spent on so-called. public television and, in fact, regime television. Madame, this is not on the agenda, this is not a formal proposal. So far, expenditure has reached over PLN 1 billion. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Madam President, we are talking about something that is not on the agenda. [[The Vice Marshal turns on the microphone]] Now spending amounts to 2 billion, while there is no money for disabled people, there is no money for health care. When there is no money for women's rights organisations, there will always be money for propaganda television. And it's gonna take more and more to justify all the changes that... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] You're bringing it in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u107	Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Law on the Law on the System of General Courts, the Law on the Supreme Court and some other laws (prints no. 69 and 107). Mr. Marshal, there was a vote against it. But I don't anticipate votes against, it was a formal motion. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] The rules of procedure provide. I ask Mr Piotr Sak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Justice and Human Rights has imposed an obligation on me, but also the privilege of presenting a report on the work of the Committee on a procedated normative act. Shame! Let me therefore provide the relevant information in an essential and condensed manner. The Commission has been sitting since 3 p.m. 19.12 p.m. 5.14, that's over 10 hours. Over 100 amendments were tabled in the course of the work. The Commission has given a positive opinion on 22 amendments that refine the original bill. [[Joy, excitement in the courtroom, applause]] Ha, ha, ha! Yes, your amendments unfortunately ruined this bill and compromised it. [[Applause]] Disgraceful! According to the report, 80 minority proposals are prepared. Although there are more because they were reported individually, they were concentrated and cumulative because they were consumed. Such legislative biomass cannot be refined. The Commission recommends adopting a law which takes into account the positive amendments considered. 24 Members voted, 14 were in favour, 10 were against. And a technical issue. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: In point 33 of the report, there was a certain lapsus concerning Article. 107-A. You guys are one big lapsus. There was an obvious typographical error in the committee's report. The word "disciplinar" should be replaced by "disciplinar." Ladies and gentlemen, you are so gagging and living here. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] What? Hold on! I really wanted to focus, ladies and gentlemen, on a very technical report, but you are really giving me an asumpt for some personal reflection and observation. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] But you're the committee's rapporteur. You're not from reflection. This is not the time for personal reflection. Yeah, I'm fine. Ladies and gentlemen, today you are very passionately trying to rehabilitate yourself for your yesterday morning, for your absenteism, for refusing to do your parliamentary duties. [[Applause]] How many members of the PiS weren't there? Let's get to work. The seat of the Members shall be in the Parliament's Chamber. There's a rule of absenscarens, the absent loses. Unfortunately, today these feverish attempts and actions are really going to mask what you have led to. At your own request. Really think about what you're doing. More reflection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u109	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. Today, the Marshal agreed to a ten-minute speech at the Sejm Bureau meeting. My club's fine with it. Ten-minute statements, then. I'm opening a discussion. First on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, Mr Przemysław Czarnek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u110	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to reiterate on behalf of the Parliamentary Club the position of our club on the draft law amending the Law on the system of common courts, the Law on the Supreme Court and some other laws. First of all, I would like to express my great surprise, because we listened to a series of formal proposals and statements completely excluding ourselves for 10 minutes, possibly showing your total inability to interpret and, for example, to read the amendments that were made in writing during the committee meeting, as is normally done. After all, on the one hand, you said you couldn't work at such a rate that you didn't get a chance to read the bill, especially the amendments that were made. Suddenly we hear that the European Commission has sent a letter to the highest authorities of the Republic of Poland, in which it expresses concern about the draft and amendments. The Commission had a chance to read the draft and the amendments so deeply, and you didn't? [[Applause]] Read and work because you're paid by taxpayers. They're not paying you to sit down, they're paying you to read and analyze what the High House is doing. [[Applause]] The delusion itself came out of this place. Congratulations. They have TVs in Brussels, too. High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! [[Game in the O.R.]] Madame, you must remember this. The history of political and legal doctrines knows various mutations of what we call the rule of law, the rule of law. You don't know what it is. Each of these mutations is bad, each of these mutations weakens the rule of law. The most weakening, however, is the rule of law mutation that we call the state of judges. The State of Judges is precisely this State and this model you are seeking and which you have been seeking to introduce for the past three weeks with the help of obedient judges. Don't make it up. You're not gonna be a philosopher anyway. The state of judges is a state which ignores the principle of sovereignty of the nation, ignoring the sovereignty of the nation over all three authorities. You want your crooks. A State of Judges is a State in which judges decide what is right and what is not. And that's exactly what we've had in the last three weeks. Mr. and Mrs. PiS, this is your target. The judges have the right to state that there is no Disciplinary Chamber. We heard that last night, too. The judges have the right to determine who the judge is and who isn't. We heard about it last night, too. The question is, why this aberration and why this perverseness. Ladies and gentlemen! We did not initiate this rapid legislative process. It's the country you initiated. This country cut the veins of the Polish legal order and constitutional loading. [[Applause]] This wound is bleeding, and we're doing what we're supposed to do, which is why we're doing it at such a rate. We need to stick this patch on this wound because we can't let the Polish legal order bleed out. What do you want? You want to plant a bomb under the Polish constitutional order, referring to the constitution. Shame and shame. [[Applause]] Indeed, yesterday night and this morning, the Committee on Justice and Human Rights held its deliberations. They were incredibly informative. Very difficult, very tiring, but we are for society and none of us complains, except for some Members of the opposition. But it was a very informative session. We have seen one very important thing in these proceedings. Well, the problem is bigger than we thought. You want to get Poland out of the European Union. What are you impputing us with? Calm down. Well, you really believe, at least a large part of you, in the bullshit you're telling. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] You've created an alternate reality, and you're in it. You do not want to see the real reality that surrounds you, but the Polish society sees this reality. We have unprecedented support so far, huge support that we get from phone calls, text messages, emails. People demand that we stop breaking constitutional order and constitutional legal order in Poland. And that's what we're gonna do right now. [[Applause]] But who's calling? Banana? How, ladies and gentlemen, do you continue to repeat the foolishness that Poles do not believe about imaginary Polexite? You are the ones who want to get Poland out of the European Union. You're the ones who want to push us out of the European Union. [[Applause]] You're the ones who rat on the European Commission. You're the ones lying about Poland. You're the ones who lie about Polish society. We're not gonna let you do that. We will not be pushed out of the European Union. The phone call to Banas and it's gonna be okay. I didn't know stupidity could walk. Ladies and gentlemen! Why don't you have a little shame? You scare a few days before Christmas Poles with some imaginary system in which several tens of thousands or maybe several hundred thousand sentences legally handed down by legal judges in this country will be challenged. This is scaring the Poles. This is actually an attack on the rule of law. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, ladies and gentlemen, will lead to this bill being passed today, because this plaster for the wound you have done must be attached. We save the rule of law in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Decoration, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u112	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I understand that yesterday you were very thorough in how you function in this Parliament. You just don't understand. I'm gonna quote your friend, are we playing balls or not? I guess that's what you guys do all the time. Although I have some déjà vu here, as I look at you, because a few years ago you also told Poles how terrible it is and everything, you tried to block it all, and then it turned out that it was drinking water, photomontage, only the sunny Madeira is missing. And after all the propaganda you're using right now, you can see that you're back to square one, and that you're not able to understand one thing: Poles want to reform the courts, because Poles... About! ...they saw the script: 118-year-old person who recovered the building. Yeah, that's what your scenarios were. They see the scenario: a politician speaks, and then a judge who is about to rule on him. This judge is out of the question. Faggot? Your boss's friend? This judge is excluded from the profession because he is associated with a demonstration organized by a particular political environment. I understand that you've learned one name and you're going to keep saying it, but yesterday's committee deliberations showed one thing: you're just doing... Faggot and a couple of haters. ...a mockery of a serious project that is expected by Poles, a mockery of a project that... I've just heard from you, Mrs. Gasiuk-Pihowicz. Yesterday, you've been here since hours. 19 a few... Member. Member. ...missary, she screamed for hours. I'll tell you what, I'll quote you, your friend: No, Kamila, you're not here alone, no. And that's exactly what's happening everywhere... Bravo! ...in the plenary room and in the committee. [[Applause]] I understand you're the representative of the people who... you're supposed to be the person here, the face of a kind of opposing this scary, good bill. You just have to understand one thing: you defend judges who are politicized, you defend those who want to undermine decisions, the prerogative of the President, who closes the way with regard to who the judge is in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u113	Thank you. Mr Kamil Bortniczuk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u114	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Oh, yeah. It'll be remembered the most. ...you can make fun of the serious things we've all heard, we can get to know it on the Internet, but serious work... And you can't survive until the first one for the deputy prime minister's salary. ...for the sake of the Polish state requires that you do not do serious things to yourself, to adopt laws even when they are difficult, but are required... You're in parliament. ...because they must counteract the anarchy of Polish public life. And serious work in favour of the Polish State requires that amendments be tabled which improve those laws in real terms, which eliminate the risk of finding non-compliance with European law, which remove unnecessary regulations. Indeed, in the original draft there were regulations which referred to the fact that judges would be obliged to make, at least, statements on their activities on the Internet. We deleted those records. We have removed records that may be contrary to European Union law... Grace! ...we have added a preamble which clearly sets out the axiological basis behind the need to adopt this project. Because this project must be adopted so that the Polish state is stable. We cannot afford to destabilize the state. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights was sitting yesterday and today, largely thanks to you, thanks to your proposals which overlapped, were the same. You used time to the maximum, you argued in an absolutely repetitive way only to drag the work of the committee over time to tell Poles that the Members of the United Right work at night. We work nights if we have to. And now there's a need. I am very pleased that the Committee on Justice and Human Rights has accepted all the proposals of the Jarosław Gowin Agreement, and on behalf of the parliamentarians of the Jarosław Gowin Agreement, I declare my support for this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u115	Thank you very much. Now Mr Boris Budka has the floor... Mr. Marshal, there's still some corrections. We still have 30 seconds. 30 seconds, well, what to do... Please. In what mode?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u116	In such a way that we, the parliamentary club, have 30 seconds left. You could look at the clock. On behalf of the parliamentary club, Mr. Marshal, I make three amendments to this draft law as part of my second reading, mainly technical amendments. The essence of the first amendment is the use of words: the act and omission in a singular number instead of a plural number, the second amendment aims to refer to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs of the Supreme Court of the actions for the determination of the legality of the final ruling of the Supreme Court in order to undermine the legality of the act of the judge, and the third amendment aims at making provision also for applications for the designation of the court before which proceedings are to be brought, submitted pursuant to Article. 45 Code of Civil Procedure. At the same time, I attach a proposal to move to third reading without referring the project back to committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u117	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Mr Budek now has the floor on behalf of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u118	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will repeat until the end: there has been and there is no reform of the justice system. [[Applause]] For 4 years you have been cheating Polish people and Poles, claiming that anything you change for the better, but Poles see it. Exactly the same way you treated Polish health care, education system, higher education as well as the judiciary. You pretend to be great reformers, and you make one big chaos all over the place. You can't make court proceedings faster, you've de facto blocked the small prosecutor's proceedings, because prosecutors are afraid to make any resolutions just because they have the authority of the Minister of Justice, and now the chaos that you've brought to the National Courts Council, the Constitutional Court and the common courts, you're trying to turn into even more chaos. You lie to Poles and Poles, claiming that you are Europeans and understand what the European Community is all about, while you are really introducing into the Polish legal order solutions typical for totalitarian countries, where politicians can... Germany, France... ...punish the judges because they don't like their judgment. How do you work in practice? Well, in practice, the Minister of Justice can only cancel the judge's delegation because he didn't agree to the temporary arrest requested by the prosecutor. under the same minister. And that's what you're talking about. This is not about Poland, this is not about Poles, this is not about changing things for the better - this is about impunity. You just dream of creating from another institution what Marian Banas created both in his building and in the Supreme Auditorium. [[Applause]] The symbol of what you have turned the Polish state and the justice system into is the building of Banasia. And just because we're in Parliament, I'm gonna use the synonym, and I'm not gonna say the word you did to the justice system. [[Applause]] The impunity, impunity, impunity - this is the only purpose of your bill. You lie to Poles and Poles, claiming that these are European solutions... Seven charges... ...while the European Commission in a very tough position says clearly: please stop working on this shameful project, because Poland, Poles will lose European money. But you're really talking about polyxit. You know why? Because you guys hate any kind of control. You're genetically afraid of any independent institution. That is why you hate the European Commission so much, because this Commission has taken over the role and acts in the interests of Poles and Poles, while this government wants to subdue the muzzle of power to Poles and Poles. And that's the essence of this bill. [[Applause]] You promised a great reform, and you really ruined everything, even what worked well. You've brought justice to ruin just to pretend you're fixing it, and you're putting in a muzzle. After all, what you did with the Constitutional Tribunal is the best example of how your pseudoreforms work. You've completely blocked this organ's operation, and you've made a social discovery, as your president says - he cooks more dinners than he does in court, as someone said yesterday. [[Applause]] This is a real picture of the justice system. And now, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to assure you of one thing. We will not stop at what has now happened in the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. Yes? You're going to vote? In the Senate we will lead to the fact that Poles will know the truth - the truth about your project, the truth about the fact that you want to be unpunished. You'll be reporting in Brussels. You stole so much that the only thing you're afraid of right now is the D.A. You've got a KNF thing going on, [[Applause]] The GetBack scandal, the NBP scandal, the two towers, the Birgfelnner scandal. And you have the charges. You even took the poorest of the PCK, your former Member is accused. But you guys still want to be unpunished. Poles will not forget this bill. Poles will not forget that you are destroying the achievements of Polish freedom. Because you genetically hate freedom. [[Long-term applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u119	Ms Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, the Civic Coalition Club, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u120	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Messengers and Members of the PiS! You're building a pyramid of lawlessness, and this repressive bill is another layer of it. After this law, the government will be able to remove any judge under any pretext. The judges will be punished for the application of the Polish Constitution and EU treaties. And for them to read it with understanding... Stop this legal madness. Stop the work in line with the European Commission's call. Do not throw Poland out of the European Union. [[Applause]] High Izbo! It was the politicians of PiS who started the fire, which at the moment digests the legal system in Poland. And instead of putting it out in line with the recommendations of the EU Court, you're only watering it with gasoline, proposing a law on the disciplinary of judges. We have repeatedly warned against the fact that the changes that the current authority has been introducing for four years, limiting the independence of the judiciary, will cause legal chaos. And it's happening right in front of us, because of the politicians of PiS, and the bill you're proposing today is only making this legal chaos worse. Messengers and Members of the PiS! You're building a pyramid of lawlessness. But she's only gonna survive until you're in charge, and then she's gonna collapse. Only under the rubble of this pyramid of lawlessness there will be ordinary people. Unfortunately, PiS, destroying the judiciary, destroys the lives of ordinary people, destroys the capabilities of Polish companies. The judgments of the courts of the PiS, planted by the neo-KRS, will be worth as much as the waste paper. In time, they will simply be questioned in turns. Therefore, for people, for entrepreneurs such a sentence will simply be worthless. Such a judgment will only cause problems in the future. And it's all because of the PiS politicians. [[Applause]] High Izbo! My generation of cases where the D.A. is chasing an independent judge for the fact that he applies the law, he knows only from history, maybe from his parents' stories. I myself was born in the Polish People's Republic, but thanks to courage, heroism of people like Lech Walesa, Tadeusz Mazowiecki... [[Applause]] Bravo! ... Jacek Kuroń and many, many others, I was very fortunate to enter free Poland into adulthood. Thanks to hard work and determination of people like Leszek Balcerowicz and many, many others... It's a pistol. ...my generation has been given the chance to live in Poland, which is the richest in its history to date. [[Applause]] Thanks to people like Jerzy Buzek, Alexander Kwasniewski, Bronisław Geremek and many others... Cimoszewicz! ...we could become a strong and proud country in the European Union. [[Applause]] Bravo! But because of people like Andrzej Duda, Mr Zbigniew Ziobro, Mr Jarosław Kaczyński, we can lose all of this in the next few years. Land! We can lose everything that over a quarter of a century of Polish freedom has been built up by generations of people presenting a full range of views and sensitivity. They built not for themselves, they built for 38 million Poles and for subsequent generations. Destroying the independence of Polish courts, you destroy the rights and freedoms that were acquired after 1989. Destroying the independence of Polish courts, you destroy the conditions for further wealth of Poles and Poles. Destroying the independence of Polish courts, you destroy Poland's place and future in the European Union. By destroying the independence of Polish courts, you are simply destroying Poland. And you have no right to do that, no right. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u121	Mr Krzysztof Smishek, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u122	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, it's been a few hours since first reading, and we already have a committee report this morning... And a letter from the European Commission. ...we'll be pushing knees, fighting - whatever we call it - pendolino, this legislative process. The committee, which sat all night last night until the very morning, passed the Polish courts. Under the cover of the night, without the possibility for NGOs and the representative of the Ombudsman to speak. Today I would like to welcome Mr. Adam Bodnar, the Ombudsman, in our courtroom. [[Applause]] You didn't allow a public hearing, and this is a law that should be debated by a wide range of representatives of society, NGOs, as part of a public hearing. The rapporteur said that the amendments tabled yesterday at the committee's meeting had refined this magnificent project. Oh, yeah, they've refined on the same principle as they've refined suffering. You have to admit that's true. I wonder what you were afraid of, that we worked on this committee until 5:30 a.m. for a few hours. What were you afraid of? That people will see your primitive fortels that you're smuggling through this project? That society will know that you forbid Polish judges to rule on the basis of the Polish Constitution? Or are you afraid of the truth that you're planning an assassination attempt on the Supreme Court, and as a result of the new procedures you want to make the first president of the Supreme Court perhaps the party nominate of the Disciplinary Chamber, which is not even a judge, as the courts have recently ruled? This law is a simple, primitive legal basis, which is to be used by similar party cameras in authoritarian countries. It is there that the authority decides which judgment is lawful and which is just. Congratulations on your role models. I assure many of you that many of the opponents also from the previous system, fighting for citizens' right to a fair trial and fair judgment, are shocked to see that you are trying to take away this constitutional right from citizens. Shocked, unmixed, right? I am also convinced that Prof. Lech Kaczyński, who repeatedly stressed the highest value of the rule of law, would protest against your actions. Don't wipe your mouth. President. Calm down. PiS, by introducing such a recipe, does not worry about the rights of ordinary Poles. Some of these judgments may be... You can talk about Ladybug. From the president. It is President Lech Kaczyński that I respect and have used his scientific achievements many times, so please calm down, Mrs. Kaczynski. [[Applause]] You deprive citizens of their fundamental human rights, the right to an independent, impartial court and a fair judgment. What about Gawłowski? You're gonna turn the jury into a judgment-making machine under Nowogrodzka's dictation and on the basis of the PiS regulations. Or are you just trying to get the judges to switch to party uniforms? Why don't you just say it straight? I propose not to play in this House as a legislative process and simply cut out a few thousand cardboard figures of Jarosław Kaczyński, put them behind the judicial tables, and in Poland the effect will be the same. Enough of this empty-mouthed thing. It's a shame you didn't have the courage to present the bill before the election. It's a shame you didn't say that Piotrowicz and Pawłowicz would be at the Constitutional Court. You're just cowards who do whatever your general tells you to do. And Ladybug was to return to Poland. You are laying dynamite under this foundation of the state of law. Why are you doing this? I'll tell you. Because you're just scared. You're afraid of losing your power, you're afraid that your crooks will see the light of day, you're afraid of corpses in a closet like Banas or Chrzanowski. You're afraid that the courts could judge and convict your guys, as well as the guys from the parliamentary and government benches. You're just cowards. And this bill is supposed to be an insurance policy for your impunity. Not for long. If you think that the Polish judges will abandon their vows for fear of you and replace the judges' toga with the denims of the party apparatus, then you measure them with your own measure. That means you don't know the spirit of Polish judges. Thank you. [[Applause]] Weak. Who wrote this to you, Christopher?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u123	Mrs Anna Żukowska, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u124	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Law and Justice know very well that it caused a fire on the National Judicial Council and the Disciplinary Chamber. Now this fire that caused itself wants to cover the proposed law on changing the system of common courts, on the Supreme Court and other laws. It proposes that we really respect the choice of judges by this neo-KRS, the politicised KRS, the KRS, which has been appointed with the shortening of the term of office of the previous National Judicial Council, and wants to make such a deal - because it is in this law - that at the price of respect, the recognition that judges who have been elected by the Council of State are still judges, also want to recognise that those judges who are elected by the new KRS are also legally elected judges. That's not gonna be the deal. We won't vote for it, there's no such agreement. Each judge should be assessed individually in each case and his choice should also be able to be assessed individually. The Disciplinary Chamber - what Mr Smishek has already said - is also not a court. There should be no possibility that the first President of the Supreme Court will be elected from the composition of this Chamber, because de facto this is reduced to another, i.e. the smallest, quorum provided for by that law. Nor is there any agreement that a position such as that of the first President of the Supreme Court should function in the legal system. Because such a person would have the opportunity to preside over the Court of State, attend meetings of the Sejm, be a member of the KRS, and could also elect three members of the State Election Commission. The person who, I stress, does not act as the first President of the Supreme Court. Only in the Polish legal system would a completely unknown position appear. First President of the Supreme Court. Dear Marshal! Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left pursuant to Article. 45 I submit a motion to reject the draft law amending the Law on the System of General Courts, the Law on the Supreme Court and some other laws. In case of rejection of this proposal, I propose the following amendments at second reading to the report of the committee on the draft law amending the Law on the Law on the System of General Courts, the Law on the Supreme Court and some other laws, at the meeting of the Polish Sejm. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 1 (3) is added. 9c and Article 9c. 9d. I'm gonna read the same way we were forced to proceed with this bill at the committee meeting. All points. Paragraph 2. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 in point 29, inserted Article. 88a is replaced by the following: 88a. § 1. The judge shall be required to make a written statement of his education. The declaration referred to in paragraph 1 shall be made within 30 days of the date of entry into office of the Judge. Art. 107 § 1: For professional offences, including obvious and gross contempt for the law and the lack of dignity of the office, disciplinary offences, the judge shall be liable disciplinaryly to the competent court. § 1 of the same Article. 107: The Supreme Court judge shall be liable disciplinaryly for the professional misconduct and the failure of the judge's office to act before the court referred to in Article. 73. Paragraph 1 (5): For offences and disciplinary offences, the judges shall bear disciplinary responsibility before the disciplinary courts referred to in Article. 39a. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 5 in point 1 in Article. 44 Paragraph 2a added is replaced by the following: Appeals brought by the parties to the proceedings shall be recognised separately. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 6 in point 2 of Article 6 137 § 1 shall be replaced by the following: The prosecutor shall be liable in disciplinary proceedings before the competent court referred to in Article for professional misconduct, including the obvious gross insult of the law and the lack of dignity of the office. 145. Is it nice for the High House to listen to the amendments made in this way? Yeah, yeah. I bring them in on behalf of the club (the bell) because that's how it was handled at the committee meeting. Art. 103a § 1: The prosecutor is required to make a written statement of his education. The statement referred to in paragraph 1... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] I submit these two applications to your marshal on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u125	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Club of the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. You're welcome, sir. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u126	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 our reflections on the subject - I am not afraid to use this phrase - so-called. Repressive law. Oppressive. To begin with, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the PiS, you have succeeded... Ha, ha, Mr. Messengers. You have managed to impress many Poles in Poland, but I see that this impression is equally lightning outside Poland. I think you should all get together, we should all start to fear the effects of this impression. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, After a 10-hour battle - I will not mention the style, because many Poles watched this meeting of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights - at first reading, unfortunately in an old and bad style, an even worse draft of the Repressive Act was adopted compared to its original sound. Not so long ago - it is worth recalling - in his exposé Prime Minister Morawiecki has repeatedly mentioned the coming normality, and this lawmaking unfortunately has little to do with this normality. [[Applause]] You have said very often in your previous term and before the elections that you will be legislative healers. But what all of Poland saw yesterday is rather legislative charlatanism. 'Cause you can't call it anything else. [[Applause]] President Peterovich is no longer in the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. But yesterday it was visible in the lens that the ghost of President Peterovich is still hovering over the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. He's alive. So is the ghost of Marshal Gucwa. It's a mascara, not a ghost. And unfortunately it falls on many of these members so far that yesterday also all of Poland heard suggestions from one of the Members of the committee suggesting that why pass the amendments to all its members. These are the standards that go below the bottom level. I think that, unfortunately, also reflects the image of this House and the majority that dominates this House today. You're talking about the need for justice reform. Mr Decoration has been thundering here recently that Poles want good changes, so how dare we interfere with these good changes. Aren't you on duty? Mr. Ornamental! I ask today, after more than 4 years of supposed fulfillment of the expectations of Poles and Poles, what do Poles have after your reforms? Do they have longer deadlines in court? They do. I'm sure they do. Do they have more legal costs? They do, they do. They do. That's what everybody's complaining about. But they'll have something even worse. They will be. They will have great uncertainty about law and judicial decisions. Political convictions. A little statistics on your reforms, which you so often like to recall. 2018 - glory, your flagship project - the Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs, which was supposed to be a prescription for any injustice in the justice system. How was she? She was so diligent that in 2018 she considered only 28% of the cases that had affected her. Let's move on. Another flagship idea in the framework of the reform of the justice system according to the PiS - Disciplinary Chamber. She was so praised by the PiS, and she was even better, because in 2018 - attention - she considered only 19% of the cases that had affected her. To make it interesting, I will also say that these two chambers are the least placed in cases compared to the other chambers operating in the Supreme Court. So what's it like? It seems to me, Mr Decoration, Minister, honourable representatives of the United Right Club, that Poles today are more looking forward to a disciplinary, repressive law concerning Mr Banasi. [[Applause]] This is extremely urgent and expected today. And as for the justice system... Madame, please take it easy, because such nerves are harmful to your health. Take it easy. Jarosław, I can't do anything. You're screaming terribly. You're not a gentleman, a little respect. When it comes to justice, it is worth considering, High Izbo, whether it would really be worth sitting at a round table and reviewing both what is good and what is bad. The round table was once in history. Mr Telus, live in the future, not in the past. [[Applause]] It's the communists who always say that. It is worth to sit at a round table, as proposed by the Coalition of Poland, together with legal authorities, organizations which unite the victims of justice and representatives of all political circles - we are still open to them - and think about what needs to be done to save Poles many problems. Of course, today most of the Seym says that there are no problems and there will be no problems, but experts disagree. We today, acting in the same way as in Parliament, are unfortunately moving towards a distortion of legal certainty in Poland. I wouldn't want a single mother who got alimony sentence to sleep at night and shivering, wondering if a father who isn't willing to pay those alimony bills would go to a law firm that would undermine that sentence because he was handed down by a judge appointed under the faultyly appointed National Judicial Council. I wouldn't want that, and I don't think most of you would either. ... Luxembourg... I wouldn't want Poles to get a decision, e.g. with the IRS regarding their taxes... This bill... ...trembling to see if anybody's gonna question that in a minute. Will Poles, who are quite often getting settlements on damages cases today, not have to pay compensation in a moment? I fear that the deepening of legal chaos, which is taking place today, will unfortunately lead to this. We wouldn't want that. No, that's what they're leading to... Be brave. Dear Member, isn't it better not to lose energy today for such thoughtless, controversial projects that do not bring glory either in the country or beyond its borders, to use it to renegotiate the bill on judges of peace, which can't wait for it to show up here? [[Applause]] Isn't it better to reflect on the issue of the National Judicial Council and open it to citizens? Maybe part of the KRS should be elected by the general public. This will increase the level of confidence in this body. Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 sees no possibility - despite changes that did nothing good - to support this law. We are in favour of rejecting it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u127	Mr Krystian Kaminski, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u128	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission completed its work at 3 p.m. Five in the morning. Who had time to read the amendments in such an important bill? The European Commission. We know very well that no one, but it doesn't matter to you from the PiS naturally. The proposed amendments to the Act are just another installment of the struggle for influence between the ruling party and the judiciary. Contrary to what the Law and Justice say, there is no easy solution to this situation today. However, contrary to what the total opposition is saying, today there is no agreement to continue in such an inefficient judicial system where ordinary citizens have no sense of justice and entrepreneurs have to wait for years to come to judgment. We all see that a thorough systemic reform is needed today to improve our courts in order to make them citizen-friendly. The courts should first of all be swift and fair. The judges must be freed from non-material, bureaucratic tasks. That is why as a Confederation we propose parametrization of courts, assigning assistants permanently to each judge, electronic circulation of documents, and ultimately - a process in 1 month. These are the reforms that Poles are waiting for. However, in order to resolve the current judicial crisis we are witnessing, we need systemic solutions. Therefore, the Confederation will also propose systemic changes that intersect personal conflicts. We must all take a step backwards and start a debate on constitutional resett, a constitutional change that will solve this chaos caused both by the Civic Platform and by Law and Justice. [[Applause]] It is also worth considering the possibility of allowing a jury in special cases to reflect a sense of social harm, so that the harshness of a judgment can reflect a sense of social harm. In our opinion, it is time to start a broad debate on the Polish judiciary. Otherwise, such shovings, which we are witnessing, will accompany us for a long time. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u129	Now Mr Robert Winnicki, also near the Confederation, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u130	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, it is important to make it clear to the European Commission: Warn from Polish lawmaking, from what the Sejm of the Republic of Poland does. [[Applause]] You have no right to interfere in our internal debate. You have no right to dictate from Brussels how the Polish judiciary, Polish law, will look like. What are you guys in for then? And it must be very clear today from this platform. And that's what the Confederation says. [[Applause]] The second point is what the Polish judiciary looks like, what it looked like in 2015, what it looked like before. Unfortunately, the situation there is simply boggy. This is a mess of significant injustices, ongoing trials, inefficiency, harming judgments. There is something that some of the judges, of course, speak of - that they are an extraordinary caste. There is no de facto real division of power so that judicial authority is controlled in any way. It's all true. The problem is that instead of draining it for 4 years, instead of draining the swamp of the Polish judicial system for 4 years, you let your pipe in and you think that if you add a little bit of each other, it will dry up. Well, no, it won't dry, it stinks even more. And that's the situation we're colliding with today, we're measuring. The patch that Mr Czarnek was talking about. You make a patch on the patch, four years patching, and it's like the situation, the stuff you're patching, it doesn't look better. It's getting worse, getting less and less efficient. Why? The reason is very simple. You have approached the topic not from the side of system reforms, structural reforms, but from staff reforms. A good system pulls up bad officers or workers who work in it. In a bad system, letting even a large number of people in there, who you don't have too many people, to heal this judicial system, doesn't cause him to heal. That's the situation. And you can multiply these reforms even more 500, and it can go on. You won't be able to heal the system for decades. You are completely incompetent, and therefore the Confederation will not support this bill. [[Applause]] Shame! No consequences, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u131	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. We are now moving on to the next elements of this debate. You have the floor of the Ombudsman Adam Bodnar. [[Applause]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u132	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, Dear Members and honourable Members, As ombudsman, I have a duty to uphold the rights and freedoms of man and citizen. The right to court, and in particular the right to an independent court, is one of the rights set out in the Constitution in Article. 45 and in international agreements which Poland has ratified. For various reasons and by various legal means, the right to an independent court has been challenged in Poland for at least 4 years. Not 30? During this time, we have seen numerous criticisms from UN bodies, the Council of Europe, the OSCE and the European Union as a country. Four times on the various reforms that concern our judiciary, the Court of Justice of the European Union has spoken recently on 19 November 2019. The European Commission's request for a disciplinary mechanism for judges is currently under way. There are also some preliminary questions raised by Polish courts. Concern about the situation in Poland as regards the judiciary is expressed by citizens as part of protests on the streets, non-governmental organizations, deans of the law departments, legal authorities, and all those who are at the heart of compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Not all of them. In view of these threats to the legal system, I believe that we should expect action to be taken to remedy the legal situation. We should expect initiatives, especially legislative ones, which will lead Poland to the rule of law, to respect the Constitution of the Republic of Poland and to European law. We should expect action taken in full responsibility for constitutional order. Unfortunately, instead, we see repression against judges, involving the initiation of investigations and disciplinary proceedings, the dismissal of judges' delegations or the suspension of them in the performance of their duties. We also observe the discredit of representatives of the judicial authority by representatives of other authorities. Finally, we are watching a debate on a law that, in my opinion, will deepen the state of the rule of law crisis. I would like to stress that the rule of law crisis is not neutral for citizens and for the economy. Any distortion as regards the guarantees of the right to an independent court will affect the respect of the principle of mutual trust as regards the functioning of the judicial systems of the Member States of the European Union. The lack of a solution, the resolution of the current crisis will mean the lack of recognition of judgments of Polish courts by courts of other Member States, as well as the lack of cooperation with Polish courts. This will affect the activities of our courts in the context of criminal, family and civil matters, including in the context of investment protection. We know very well that the bill under review has many flaws. I gave a comprehensive opinion on it on Wednesday. The Supreme Court, as well as the Office for Sejm Analysis, also presented a critical opinion. In my opinion, the amendments made at night do not fix the laws, which makes the situation even worse. I would like to stress that I have the impression that some of them were not even consulted with interested parties at all, because this is difficult to expect between hours. 22 a.m. Five in the morning. For example, the appointment of an extraordinary disciplinary officer for administrative courts. He is to be appointed by the President. Also, the President's right to indicate the person holding the meeting of the General Assembly of the Supreme Court or the person acting as the first President of the Supreme Court. I feel like... At least I haven't seen a document that would indicate consultation of these amendments with the President's Office or with the administrative courts. Unfortunately, for a few years now, we have been observing this procedure for lawmaking. First, there is a parliamentary project that avoids the stage of public consultation, then there is a quick procedure for the committee's work, for submitting amendments in the framework of this work, for lack of proper discussion, for great haste. On the other hand, the result is that, on the basis of this law, which is being examined, the powers of the two Supreme Court chambers are significantly increased: the Disciplinary Chamber and the Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs of the Supreme Court. It was these two chambers that were created and filled in 2018 by the President of the Republic of Poland on the basis of recommendations given by the National Court of Justice in a new composition, and it is with these chambers that serious reservations can be raised in the light of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 19 November this year, as well as the Supreme Court judgment of 5 December this year in the case of Judge Andrzej Cuba. So you can ask yourself: What are the actual intentions of the projectors? Why are these two chambers reinforced with new competences? Why should the Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs have the right to review other Supreme Court judgments that would concern the cast of courts? Is this gonna be another chamber that's gonna become a superior judge of the other Supreme Court chambers? I would like to stress that the law introduces negative clauses that do not allow verification of whether the authority is a court or whether the person is a judge. In fact, the proposal seeks to exclude from judicial review the legality of the appointment and operation of judicial authorities, as well as the legality of the appointment to serve as a judge. In my opinion, the aim is to prevent courts from directly applying both the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the judgments of the Supreme Court, which has already been delivered on 5 December, as well as those which are planned following the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union and which are due to be delivered in January 2020. On the other hand, I would like to stress that, as far as I can remember, judges have had the autonomous possibility of verifying judges' compositions. At one time, there was a situation where judges were incorrectly sent to the courts by the Vice-Ministers of Justice and this was subject to verification. There were also situations when they ruled not in these courts, what they should have, wrongly set their jurisdiction. There's been a problem with the assailants' judicial activities. The point is that verification of warehouses is something obvious and natural. Every judge should be able to do so, and the law will de facto exclude this possibility and thus embarrass citizens in the exercise of their rights. Citizens will not even be able to ask for verification of their compositions, since they will know that for this reason they will be threatened with disciplinary responsibility if they take any decisions contrary to the intention of the legislator. Therefore, in order to address the immediate problem of judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union and of the Supreme Court, judicial procedures are de facto being devastated. I would also like to point out that such a solution is aimed at the omission of constitutional standards and European standards, and is also aiming to overlook the standards resulting from the European Convention on Human Rights. Moreover, as I mentioned, this is confirmed by the extension and tightening of the disciplinary responsibility of the judges proposed by the designers. In this context, the provisions of the Act relating to freedom of expression and freedom of association of judges are very dangerous. It is clear to me that judges cannot engage in public activities that cannot be reconciled with the dignity of the judge's office. That's what the constitution's talking about. Of course, judges should not comment on topics such as government social programmes, defence, foreign policy, education system. And if they are already speaking, then only when they are informed of the present case which concerns them, and when, in a different way than by judgment, they cannot comment. But what else is to speak about the essence of your profession and the independence of the judiciary, [[Applause]] because judges have the right not only, but also the duty to speak about matters concerning the judicial system, the independence of the courts, the independence of the judges. Why? It's a duty to apply... Because they're specialists. This is why they were educated to speak on this subject because they understand how the legal system works, but also to sometimes defend themselves against attempts to limit their status by representatives of other authorities. This is not politics, this is not a public activity that is incompatible with the dignity of the office. This is an activity that serves the defence of civil rights and, in particular, the right to an independent court expressed in the Constitution. [[Applause]] The judge shouldn't be on the street. Dear Marshal, Dear Messengers, Dear Members, In the Act we will find a number of different solutions, which are new, which could not even be analysed during these hours from the hour. 5 a.m. Such things, for example. as changes in the modalities of the waiver of immunity and the powers of the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court. I keep wondering what art is for. 8 a law, which may allow for the approval of different situations, when the judgments were issued by warehouses not fully corresponding to the existing laws. Probably over time, we'll find out what's really still in this bill. Of course, as an ombudsman, I will also examine the proposal further in the context of the amendments that have been tabled. On the other hand, at this stage, I believe that the draft law violates the fundamental law, violates the fundamental principles of the legal order. In my opinion, the adoption of the project in its proposed form will in fact question Poland's participation in the legal dimension of the European Union and in the Council of Europe. [[Applause]] In the end, the Polish courts and Polish judges will be subject to the control of the authorities of the legislative and executive authorities and, most importantly, will drastically reduce the level of judicial protection of the rights of individuals. I believe that the adoption of this law is the way to legal polexit - the exit of Poland from the European Union in respect of respect for fundamental rules concerning the rule of law, the excavation of our membership from the essence of building a legal system based on the principle of cooperation, mutual trust and respect for similar standards concerning the rule of law. Thank you. Bravo! [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u133	The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, Mr Marcin Warchoł, will now speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u134	Dear Marshal, Mr. Spokesman! Minister! High Izbo! In 2 weeks, the Supreme Court waived immunity by agreeing to apply a temporary arrest against a Warsaw judge suspected of accepting bribes from one of the syndicates. Faggot? In two weeks. Names. What about Banas? Earlier, we had a year and a half while we were waiting to waive immunity in the case of a judge suspected of stealing a flash drive. It's a good change. In the case of the theft of the drill also a year and a half. Where have you been? For seven months, the judge from the drill ruled, passed a dozen judgments. Banana! Banana! Mrs. Kamila, you're not alone here. These judgments should, of course, be heard today. Mrs Gasiuk, once again I warn you. You're screaming again. This isn't a vegetable store, it's a parliament, ma'am. [[Applause]] But we're asking about Banasi... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: That's the difference. This is the difference in work, the quality of the Disciplinary Chamber in relation to what was before the reform. Is that what you're afraid of? You're afraid of good, quick sentences. Yes, sir. You're afraid of hearing on day one about getting a judge kicked out of office. You are afraid of the truth about the Polish justice system. I'm afraid for my future. You guys are embarrassed. The Emergency Audit Chamber, the second of the Chambers, which has been mentioned by your Ombudsman here today, repeals unfair sentences. The lady who fell victim to the loan shark, after taking out a loan of 15,000, had to pay back over a million after one year, 730% of it was off-limits. Thanks to the Attorney General, the newly appointed Chamber has just lifted this unfair sentence. Bravo! Where's the law in these cases? Yes, sir. Mr. Spokesman, how many emergency complaints have you brought to the emergency control room, what are your successes? [[Applause]] Why don't you tell all our citizens how you defended civil rights in these cases to the emergency control room? [[Applause]] Read the report. Bravo! The reform works and will be improved. Therefore, the scope of action of the Disciplinary Board and the Emergency Audit Chamber should be extended. The effects are visible to the naked eye. I also have one question for Mrs. Jourová. Commissioner, where you have been in a situation where we have been dealing with such irregularities. Where were you when you were waiting years for immunity... She's not here. She's not here. You're gonna look for... She's Polish... Mr Nitras... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: ...when they waited years to expel judges for not official crime, but common crimes, suspects, as in those cases I'm talking about right now. [[Game in the O.R.]] I have a favor to ask. Maybe we can compare the Polish system to the Czech system. In the system of Czech judges, the President shall appoint without the judicial council, at the request of the Minister of Justice, with the approval of the Government. Judges shall be appointed without the participation of the judicial board. It is not the judges who judge, as it is in Poland. I stress: there is no judicial council. Government participation, president's involvement closes the whole case. Then maybe we should ask Commissioner Jourova to give us guidance on how to change our system towards the Czech system. What's it like in the Czech system? Let's take a look at disciplinary action. The Minister of Justice shall initiate disciplinary proceedings without the participation of judges. In our system, judges still accuse judges, judges still judge judges after all. Judgment of the TSUE. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been so much talk about this, but I would like to make it clear. The President's decisions on the appointment of judges shall not be subject to judicial review. This follows directly from paragraph 145 of the judgment of the TSUE. Why are you lying to Poles? Why are you telling them that there's something in this sentence that isn't there? Why do you want our citizens to be second-class citizens in the European Union? What are worse than the Czechs, Germans who don't have a judicial board? Let me remind you that in Germany, politicians elect judges of the Supreme Court, 32 politicians: 16 MEPs to the Bundestag, 16 ministers - judges to the Supreme Court are appointed without the participation of judges. You don't understand. What are Poles worse than the Czechs or Germans? Why doesn't anyone talk about exits in the Czech Republic or Germany? You have complexes, that's probably after working with Piebiak. I have another quote for you. Is that a quote from Banasia? According to Art. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Union shall respect the national identity of its Member States. Where's that quote coming from? From our bill? Is that a polyxit? No, this is the text of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. [[Applause]] This was the 2011 judgment, which was repeated. Previously, such a judgment was delivered in 2010, 2011. Two judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union. I suggest you get to know them. Why don't you tell the Poles about this? Why do you not say that among the fundamental values of the Union are also the sovereignty and freedom of individual Member States, that preserving national identity is one of the characteristics of the European Union's countries, as even the Court of Justice emphasises? Why are you lying to reality and condemning our compatriots to inferiority towards Germans, Czechs or other Europeans? [[Applause]] It can't be agreed to. And now the second quote. Let me use the second quote: According to Art. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2 of the Treaty, the Union respects the national identity of its Member States, which is inextricably linked to their fundamental political and constitutional structures. Constitutional courts of many countries have already spoken about constitutional identity and sovereignty, including the Constitutional Tribunal. The Court of Justice refers in its case law to the need to respect the constitutional identity and national identity of the individual Member States. Who said that? This is what your idol said - Mr Andrzej Rzepliński - was included in the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 16 November 2011. [[Applause]] Why don't you listen to your expert? It's about the verdict of the tribunal that decided the case. Moreover, the Court of Justice was then constituted as a court of last words in cases of possible disputes with the Court of Justice of the European Union. Even then, the professor assumed that such a conflict could occur. I stress: The above is taken into account, i.e. that such a conflict may occur, so the Constitutional Tribunal has committed itself to such an understanding of its position that, in matters of fundamental importance, it will retain the position of the court of the last word in relation to the Polish Constitution. What happened over the years that the Professor changed his mind today, and you're presenting a completely opposite position? You don't respect the Constitution. But do you understand that as far as the Constitution is concerned, not the laws? The ruling on the basis of that judgment respects the Constitution. You don't respect the Constitution. I ask you very much to respect the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union, respect the Constitution and not mislead our fellow countrymen on these issues. [[Applause]] The reform will continue, whether you like it or not, whether this is what the extraordinary caste, which itself has called itself, is a narrow group of judges... But it was you who had this caste on WhatsAppa... ...though mostly judges work hard, fairly, and want fair, efficient courts. The reform will continue because our countrymen expect us to do so and give us a democratic mandate to carry out this reform. The courts must be fair and efficient. In most Member States of the European Union there are far more judges than in our country: in France by 30%, in Spain by half, in England and Wales by more than five times. Spending on the judiciary. In our country we have three times more money in the state budget than in Italy, eight times more than in England and Wales and eight times more than in the Netherlands. We are at the forefront of the European Union's spending. The earnings of the novice judge in our country are 2.1 of the national average, while in Germany - 0,9, in France - 1,1, in Sweden - 1,3 . The average pension of a retired judge is over 10,000. PLN, while, as we know, average pensions are over 2 000. zł. We could expect great efficiency from our courts because of such expenses. Unfortunately, it's not. Here information is a little more pessimistic and negative. According to the Doing Business report, the waiting time for a civil judgment is almost 700 days, which is twice as long as in France, Austria, but also twice as long as e.g. in Latvia, close to us. We've fallen the most in this report in the last three years. In those areas where we have undertaken reform, things are moving faster. I can boast here: criminal cases are moving faster, social security cases, labour laws are already being handled more quickly, family cases are being resolved more quickly. That's not true! What are you saying? These aspects, which are covered by our reform, show that Poles are waiting for a shorter sentence. They're already successful. Give me the details. The reform will continue. Fair and efficient courts are what we promised in the election campaign, and we will keep our word. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u135	Thank you. Mr Sebastian Kaleta now has the floor of the State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. 15 minutes again? Another loser's gonna take our time.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u136	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! In recent days there have been scaring Poles that the judgment of the Court of Justice and the judgment of the Supreme Court may result in the annulment of decisions relevant to Poles. Of course, we talk a lot about the fact that this logic leads to the fact that every ruling given in the last 30 years... Start like this: when I was working with Piebiak... ...it could be challenged, and that's why this bill is very much needed. However, such fear is not the first in the case of total opposition, because unfortunately this totality is still close to you. We all remember the storm started 2 years ago, when also due to your alarms, that supposedly judges are being closed in Poland, during meetings with representatives of the ministries of justice of other countries we had to answer questions, whether it is true that in Poland judges are locked up in prisons for political views. You have spread such lies in Europe and we have consistently had to straighten out all these lies. In connection with one of these lies, the Irish court asked the Court of Justice whether Poland was sufficiently a state guaranteeing the principle of independence of the courts, the independence of the judiciary, that it could execute European arrest warrants. The Court of Justice replied that the Court of Justice of the Union State may verify that there are guarantees for persons sought for a fair trial. And what happened? You threatened that dangerous criminals would not be drawn to Poland to the conclusions of the European arrest warrant. Guess how many wanted were not issued to Poland after this sentence due to alleged violations of judicial independence in Poland. Zero. All applications in accordance with the rules have been completed. In 2018, 1148 European arrest warrants were executed. In several cases, European courts have barely doubted that there is a problem with the judiciary in Poland. Exactly. As a result of information obtained from Polish courts, these doubts were resolved and sought. Ba, also in the famous Irish case. In the end, it was decided that the wanted one was going to Poland. You scared me. No one's fooled with that fear, fortunately, because there was no threat. There is also no such threat now, because all we do is respond to very dangerous, anarchic Polish legal order, behavior of some judges. On the other hand, it is disturbing that you have moved the scale of your narrative, because over the last four years you have been saying: Constitution, Constitution, accusing us of breaking it. At the same time, when it comes to discussing the key prerogatives indicated directly in the Constitution, which are not subject to judicial review, which is the President's prerogative to appoint a judge, it already interferes with the constitution. EU law is already higher, already imaginary competences, which the European Union's bodies have not acquired as a result of the Treaties, are an oracle for you. The Constitution is still important. 186. Just read it with understanding. I will remind you of a number of judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal, which spoke about the relationship between Polish and constitutional law and the EU. Eight, it's a short text. You can read it. It was delivered in its judgment of 11 May 2005. Marek Safjan, Ewa Łętowska, Jerzy Stępień, Mirosław Wyrzykowski, Bohdan Zdziennicki, your authorities, were ruling in the composition. You can ask. Let's read it. With you, Minister Ziobro is an authority. 3+ in criminal law - Minister. The Constitution therefore remains - in relation to the EU Treaty, accession - because of its special power, the law of the highest Republic of Poland in relation to all binding international agreements of the Republic of Poland. The Constitution is the highest. By virtue of the Article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 the Constitution of primacy of legal force shall enjoy in the territory of the Republic of Poland the primacy of validity and application. What about the conflict with the laws? So no provision of the EU Treaty, however you would like the EU Commissioner to decide or the Court cannot derogate the President's prerogatives. [[Applause]] Have you signed the Treaty of Lisbon? The issue of the relationship of the Polish EU order to the national constitutional order returned to the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon. The Constitutional Tribunal has also spoken. He stated in his judgment of 24 November 2010, referring to the case-law of the German Constitutional Court, also concerning the Treaty of Lisbon, that the German Court indicated that a Member State could find non-compliance with its own constitution of an act of Union law, while maintaining the right to the last words. This interpretation is very clear. In any matter affecting the constitutional order, the sovereignty of the State and the internal constitutional organisation decide how to interpret relations with the European Union. [[Applause]] The Polish Court noted this view expressed in the judgments of many constitutional tribunals of the Member States in determining this competence relationship. Other Member States are not ashamed of their sovereignty, and as far as you are concerned today, unfortunately, it seems that you would like to renounce it for the particular interests of blocking judicial reform. [[Applause]] That's right. It's been less than a year. The Constitutional Tribunal no longer deals with the treaties but with the secondary law of the European Union. Not the law that comes from the agreement, but already created in the European Parliament, in the Council, in the Commission. In this subsequent proceedings, from 2011, Mr Rzepliński, in both cases, because in the previous Mr Rzepliński ruled, you may ask, the Court found that the courts of the Member States having a constitutional function... I'm sorry, it's a German sentence in this case. In view of the above, it must be concluded that also in view of the content of the Article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Constitutional Tribunal is obliged to understand its position in such a way as to preserve the position of the court of the last word in relation to the Polish Constitution in fundamental matters with a systemic dimension. [[Applause]] Bravo! It is clear from this case law that any coincidence of competence or in the perception of competence between a Member State, in this case Poland, and the European Union is ultimately in the Constitutional Court. Not in the Olsztyn District Court, not in the Supreme Court, but in the Constitutional Court. [[Applause]] Just? Only. Bravo! Long live the Constitution! This is a constitution, ladies and gentlemen. You're lying... Which is important... I don't see Mr. Schetin in the O.R. I hope he gets to the vote in time. He won't repeat the mistakes of his colleagues yesterday. The president wasn't at the vote. You weren't there. However, in this proceeding, from which I quoted, the position was taken by the Marshal of the Sejm and then by Mr Grzegorz Schetyn. It can be read that, according to the Sejm, the review of the Constitutional Tribunal's acts of EU subsidiary law in cases initiated by a constitutional complaint is admissible. I would remind you that the European Union's derivative law is lower than the Treaties, and in the matter we are discussing, you are referring directly to the Treaties, which is a tribunal that can examine even lower EU law. It's been a few years. The issue of your complaints about Polish courts to the European Union has begun. But in the meantime, we also say: hola, hola. In Germany, politicians choose judges. They're canceling? And the court in Wiesbaden asked the Court of Justice of the European Union: the High Court appointed me Minister of Justice. I don't know if I'm independent because I've been called by a politician. What did they say? This case is at the Court of Justice of the European Union and is, surprisingly, not considered. The Court did not agree to link the case with the Polish case. That's interesting. However, the Constitutional Court of Germany, in one of the cases which concerned relations between Germany and the European Union, commented on relations with the Union in the field of judicial organisation in this way: If the Court of Justice had exceeded the specified limit of action of the Court... However, the necessary freedom in assigning the tasks set out in Article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Paragraph 1 (2) of the Treaty ends when the interpretation of the Treaties is no longer understood and is therefore objectively arbitrary. If the Court of Justice had crossed that line, the action of the Court would have already been covered by the Article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 paragraph 2 and the judgment of the Court of Justice concerning Germany would not contain a minimum level of democratic legitimacy. Is someone yelling gerexit? No. Do you know why? Because the Germans respect their sovereignty. That is why the Germans know where they have transferred their competences to the Union and where the border is. What about us? Why don't you take an example of them? Where the Court of Justice no longer has the right to pronounce or to pronounce it has no legal force. Shame on you, that's all. You'd be ashamed. And according to you, whatever comes from Brussels is critical to the government, to the parliamentary majority, it's sacred as the Bible. You are Polish Members, not some... Unfortunately, it's not. [[Applause]] This is the case law issued by your legal authorities, by the people you've been walking with around here from the seat of the Civic Platform party. You have a duty to keep an eye on Poland, not Brussels. I think a few of these people might have been noticed. It's a provincial thinking, I'm afraid. Leave the coalition alone. But on the basis of other thinking, we act, and that's why we calmly approach, and we respond to any substantive accusations. In the last word, I'd like to refer to... I thank you for the presence of your ombudsman and the opportunity to discuss important matters for the Polish justice system, because you raised a very important issue. He'll have the right to a replica. Of course. He raised the issue of the apoliticity of judges. He pointed out that when it comes to government policy or important social matters, judges should either not speak or should remain far-reaching abstinence. In this case, how to comment on the position of Iustitia's Association of Judges, which supported the protest of teachers, issued positions, messages. After all, as far as I know, the teacher's protest was not about the right to a teacher's court, but about remuneration, which is a matter entirely unrelated to the justice system. That's what I'm talking about. Why did they get involved in politics? If they were making more money, you wouldn't be talking that kind of crap right now. And yet, the judges had no problem with the dispute, which was also partly turned into a very hot political dispute, to speak decisively. Marked. Second case, last election campaign. Here, too, the Association of Justices Iustitia, accidentally, one week before the vote, placed a series of spots on the Internet as part of a campaign threatening the alleged violation of the freedom of the courts. After the election, there were no new spots, just before the election it didn't come together so beautifully with the electoral calendar. I dare say it's random, just like press conferences. In the morning, the Civic Platform announces a draft law on the National Court Register, and at noon before the Ministry of Justice, judges propose the same draft. I'm sure it's clean. [[Applause]] Have you heard of the Polish National Foundation? And yet an important issue of disciplinary proceedings and the Ombudsman's response to a potential violation of the principle of judicial independence. Mr Juszczyszyn responded very strongly on the case of Judge Juszczyszyn, who we know that in an unprecedented manner he has usurped the powers which no general court judge has. But the spokesperson has exercised his authority to react. That's why I'd like to ask you a question. A few months ago, in the Supreme Court, Professor Kamil Zaradkiewicz addressed questions to the Constitutional Tribunal concerning the nature of the appointment of judges who were appointed by the non-constitutional KRS acting in 2000 and 2018. He asked: "What happened in the Supreme Court? The first President of the Supreme Court, Professor Małgorzata Gersdorf, has ordered the initiation of disciplinary proceedings which are currently under way. Disgraceful! What do you say? So what? I would like to ask your spokesman if you have responded to the unprecedented attack by Professor Margaret Gersdorf in the area of... Minister, we're not discussing with Mr. Civil Rights Attorney right now, we're just... Bravo! Well done, Marshal! The Minister simply likes the sound of his voice, it stimulates him. He likes the truth as opposed to... The Minister also likes... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Sebastian Kalet: Thank you, Marshal. I made a point, and it seems that the question is obvious. Thank you very much and, of course, we support this bill. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Some Members chant: Constitution! Constitution! Constitution! Banana! Banana!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u137	The discussion is closed. In the discussion, a proposal was made to move to third reading without referring the draft law back to the committee, after serving the Members with a summary of the amendments tabled. It's like Peterovich screaming in front of the Sejm. Crystal. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. Gawłowski and his seven charges. Objection! Objection, I hear. We will proceed to the vote in the voting block. Member with a formal request.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u138	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The two speeches by Minister Warchoł and Minister Kaleta could have been taken seriously if it had not been for Mr. Marshal of the Senate Prof. Tomasz Grodzki had made public a letter to the Marshal of the Sejm, to Mrs. Elizabeth Witek, whom she sent... Mr President, this is not a formal proposal. Yeah, that's the conclusion. But where's the formal conclusion? ... Vice-President of the European Commission. Mr President, you have promised to make a formal proposal. Don't close your mouths. We don't close our mouths. What's the conclusion? In connection with the letter from the Vice-President of the European Commission to Marshal Elizabeth Witek, in which the Vice-President of the Commission insists that the draft be sent to the Venice Commission, the advisory body of the Council of Europe, I request a break and the preparation and referral of the request of the High House to the Commission (the bell)... [[The Vice Marshal shuts down the microphone]] Bravo! Here's Poland. Mr. Marshal, may I? We recommend a trip to Venice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u139	Thank you very much. We can go to the vote on the break in the voting block. May I? No. [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr President, I would like to draw your attention! We proceed with the examination of item 28 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on Parliamentary draft resolutions on the recognition of Nobel Prize winner Olga Tokarczuk (prints No 47, 59 and 90). There's order here, not that someone's coming... Caracal. Caracals are already on the ground. Thanks for the black hawks you bought. Seven, exactly. I would like to ask Mr Tomasz Zimoch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u140	Mr. Marshal! Mr Fellowships, Mr Fellow Members, I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Culture and Media on Parliamentary draft resolutions on the recognition of the Nobel Prize winner Olga Tokarczuk. The draft resolution was submitted to the Marshal of the Sejm first by the Civic Coalition, then the club of the Left. The meetings were exciting. One member outside the committee opposed such a resolution. A proposal from the Law and Justice Club appeared during the proceedings and a subcommittee was set up. The final text of the resolution was drawn up during its deliberations. During the proceedings, the rapporteur presented two books of the Nobel Prize winners to the president, so that the PiS Members would not be afraid to read them, they would get through them, especially the Minister of Culture and one of the Deputy Prime Ministers. [[Applause]] I stress the very calm, cultural conduct of the proceedings by the chairman of the committee of Piotr Babinetz and the subcommittee of Jack the World. Mr Ast, President of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, could really learn a lot from his clubmates. Mr President, it is not your competence to compare Members of the various committees at the moment. This is not a report. He's reporting. Report on the work of the cultural committee. Not yours. The Commission adopted the text of the resolution with 25 votes in favour and 1 abstention. Therefore, the Committee on Culture and Media, after first reading and considering draft resolutions at its meetings on 18 and 19 December, asks the High Sejm to approve the attached draft resolution. If you don't mind, I'll read the project. Be fair, Marshal. Thank you very much. The resolution of the Polish Sejm on the occasion of receiving the Nobel Prize by Olga Tokarczuk. Polish literature was awarded the Nobel Prize for the fifth time. In 2019 Olga Tokarczuk joined Henryk Sienkiewicz, Władysław Reymont, Czesław Miłosz and Wisława Szymborska. The author of 'Bieguns', 'Bad Books' or 'Law and other times' courageously writes about the crisis of Western civilization. It tells us how difficult it is to merge a world that has become a world of fragments of separate existences and narratives. 'Everything is separated from each other, lives separately, without connection - said the writer in her Nobel speaking. - Greed, lack of respect for nature, selfishness, lack of imagination, endless competition, lack of responsibility brought the world to the status of an object that can be cut into pieces, used and destroyed. That is why I believe that I must tell as if the world is a living, constantly becoming one before our eyes, and we are his - at the same time a small and powerful - part." The Sejm of the Republic of Poland wishes to express its appreciation for Olga Tokarczuk - laureate of the Literary Prize The Nobel Prize for 2018. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland expresses its satisfaction and pride that Poland was among eight countries with the largest number of Nobel Prizes in the field of literature. The reason for joy is that this distinction promotes Polish literature all over the world and meritoriously confirms its high position. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u141	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle, because we have one so far. I'm opening a discussion. First, Mrs Joanna Lichocka, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u142	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I am very pleased that we have been able to draw up a compromise text of a resolution supported by all groups except the Confederate circle. I am very pleased that such an opportunity as another Nobel for Polish literature can unite us. That's a lot of satisfaction. There really is a reason to rejoice that we are one of the few countries that has as many as five Nobel literary awards, including two women, a poet and a writer... [[Applause]] Bravo! ...have received this award. Really regardless of how we judge the views of the creators, it is worth to appreciate the craftsmanship, appreciate the workshop and enjoy the prestigious awards such as the Award The Nobel Prize comes from Polish literature. That is why the Law and Justice will, of course, support this resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u143	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Grupiński, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u144	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Rejoice is great whenever such honors do not apply so much to people as to the works which they create, because these works are in fact the most important. Writing by Olga Tokarczuk this is the kind of journey through Polish and not only Polish universal fates, describing the world in a way that I have already talked about here, but about which it is worth to say one thing, namely that it is in some sense to describe or tell a story in which we can all see ourselves in which we can all see each other. Józef Korzeniowski once said something like that, that the authors write half and the other half write readers. But we also know - the state on the right does not like Enlightenment - that Denis Diderot said that anyone who stops reading books stops thinking. [[Joy in the Chamber]] We know those who stopped reading completely unnecessary. [[Applause]] Thanks to this award we observe two processes in the Republic of Poland. One is the increase, and this is the increase of graphomans, just hundreds came out, if not thousands of people who could even say that Olga Tokarczuk is not Polish, that he is anti-Polish, that he is someone to be ashamed of, a full increase, as I say, also political graphomania. And the second process - there are people who were not only happy with this award, but went to bookstores, started to buy more books, started reading more, during the last month sold 1 million more copies of books in Poland. This is the real success of Olga Tokarczuk, the Polish culture... [[Applause]] Bravo! ...and it is also in some sense the merit of those who noticed the work of Olga Tokarczuk at the Nobel Academy. So let's not listen to graphomans, let's read books, remember what Albert Einstein once said, that imagination is greater than knowledge, because knowledge is limited. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u145	Thank you. Now you have the floor of Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u146	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to say that I am very pleased that we have reached a consensus, and even though this resolution has not been discussed at the last sitting, it is only now that I am pleased that there will be consensus during the vote. I may surprise some of you, but we owe a great deal to Mrs. Joanna Lichocka of Law and Justice here, [[Applause]] who actually reads books and understands what my colleague Grupiński said earlier and now and at the last meeting. So I am pleased that the Members of the Law and Justice will raise their hand to celebrate this extraordinary award of Olga Tokarczuk. I do not want to go back to the discussion that took place at the meeting of the Committee on Culture, because in the case of some Members, it was embarrassing and unquoteable. But I would like to say from this speaker that we, Members of the Left Club, are proud with all our heart that Olga Tokarczuk has made Poland so famous all over the world. It's obvious to us. We read her books from board to board and it was obvious to us that Olga Tokarczuk should be here in a very strong and very special way recognized as a pearl of Polish culture. I would also like to add two paragraphs which are not included in this resolution, and which, I believe, are very specific and worth reading now. As the Left in our text of the resolution, we also wanted to include such words about Olga Tokarczuk, that he is the person who embodies the part of our culture that is not afraid of differentness, diversity and thinking outside of the established patterns, which conveys to the reader this part of the truth, which we are increasingly forgetting that respect and curiosity lie at the basis of communication between people, not the same color of the skin, religion, the same views or the same orientation. During the debate at the meeting of the Committee on Culture by one of the members of the PiS, this was considered leftist. I would like to say to this Member, Mr Suski, whom I do not see here, that respect for another man is not measured by where we come from, what color we have, what we read or what we do not read. These are basic human rights to respect everyone. I'm talking about it because Olga Tokarczuk respects everyone, even the one who can't read her books, and talks about it publicly. Respect for another person is also something that matters most to the Left. We are proud as Members of the Left that Olga Tokarczuk will finally be recognized by the Sejm as a pearl of Polish literature and a pearl of Polish culture. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u147	Mrs Bożena Żrołowska, club of the Polish People's Party. There is no Member. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Club of the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u148	I'm going to say what a lot of people in this room probably think in secret, but in the name of conformism he's afraid or ashamed to say it. I believe that the review of different events by the legislative bodies is absolutely unnecessary. The legislaty is called to be the law, not to comment on reality. [[Applause]] There is no reason for the Polish Parliament to give an opinion as to whether the Nobel Committee is good at awarding prizes or bad. This is unnecessary talk, this is some columnist we don't need. Especially when the PiS Members have not found the courage to sign a very important position to the European Parliament on its resolution addressed to us, it is all the more inappropriate to make calls completely meaningless. Maybe Mr. Ladybug gets the Nobel Prize for this resolution, if not literary, maybe peace. Why don't you get it? I will always oppose the Sejm speaking on non-political issues. If he had the idea to express his appreciation, for example. For excellent films by Grzegorz Braun, I'll be against that too. If he wanted to reward Janusz Korwin-Mikke's contribution to Polish columnism, I would also be against it. The Sejm is not to decide whether Mickiewicz was a great poet or whether Lech Janerka is a great musician. No offense, but this House's recommendation would disgust you. I see no reason for politicians to burn in the glow of other people's accomplishments. You're trying to shine light reflected because you've got nothing to show for yourself. It's not patriotism, it's complex treatment. If we are proud that the Pole has won the Nobel Prize, I understand that we will also apologize if the Pole shoots someone abroad. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Let each one pluck his own breasts for his own accomplishments and fight in his own breasts. What a golden thought. The Polish Sejm is not an arbitrage of elegance. I bet less than one in 100 Members have read any work by Mrs Olga Tokarczuk before she got that Nobel Prize. Now I'm still assuming that less than 10 out of 1,000 has really any idea of this literature... The fact that you don't read is not our problem. ...and suddenly you feel an irresistible need to speak about it. And the court of the layman, when he speaks of the work, speaks little of the work, of the layman much. So I think it's completely unnecessary. Suddenly, the sentence of the Scandinavian wise men caused everyone to know about literature and have to say that Olga Tokarczuk is a great poet. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Those who didn't know each other don't know each other. But silence, please. It's the poet talking. The poet says yes. And you want to talk about such elegant topics, and here you can't behave. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I regret that you have lost so much of your valuable time to follow up on this statement when we do not have time to read the amendments to the reform of the judiciary. I'm sure the world can do without our position on this. In addition, Mrs. Olga Tokarczuk's own work also raises my doubts, so I have no reason to join in with these delights. A few circumstances indicate that the political key here was not meaningless in the award of this prize. Stanisław Michalkiewicz predicted this award, imagine you, for precisely such reasons that he saw that she was clearly going with her rhetoric on the Nobel. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So the Confederation will not support this position. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u149	Thank you very much, sir. Nine ladies and gentlemen came to the question. I close the list of Members who have been asked questions. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. Mrs Monica Falej, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u150	Dear Marshal, Dear Izbo! Award of the Nobel Prize for Olga Tokarczuk it is not only a great distinction and appreciation of the talent of the writer, but also a historical event for Poland. Her literature is embedded in the context of Polish culture and history. It's probably the best promotion of our country today. I personally welcome the fact that a woman was rewarded with a unique, unparalleledly one of the best writers, a brave woman who brings a wise and important message to the modern world. Her noblow speech should reach the hearts of each and every one of us. Her voice is an attempt to face the challenges of the present, to restrict civil rights in the name of imaginary ideologies. Fights for animal rights or points to the consequences of climate change. Such sensitivity and wisdom are needed today. The world's dying, and we're... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u151	Thank you very much. Madame, you have exceeded your time. Please learn the discipline of time. Mrs Anita Kucharska, Club Left. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u152	I will not warm up in the glow of the prosaic - not the poet - Olga Tokarczuk, while I have an appeal. There's only one story about Olga Tokarczuk on the reading list. I hope that her books will also appear there and we will not shorten the opportunity for students to read her literature for one story. I also hope that in the framework of nearly PLN 2 billion allocated to public media for the next year we will discredit the success of Olga Tokarczuk also in public media, showing it and against the background of our other Nobel Prize winners, including Wisława Szymborska or Czesław Miłosz, and maybe also Lech Wałęsa. I hope that these will be good, fair and reliable publicity programmes and the promotion of this work as part of our nationwide getting up out of our knees and our dignity policy. Because this is the success that can actually show us (the bell) in a better light in the world. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u153	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Krutul, club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u154	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal, I would like to ask you to invite Polish Nobel Prize winner Olga Tokarczuk to the next session of the Sejm so that we can express our huge thanks for promoting Polish literature all over the world. My question is, when will the marshal present such an invitation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u155	Mr Artur Łącki, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u156	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, it is rare for us to enjoy such great successes of our citizens abroad. And not because they are less capable than others, just because the Polish state with the face of the PiS did not organize or help anyone, did not create any mechanisms for promoting young Poles and Poles in the world. But it organized very well the promotion of mediocre party equipment in companies of the Treasury or old party equipment in the national foundation. That's why you have to enjoy every such success in the world. That's why, Mrs. Olga, thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u157	Mrs. Joanna Jaśkowiak, the Civic Coalition Club. There is no Member. Barbara Nowacka, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u158	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A special day, a unique moment, a short one - that in such agreement is a thing that we are all, with a small, insignificant exception, impresses with pride, pride from Poland, with its achievements. We can all feel patriotic. How much more pleasant it would be if everything were to succeed, even sometimes sacrificing the violence of the moment, the joy of the day, when we called for this resolution, to build for this consent. And so it would be wonderful if we could conduct other laws in such a pleasant and compatible atmosphere. Unfortunately, that's not what's happening. Let me ask you a question to the committee if it also provides for other activities commemorating this important opportunity for all of us, namely the Nobel Prize for Mrs Olga Tokarczuk, including the invitation of Mrs Olga Tokarczuk to the Sejm. Perhaps the High Sejm would like to participate in the publication and promotion of the works of Mrs.Olga Tokarczuk, as well as other outstanding (The Bell) Nobel Prize winners and Nobel Prize winners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u159	Mr Konrad Frysztak, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u160	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Like Mrs Nowacka, I would like to ask whether you are a marshal, a marshal, who is expecting an invitation to the Polish Parliament, to the Lower House of our Nobel Prize winner. It is worth noting that in the Senate, Mr. Marshal Grodzki has already held such a meeting. It seems that it would also be a perfect opportunity for Mrs Olga Tokarczuk to perform in this room. Therefore, a specific question: Is there such a plan? Is this the solution you and the marshal are planning? And the second thing - this is also an opportunity to commend the conduct of our Nobel Prize winner, who passed on her medal for the bidding of the Great Orchestra of Christmas Help. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u161	Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u162	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! At this point, at this point I really wanted to express great pride and just great admiration for our Nobel Prize winner, for Olga Tokarczuk. This is a really great success of our literature. It was here before. mentioned that this is not a symptom of patriotism, and I wanted to say that of course it is. This is a great success of Polish culture. And I also wanted to say that this is really a common interest, a common cause. Olga Tokarczuk is the common good of all who speak Polish, therefore this is our common cause for joy. So, ladies and gentlemen, being here, very happy that there is a case that can connect us, I would also like to join the questioning whether we will be able to host Mrs Olga Tokarczuk in this House. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u163	Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u164	Miss Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the Minister of National Education if he is considering recommending the inclusion of more works by Olga Tokarczuk in school readings, because at the moment only one story by Olga Tokarczuk is on the list of readings in general schools. I also wanted to ask the Minister of National Education, the Minister of Culture, if you would like to ask the Prime Minister whether there will be money in the next year's budget of the State to complete the public collections, public libraries about the works of Olga Tokarczuk, because these works are missing and at the moment Poles and Poles are registering on waiting lists to be able to read these books in public libraries. After such an event, it seems that the state should meet the underfunded public libraries and deliver these books (the bell) to the libraries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u165	Thank you. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u166	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I do not know if you know that Mrs Olga Tokarczuk in her speech on the occasion of receiving the Nobel Prize said that as Christopher Columbus discovered South America, there were large fields of corn and cabbage. Conquistadors killed the local Indians. At the site of these fields the jungle grew, this jungle absorbed carbon dioxide from the air and there was global cooling. Of course, by gossiping such nonsense, Mrs Tokarczuk ridicules not Poland, but himself, but artists can tell each other what they want. It's just that we can look at artists with sympathy, but I still don't understand why the Sejm is doing it and why politicians are doing it. However, I would like to remind you that if Sienkiewicz were to receive the Nobel Prize, you would be... Why are you performing? ...out of outrage, and the right hand would be delighted here, because he said, quote: The right hand of the left divides everything, also the attitude towards arithmetic characters. The right hand loves to add and multiply, and the left loves to subtract and divide equally. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u167	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. You're the draftsman of the committee? No. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. I'm declaring a time-out. 15. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 min 47 hrs 15 min 17]] I'm reopening the session. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - amending the Act on the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities and certain other laws, - on the amendment of the excise duty law, - amending the Law on Specific Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2019. The reports shall be in prints Nos 104, 105 and 106, respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 and 5a of the Sejm's Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau submitted a draft resolution on the establishment of the Polish Inter-Paramental Union Group, print No 109. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the first reading of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees, print No 102. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights presented its opinion on the proposal for the selection of a candidate for the post of Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, print 88. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of the matter. The clubs have submitted applications for the designation of members of the State Election Commission, print No 92. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of the matter. I propose that the Sejm decide to shorten the deadline laid down in Article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and the examination of applications without being sent to the committee responsible. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. Objection. Then justify it. Objection. In view of the opposition raised to shorten the deadline, we will settle this in the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of agreeing to shorten the deadline laid down in Article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure Sejm, will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Thank you. 441 Members voted. 232 was in favor, 208 against, holding one. The Sejm accepted the offer. In view of the opposition raised to the examination of the applications without referring the matter to the committee, this will be decided in the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of consenting to the examination of applications without referring them to the committee would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Thank you. 445 Members voted. 231 was for, 214 against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the offer. The committee responsible submitted a report on the parliamentary draft resolution on the commemoration of the 80th anniversary of the first expulsions of Poles by the Germans during World War II, print No 108. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Sejm Regulation. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. A formal request for adjournment has been submitted. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Thank you. 448 Members voted. 204 was for, 243 against, one abstained. The motion was rejected. We would like to refer to item 28 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Culture and Media on Parliamentary draft resolutions on the recognition of Nobel Prize winner Olga Tokarczuk. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 90. We'll proceed to the vote... Excuse me, there's a question. Mr Grzegorz Braun. He doesn't love Polish literature. One minute. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u168	God bless you! The question is: Is the Sejm of the Republic of Poland a critic of literature? There it is. He's out of culture. Is the Sejm of the Republic of Poland a body whose purpose is to review wise or stupid verdicts of any government acting, praise God, outside the borders of the Republic of Poland? To whom is that a question? You call Mrs Olga Tokarczuk brave in your resolution. I'm going to call her an economicalist on a wave of political correctness... It's just a sign of you. ...but I don't want you to share my point of view. I do not demand recognition of my point of view, but you, ladies and gentlemen, do not rape this significant part of the Polish people, who recognized the cosmopolitan anti-Polish agitator in Olga Tokarczuk. You're anti-Polish. Get off the podium. Sit down! Disgraceful!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u169	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed to the vote... Excuse me, Mr Mirosław Suchoń. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u170	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Marshal, and I ask you very kindly to answer this question, the content of this important resolution. In order for the rapporteur to be polite to present to the High House and to all citizens and citizens who listen to us and watch today [[Applause]] the deliberations, the content of this important resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u171	Thank you, sir. I ask Mr Tomasz Zimoch to speak. There you go. Mr President, at the moment, I have stated... I have an objection... You can't have the opposite. I don't think she's important... You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u172	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! Mr. Grzegorz! We listened to you at the committee meeting, and really listen... Read, read. I apologise, sir, but there was a request for you to read the resolution. I thought you were supposed to be reading, not discussing. But do you mind, Marshal? I'll read it. I would like to ask you to read the resolution because that was the conclusion. [[Some of the Members are up.]] Oh, Jesus. The resolution of the Polish Sejm on the occasion of receiving the Nobel Prize by Olga Tokarczuk. Polish literature was awarded the Nobel Prize for the fifth time. In 2019 Olga Tokarczuk joined Henryk Sienkiewicz, Władysław Reymont, Czesław Miłosz and Wisława Szymborska. The author of 'Bieguns', 'Bad Books' or 'Law and other times' courageously writes about the crisis of Western civilization. It tells us how difficult it is to merge a world that has become a world of fragments of separate existences and narratives. 'Everything is separated from each other, lives separately, without connection' - said the writer in her Nobel speaking - Greed, lack of respect for nature, selfishness, lack of imagination, endless competition, lack of responsibility brought the world to the status of an object that can be cut into pieces, used and destroyed. That is why I believe that I must tell as if the world is a living, constantly becoming one before our eyes, and we are his - at the same time a small and powerful - part." The Sejm of the Republic of Poland wishes to express its appreciation for Olga Tokarczuk - laureate of the Literary Prize The Nobel Prize for 2018. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland expresses its satisfaction and pride that Poland was among eight countries with the largest number of Nobel Prizes in the field of literature. The reason for joy is that this distinction promotes Polish literature all over the world and meritoriously confirms its high position. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u173	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u174	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 I present the position of the club on the resolution of the Polish Sejm on the occasion of receiving the Nobel Prize by Olga Tokarczuk. The year 2019 is special for Polish literature and culture. Polish literature was awarded the Nobel Prize for the fifth time. Writer Olga Tokarczuk is the fifth Nobel Prize winner from Poland. Previously, this most important award was awarded to Henryk Sienkiewicz in 1905, Władysław Stanisław Reymont in 1924, Czesław Miłosz in 1980 and Wisław Szymborska in 1996. Tokarczuk is also the second Pole with this prestigious award of world literature and the third Pole who won this prestigious award. The members of the Nobel Committee also emphasized the timeless importance and message of the Jakub Books - a monumental work by Olga Tokarczuk, which has been translated into many foreign languages. Olga Tokarczuk is also the author of The Travels of the People of the Book, the Right and other times, the Games on many drums, the Lead your plow through the bones of the dead, and the novel "Bieguni" for which she received the Booker Award in 2018. Olga Tokarczuk's writing is characterized by extraordinary imagination, sensitization, raises brave questions, refers to Polish tradition, Polish history and shows the richness of our language. This award is a huge success of Poland on the world stage. It shows how wise and courageous women can be about the strength of Polish culture. Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 recommends the text of this resolution to the High House.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u175	We'll proceed with the vote. Okay, I'm waiting. We're waiting for an MP who's running to... He's got a card there, right? Already? We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no. 90 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. 406 was for, against - 1, 17 stopped. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the occasion of receiving the Nobel Prize by Olga Tokarczuk. [[Applause]] We proceed to the examination of item 30 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on commemoration of the 80th anniversary of the first expulsions of Poles by the Germans during World War II (prints 101 and 108). I would like to ask Mr Tomasz Zieliński to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u176	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report by the Committee on Culture and Media about the draft resolution on commemorating the 80th anniversary of the first Polish displacements by the Germans during World War II. The Commission at its meeting on 20 December, i.e. today, after first reading - I would just like to add that various proposals were made at the committee meeting, whether we should use the word "removals' or "removals', and on a consensus basis it was considered that the two wordings were included in the proposed resolution. In the end, all the members of the committee have adopted the draft resolution and we are asking the Sejm to adopt this resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] It needs to be read. Mr President, may I ask you to read this resolution? [[The Gathered Rise Up]] The resolution of the Polish Sejm on commemorating the 80th anniversary of the first Polish exiles by the Germans during World War II. The outbreak of the Second World War was a particularly tragic experience for the people of Wielkopolska, Pomerania and Silesia and other areas incorporated by the Germans directly into the Third Reich. The extermination of elites, mass extermination of the Polish population, the colonization of these territories by the Germans, the destruction of the works of Polish culture and the plundering of Polish property were linked to plans for the total Germanization of these areas. These events were the implementation of the Nazi political doctrine called Lebensraum, that is, the expansion of the living space of the German people. In Pomerania, German occupation authorities expelled tens of thousands of Polish residents of Gdynia at the turn of October and November 1939. It was the first such large displacement action carried out by the Germans during World War II. For the governor established in the occupied Greater Poland by Germany of the Warty Country, Poles were: 'an element not worthy of inclusion in German society'. One of the beginnings of the organized mass export of Poles is the creation of a resettlement camp in Poznań, Poland, on 5 November 1939. persons. First of all, landowners, entrepreneurs, intelligence, independence activists and critics of the Nazi German system were displaced. A total of almost half a million Poles, including the citizens of Poland of Jewish and Roma origin, were deported from the areas annexed by Germany to the General Government. The mass expulsions of Poles from the areas of Wielkopolska, Pomerania and Silesia and other areas incorporated into the Third Reich remain a painful and still living memory and a warning to present and future generations. On the 80th anniversary of the first expulsions of Poles by the Germans the Sejm of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to all victims.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u177	I propose that the Sejm adopt a resolution by acclamation. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. I state that the Sejm adopted a resolution by aclamation on commemorating the 80th anniversary of the first displacements of Poles by the Germans during World War II. We proceed with the examination of item 13. of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Public Finance on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Solidarity Fund for Disabled Persons Act and certain other laws (prints Nos 94 and 104). I ask Mr Tadeusz Cymanski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u178	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Information and report are very modest. The Senate presented four amendments for the opinion of the Committee on Public Finance. The first two were negative and the next two were positive. The Committee on Public Finance recommends that the High House adopt these proposals and accept them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u179	Thank you, sir. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the Senate amendments under discussion, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. Amendments 1 to 3 were tabled in Article. 1 amending act amending the Solidarity Fund for Disabled Persons Act. In Amendment 1, the Senate proposes amendments to the Article. 1 paragraph Point 1 (2), Article 4 (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) Point 1a (2) as well as to Article. Article 6b (6) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 1 point The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question was raised by Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska. You're welcome, my fellow Member. One minute. You don't have an MP? In that case... There it is. There it is. Come on, come on.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u180	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In fact, we have been asking this question for over a month: Has the government broken a stabilizing spending rule this year? Did you spend more than you could spend? Why are you running from the budget today to a fund with different expenses? And finally: Why is the 13th pension refinanced? But first of all, we would like to finally get an answer to the basic question: What will be the repayment of the loans that today are provided by the Solidarity Fund? From the pockets of thieves. What are you going to pay back a loan of 4 billion from the Labour Fund? What are you going to pay off from the extremely important Demographic Reserve Fund, which was supposed to serve the next generation, our children, our grandchildren at a time when we're going to fight the effects of the pension (the bell) of the demographic boom? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u181	Thank you, Member. And I ask you to ask Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski from the Left. You're welcome. What are you going to pay for the modern debt? I'm counting on you to contribute. Please don't discuss the benches.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u182	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Solidarity Fund was to be such a guarantee of security for those who here, in the Seym, protested, who here, meeting Members, showed the fate of tens of thousands of people with disabilities. This bill was prepared in a disgraceful manner. These amendments, which were tabled, were intended to civilise the project. You're convinced you're not taking anything. Because you take away the sense of social justice from people with disabilities. You take the feeling that people with disabilities can always count on the Polish Sejm. It was promised to them here. And I ask the question: Do you realize - and I ask the Minister - that all these people in the future will be able to feel deceived by the Polish Sejm that the money that was intended to ensure their normality was passed on to other purposes? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u183	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 232 was in favor, against 214, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the second amendment, the Senate proposes to add an article. 7a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. I ask you to ask Mr Stanisław Pie... Sławomira. Sławomir Infantry. I'm sorry, it's not my fault.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u184	High Seym! When the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities was introduced a year ago, the justification for introducing a new tax and taking over money from the Labour Fund was the need to support people with disabilities. This law removes the support of people with disabilities from the name of the fund. This raises the obvious concern of people with disabilities that this fund will no longer serve people with disabilities. The Senate wants to ensure that the money collected in this fund will be spent for purposes serving people with disabilities. Why did PiS vote against the Senate amendment in the Committee on Public Finances? So what does the PiS want to use this money for? Is that gonna be extra money for Jack Kurski's TV propaganda? Is that gonna be money for new limos in place of crashes? Rydzyk. On TVN. Will it be money for the Polish National Foundation, financing (The Bell) travels notes for purposes that certainly do not serve Poland? [[Applause]] Your Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u185	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 233 was in favor, against - 213, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the third amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question was raised by Mr Szczerba, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u186	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! You may remember that when excise duty was increased for 2020, we wanted this money to be earmarked for a programme to combat cancer. Specific topics are needed and resources are dedicated to specific objectives. Today we find out, High Izbo, that next year President Jacek Kurski and TV PiS will receive PLN 1.95 billion for subscription compensation together with the radio. The Senate, ladies and gentlemen, has proposed that the funding from the solidarity tribute, the contribution to the Labour Fund, be made directly to people with disabilities. In the case of these two amendments, which you have tabled and which you have rejected, you are again causing such a situation as in the case of excise duties. These are the means (the bell) that can go to anyone, even Jack Kurski. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u187	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u188	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! By omission... I was going to talk about the second amendment, so I'm going to talk about the second amendment, which unfortunately you voted against. We're talking about 3. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry, but it was my fault. I didn't see the name of the Member. She actually volunteered, so even though we're after the vote, I let you ask. You're welcome. Thank you very much. Unfortunately, my question is no longer relevant, but I would like to say that it was an amendment that was developed together with people who represented the disabled environment. It provided what you were saying, what you had promised earlier, that this money would not be taken away from them and would be put in the right place - it would be used to finance specific tasks, such as government and departmental programmes, which are aimed at social, professional or health support provided under the Accessibility Fund, as well as for the financing of a supplementary benefit (the bell). It's gone. It's a shame. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u189	Thank you, Member. I invite you to ask Ms Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bak from the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u190	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This question essentially concerns all amendments. Why does the ruling majority refuse to accept the principle proposed by the Senate, which assumes that the money from the solidarity tribute will only be allocated to people with disabilities? After all, it is your Member, the Member of Law and Justice, Mrs Urszula Rusecka, who presented the draft of a novel to the High House, who said, and this is a quote: the amended law does not restrict, eliminate, differentiate support for people with disabilities. Mr Cymanski spoke in a similar tone about the draft law during the Committee on Public Finances. Here's another quote: I said clearly that the money that belongs, the money dedicated to letters and ideas, will all go to the disabled. Don't scream. Why, then? Are you afraid of this Senate amendment? Were the earlier declarations of politicians and politicians of the United Right simply a lie? I would like to appeal to you for consistency and for sticking to your own words, for credibility. If you really wanted to safeguard the rights of people with disabilities, you would vote in favour of the Senate amendment or at least (the bell) you would be ready to explain your decision.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u191	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 1 Member was in favour, 447 against, no one abstained. Therefore, the Sejm, in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority, accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. The 12th Law amending the Senate proposes among others. amendment to the Public Finance Act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. Mrs Iwona Hartwich, the Civic Coalition - please ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u192	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, you were still sharing a levy, and today you're denying people with disabilities the chance to have a little better life. What the Solidarity Fund was supposed to be, I know perfectly well. You also know what resulted from its creation - from these events and the state of disgraceful behaviours. It was created solely to help people with disabilities - that was your response to our protest. [[Applause]] Who created this? You're robbing people with disabilities today. That's not true. I address Mr Kaczyński and Prime Minister Morawiecki in particular. That's not true. If you do this, it will be a disgrace to this government. That's not true. Today, standing here... Remember that when you share a petal in your homes. I'm your remorse. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Ha, ha, ha! What are you laughing at? My disabled son, who for 40 days lay on tiles, and thousands of people with disabilities in Poland who count on your help, because you promised them this help. [[Applause]] That's not true. You're lying. This is not a political protest.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u193	Thank you, Member. The protest is political because life depends on politicians. I would like to ask you to answer the question of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Ms Magdalena Maląg. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u194	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It would be good if we operated on the facts. Facts, just facts. Indeed, it was the Government of Law and Justice and the United Right that showed that it was creating a broad [[Applause]] coalition to support people with disabilities. Ma'am, these are the numbers that show how we work. Listen to me calmly. Swap in for one day with your family with a disabled child. For one day. And don't lie to me. Member. Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marlena Magdalena Maląg: Ma'am, in 2015, your government transferred PLN 34 billion to the disabled. Today we give 44 billion PLN. It's okay. This is a disgrace. These are new programs, new activities. [[Applause]] Some Members are chanting: PCK! PCK! PCK! Ladies and gentlemen, let us stand in the truth by creating a coalition to support people with disabilities. We serve and serve people with disabilities. Thank you very much. This is the truth of the truth. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u195	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that... I won't allow any questions, because you're not asking for an answer. If he answers the constitutional minister's question, and that's how you're reacting... So I understand you don't want to hear the answer. [[Applause]] We want the truth. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 4th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. Nobody was for, no 443 was against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the excise duty Act (prints No 95 and 105). I ask Mr Henryk Kowalczyk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u196	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Senate adopted a resolution rejecting the Act amending the excise duty Act adopted by the Sejm on 21 November. The Finance Commission, after considering this resolution at its meeting on 19 December, asks that the Senate's resolution be rejected and that the above law be passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u197	Thank you, sir. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate resolution rejecting the law by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the resolution of the Senate rejecting the bill, it shall be deemed to have been adopted. We will vote on the motion to reject the Senate resolution. In its resolution, the Senate proposes to reject the Law of 21 November 2019 amending the Act amending the Law on excise duties. The Commission requests that this resolution be rejected. Members have asked the question. Mr Janusz Cichoń, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u198	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! This Act is due to enter into force on 1 January 2020. The Act, which provides for an increase in excise duty, is to enter into force on 1 January 2020. 21 days for its signature is the President of the Republic of Poland. The notary can do it a little faster, but it doesn't change the fact that you're putting entrepreneurs on a terribly difficult task. Is this the way to normality that you announced the Prime Minister in his exposé? Definitely not. In addition to all this - this money-jump in your performance may not work, because experience teaches that with such an increase in excise duty the budget income does not have to grow, but this is clearly too greedy (the bell) resulting from declarations that we are not able to meet. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u199	Thank you, sir. Please ask Mr. Tomasz Trela of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u200	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Taking advantage of the opportunity that you are Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, I wanted to ask this question, which is changing and at first reading, and during committee meetings, at the last committee meeting. Prime Minister, can you respond to what this billion 700 million zlotys will have to do with this increased excise duty - because you want to push this 10% - Is it meant to be? Or to patch the budget hole? Will there be any health, anti-alcoholic programmes? We have not received such an answer until today. The minister at the last session of the Sejm said he didn't need that money. I'm talking about the Minister of Health. It's amazing. But maybe the Prime Minister would answer exactly what the money will be meant for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u201	Thank you. I would like to ask the question of Mr Arthur Dziambor of the Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u202	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I'm not gonna be upset about the sugar tax that's getting ready right after you tax extra excises on alcohol and cigarettes. The real question is, what's next? On the other hand, using this, please, that Poles are watching us, they really listen to us, they know what is going on here - I wanted to say: Ladies and gentlemen, citizens, show your civil disobedience. Drop those cigarettes, stop drinking. Don't let Law and Justice patch the budget holes out of your pockets. Go for a run. The jogging hasn't taxed us yet. Thank you. [[Applause]] Bravo! Bravo! Great!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u203	Thank you, sir, for your very good advice. Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u204	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Taking advantage of the opportunity - and this is not often the case lately - that the Prime Minister has honored us with his presence... He's listening to your president's instructions at the moment, but I'd like to take advantage of that. Ooh... And, Prime Minister, ask... [[Some of the MPs are hitting the desktops.]] ...to tell us what it's like with this budget. Because it's okay, then it's bad, then it's okay again. You reach into the pockets of Poles. You reach this bill into the pockets of Poles, you want to rip them off. And this is where the High House would be, Prime Minister, to explain why. Why are you looting Poles? And let me repeat the second question. What exactly is this money meant for? Are they really for health purposes, or are they meant for President Kurski? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u205	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Senate's resolution rejecting the Act of 21 November 2019 amending the Excise Tax Act will want to raise his hand and press the button. Wait a minute. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 240 was for, 202 against, 4 stopped. The Sejm rejected the Senate's resolution by an absolute majority. At this end, we have concluded the Senate resolution on the amendment of the excise tax law. We proceed with the examination of item 25 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Public Finances on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on Specific Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2019 (Prints No 96 and 106). I ask Mr Zdzisław Sipiera to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u206	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! During the work of the Senate committee, there was only one proposal for this law, which increases, at the applicant's request, the reserve which was provided for in the draft resolution, the special reserve, which concerns health benefits that the NFZ will receive, from 2 billion to 3 billion. As a result of the committee's work, then the Senate's decision, this amendment was passed. This amendment was accepted during the work of the Committee on Public Finances. The Committee on Public Finance recommends adopting this amendment. Thank you very much. Applause
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u207	Thank you, sir. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In its amendment, the Senate proposes a different wording of the following article. 24b. 1 and the following Article shall be inserted: 24d paragraph. 1. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question was raised by Mrs Isabella Leszczyna, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u208	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! When I ask the High House to accept this amendment, I would also like to thank the Senate of the Republic of Poland (Applause), because thanks to the Senate the National Health Fund will have PLN 1 billion more for medical services. It's a drop in the sea of needs, but it's better than nothing. At the same time, the Minister of Finance may have a bitter satisfaction, very painful for Poles, because if the PiS passes a Repressive Act against judges today, Poland will no longer get any money from the European Union (Merry in the Chamber) and the Minister will not have to do this equilibrystika... You wish. ...not to exceed the stabilizing expenditure rule he had to do with this bill. And it's gonna be like a PRL. The government feeds, maybe Kurski's propaganda too, but there won't be any investment. Applause Speak for yourselves.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u209	Thank you, Member. I would like to ask Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Left. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u210	Ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to ask you a question because... We're talking about the budget bill right now, right? Good. I'm sorry. I wanted to ask you a question because the Left supports the Senate's request to extend by PLN 1 billion for this project. I just wanted to say, what exactly is this money going to do because they're going to the National Health Fund, but what exactly are they going to do?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u211	Thank you, Member. There you go, Mr Łukasz Schreiber, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u212	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I would like to declare that Parliamentary Club Law and Justice is ready to accept the amendment proposed by the Senate, to vote in favour. That's not surprising. It was in the rule of law and justice that the health budget rose from 76 billion to over 100 billion. So that we will always be happy to vote in favour of good solutions. Thank you. [[Applause]] People paid.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u213	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting the amendment will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. No one was for, 439 against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. We are returning to the examination of item 20 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the draft law amending certain laws to facilitate the control of infectious animal diseases. The additional committee report shall be in print No 93-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Robert Telus to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u214	Dear Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present to you a report on the meeting of both committees. Nine amendments were tabled during the second reading. Of these, the committees recommend one amendment positive and eight amendments negative. I ask the High House to support this bill. This law is very much needed, expected by farmers, by pig farmers. I also ask on behalf of both Senate committees that this bill be passed as soon as possible, because it is, as I said, expected by Polish breeders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u215	Thank you, sir. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print No 93. The committees also present minority proposals, as well as the additional report on amendments, on which we will vote first. Minority requests from 1 to 3 and amendments from 1 to 5 were submitted to Article. 3 draft amending law containing amendments to the Hunting Law Act. In the first amendment to Article. 8 applicants propose to add paragraph. from 11. to 13. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 196 was in favor, 241 against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 1st minority proposal to Article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The applicant shall propose to delete point 1. The question was raised by Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek, Left. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u216	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Izbo! We don't agree that hunters use the police, and that's what the law says. It's not the police's job to keep us out of the woods 'cause somebody's driving wild boars out there right now. The police have other, far more important responsibilities. That is why we are proposing to remove this entry from this law. [[Applause]] Ha, ha, ha!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u217	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 192 was for, against - 239, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the second amendment to the article. 11 applicants propose to add paragraph. 4 and 5. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. Małgorzata Tracz, the Civic Coalition, has signed up for the vote. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u218	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendment deals with the provision in which regulations on the application for assistance to uniformed services are included in the fight against ASF. A step in the right direction is to make it possible to apply for such assistance under the so-called. passive supervision and control of compliance by hunters with bio-insurance rules at the time of sanitary discharge. Unfortunately, along with these good changes, we are trying to push through a dangerous record that hunters will be able to ask uniformed services to secure the hunting ground against unauthorised entry of third parties. It's about every hunt, not just about a clean-up fire. Why do you want to give away hunters who are less than 1%? societies, exclusive forests, while limiting citizens' and citizens' rights to use forests that are our common good? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u219	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 185 - for, 255 - against, 1 abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the third amendment, applicants propose a new wording of the following Article. 29b. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 440 was for, 2 against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 29c. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 204 was for, against - 241, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 2nd minority application, applicants propose to leave Article. 32a in the current version. Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek, Left, joined the question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u220	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Izbo! In this provision, you propose that a year in prison or a fine should be imposed on persons whose presence in the forest during the hunt is deemed to obstruct it. We believe that this is a significant limitation on our rights. This is purely discretionary and we do not agree with this proposed provision. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u221	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the second minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 194 - for, against - 238, 9 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the third minority proposal and the same 5th amendment, the applicants propose to leave the existing wording of the Article. 42aa and Article. 52. The committees are asking for the amendment to be rejected. Ms Urszula Zielińska, the Civic Coalition, joined the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u222	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are currently working on a parliamentary bill aimed at combating African swine fever. What do we do? I recommend peace of mind. [[Applause]] This project does not combat ASF, because instead of focusing on the causes of the spread of the disease, such as the lack of proper bioinsurance, it focuses on the extermination of the wild boar population in Poland. But what else does this project introduce? This project, among others. introduces punishment for those who interfere with the hunt. Good. This may also apply to families with children who are either in their own plot or in the forest. When they are on a hunting ground, they may be punished as well. Ladies and gentlemen, this is no way to get rid of ASF. That's how you pour a baby with a bath. It's like another repressive act. And this is how we express our decision at this session of the Sejm. Don't laugh. That's not a funny problem. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u223	Thank you, Member. The question is asked by Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u224	Ladies and gentlemen! In the present law, you propose such forms of countermeasures related to the fight against ASF, in which you want to close the crossings for animals on the roads and engulf the forests. It has terrible consequences for the entire ecosystem. It's gonna disrupt the animal migration corridors. In fact, in order for this record to be effective, disinfection mats are sufficient, combined with slowing thresholds and speed limits on roads. The point is to make it more effective. We ask that you vote responsibly and that you do not accept the proposed provisions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u225	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd minority proposal and the 5th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 189 was for, against - 242, 13 stopped. The Sejm's motion for minorities and the amendment rejected. In the 4th minority application and the same 6th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 4 draft amending act. The committees are asking for the amendment to be rejected. The question was asked by Mrs Claudia Jachira, the Civic Coalition. Oh...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u226	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We propose an amendment concerning the deletion of Article from the above law. 4, note allowing the use of silencers during hunting during the eradication of wild boar populations. I have a question: How could you come up with this and allow it to go to such a point, when this record is even in the ethics of hunters, when even hunters are unable to hunt with silencers? What's more, are you going to lead ordinary walkers, tourists, nature lovers, not knowing that there's a hunt going on in the area, too, to be the victims of this silent execution? Do you want to have on your conscience not only the entire Polish population of boars, but also people? [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u227	Thank you, Member. I invite you to ask the question of Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u228	Ladies and gentlemen! You want to allow hunters to use silencers. It's the wrong thing to do. Silencers will cause animals to run and scare. This solution is potentially dangerous for us, because how will we know that there is a hunt in the woods. Please recall the numerous press reports on what is happening on the hunts.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u229	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th minority proposal and the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 187 was for, 241 against, 16 stopped. The Sejm's motion for minorities and the amendment rejected. Amendments 7 and 8 and minority requests from 5 to 10 were tabled in Article. 5 draft amending act containing amendments to the Animal Health Act and the fight against infectious animal diseases. In the 5th minority proposal to Article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants propose a new wording of point 8c. This proposal is accompanied by minority proposals 6, 7, 9 and 10. We will vote on these proposals together. Here you go, Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u230	Ladies and gentlemen! You want landowners not to be able to decide whether or not to hunt in their territory. You want to engage the police, the Border Guard, you want to close the woods while the police hunt. That's not how you fight ASF. Let's take care of bioinsurance, get more resources there, support farmers, invest in research into ASF vaccines. These are effective measures to fight this virus. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u231	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting minority proposals 5, 6, 7, 9 and 10 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 188 - for, 245 was against, 12 stopped. The Sejm rejected minority proposals. In the 7th amendment to the article. 47 applicants propose to add paragraph. 3. This amendment is combined with the 8th amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The committees are asking for their rejection. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 7 and 8 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 213 was for, 232 against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 8th minority proposal to Article. Forty-nine applicants propose e.g. In addition, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 7a-7c. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. For 157, 276 against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 11th minority application, the applicant shall propose to delete Article. 7 draft amending act. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th minority proposal will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 202 was for, 232 against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 9th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 8 draft amending act. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. Mr Artur Łęcki, the Civic Coalition, joined the question. You're welcome. Łącki, Łącki. I'm sorry, Łącki. That's what I said. Excuse me. Where's the scarf?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u232	Don't worry, I can do it. I left it because I bought another one, one with a PiS. Here's something, and here's PiS. Bravo! Ha, ha, ha! Prosperity in Poland. Mr President, ask the question, will you? You're welcome. And I ask you to remain calm. Ladies and gentlemen, we propose to delete the article. Eight for the same reason. The same thing I said yesterday about the Minister of Agriculture, you have to say about the Minister of Environment. One eagle didn't do anything yesterday, the other eagle showed up today, doesn't do anything. He hasn't been able to make a law on hunting circuits in six years. For six or seven years now, he hasn't been able to do anything at all, and for four years, as he rules, about hunting circuits. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, the first thing we need to do is to make good laws on hunting circuits, and we need to get on with other regulations that regulate it. We propose that we delete this whole thing. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u233	Thank you. In the 9th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 8 draft amending act. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 197 was in favor, 239 against, with four abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 12th minority application, applicants propose to amend the provision on the entry into force of the Act. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Civic Coalition, joined the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u234	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Within 4 years of the rule of law and justice, the ASF epidemic has reached such a size that both Minister Jurgiel and Minister Ardanowski can feel the godfathers of this disease in Poland. This is, of course, a dubious circumstance to congratulate, but it is significant that for four years no action has caused any significant cessation of the development of this disease. Moreover, some measures probably contributed to the increase in the number of problems. And the question to Minister Ardanowski: When will you finally end up pretending to fight this disease? This law also commands things the police are not called to, all these things are not known to be effective. It does not concern this amendment. When you finally reach for effective methods to stop the development of this disease and help Polish producers, including the small ones... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you, sir. ...who are exposed to economic consequences - actually stop the development of this disease? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u235	We'll proceed with the vote. Those of you and your fellow Members who are in favour of the 12th minority request would like to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 386 was for, against - 48, 10 stopped. The Sejm's motion for a minority accepted. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. I would like to ask Mr Tomasz Aniska, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u236	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Coalition Club agrees with the statement made in this Chamber by the rapporteur, I quote: This law will not solve the ASF problem in Poland. [[Applause]] Then why do we need a bill that doesn't solve the problem? During the work in committee we showed maximum goodwill, we tabled many amendments to save this bill. All our amendments have been rejected, which does not allow us at this moment to support our vote on this law. The Civic Coalition Club will vote against the proposed law in its wording. Thank you. [[Applause]] Ooh...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u237	Thank you, sir. Mr Romuald Aichler, Left, has the floor. You're welcome. Sunday, Dorota. What do you say? Against? Ladies and gentlemen, please...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u238	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, we're debating a bill that doesn't really do anything. She does not deal with the issue of the liquidation of ASF not only in Poland, but does not deal with the issue of ASF throughout Europe, because we as a country are no exception, ASF has not managed to eliminate anyone yet. During the debate, I paid attention to this several times and asked the Minister, who answered our questions five times, whether the Polish government was allocating any funds... Bring out the wolves. ...for research that could produce a vaccine that would be an effective cure for all the evil that is in Europe today. There are several countries where ASF doesn't exist, but that doesn't mean he'll be gone any minute. Today, the ASF problem is all over Europe. Minister, are you working with other European countries as well as with the world to find an effective remedy, an effective remedy? Otherwise, we just delay it in time and torture the wild animals unnecessarily. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u239	Thank you, sir. I would ask you to ask Mr Stefan Krajewski from PSL, the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u240	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Does the Government of Law and Justice want to fight against ASF, or will it continue to carry out sham actions? You have not taken into account any amendment proposed by the Polish Coalition - PSL - Kukiz15. That's not true! What do you mean, no? Just a moment ago. You're talking about high costs. I am asking you right now: What will be more expensive for the budget - 500 PLN for the wild boar being shot off, 500 PLN for the dead boar being found dead, creating several wild boar habitats or paying from the state budget for the slaughtered pigs? In the last 16 months, 50,000. the pigs have been disposed of. And you're still looking for reasons not to pay the farmers. Don't you know where to get the money? I'll give you a hint: from the TVP grant, because Poles and Poles no longer want to watch the endless series entitled: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. [[Applause]] For now, we see a shoe, arrogance... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you, sir. ...and the government's inaction. I invite you to ask Mr Michael Urbaniak's last question from the Confederation. You do not listen to the representatives of farmers, hunters, and even more so to opposition Members. You're playing one against the other. Thank you very much, sir. That's what you're really good at. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u241	I ask Mr Michael Urbaniak to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u242	High Izbo! We know that for four years, there wasn't much going on with the ASF case. We know this is a big problem. We know this bill isn't perfect. We are aware of this as a Confederation, but we will still support this project because we know that... Silencers are cool. ...wild boars at this point as one of the vectors need a population reduction. The Germans fired 800,000. wild boars. So? And the problem could be reduced. So today we're gonna help with this bill and vote in favour. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u243	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski. You're welcome. There's the Confederate vote. She was. One of the clubs.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u244	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank the Members who worked on this law for many hours, showing concern and responsibility for Polish agriculture. All the questions that have been asked here have already been answered, so this theatre that must be held must be accepted with humility. I want to answer very simply and briefly. The disease that was detected in the 19th century in Africa, hence its name, is now destabilizing the world: Asia, Europe, appears on other continents. The disease is caused by a very complicated virus, a mutating virus, on which there is no vaccine at the moment, although the work continues very intensively and Poland is also a participant in international work on finding the vaccine. But just as the best science centers tell us, it'll be a few more years before we find an effective vaccine to prevent this virus from spreading. The disease is also in Europe, from Scandinavia to the Balkans, and it also appears in Western Europe. In Poland it appeared on 17 February 2014 as a single campfire near the Belarusian border. I talked about it because it's been on duty for five years, over five years. Perhaps other methods had to be applied through fences of this area and depopulation of animals or killing animals in this area. Maybe that would work. There's no certainty. In any case, this disease was spread to parts of Poland in eastern voivodships. All those who fight the disease say that there are two basic actions that need to complement each other. Those who fight. The first is bio-insurance, which means sealing the farms so that the virus from the outside doesn't get into the farm. The example is Spain, where, after 30 years and the release of tens of billions of euros, pigs were virtually destroyed in all smaller farms, leaving them on large farms in the desert, barbed wire-fenced farms, isolated as fortified fortresses, where they try to save themselves from a disease from the environment. In Poland we have a very specific structure of farms also engaged in breeding the flock, often run in older buildings, without the possibility of sealing these buildings so that this disease does not get from the environment. So we need to look at the second element, which is strongly raised also by the European Union, by the European Food Safety Authority EFSA. Please do not use the 2014 data, because it seems that minimum honesty requires the use of data that refers to modern times. The European Union of 2017 in documents, in the opinions of Commissioner Andriukaits, who was responsible for food safety, speaks clearly from the European Commission's spokesman: the population of boars should be reduced to a precisely defined level of 1/10 pcs. per km2. Ladies and gentlemen, the actions that have been taking place for several years have made this disease go back. This year we have 48 cases of farms, last year around 210, in previous years many, many more cases, i.e. the disease in the farms we care most about, disappears. This shows that the actions that farmers take, by veterinary services, by companies that also reach farms are effective. Suffice to say, we haven't had a case on the farms in almost two months. We have not had any case on farms in Poland in 2 months. However, the great problem is that the disease is stored in the environment. She's only stored in wild boars. And the European Union's recommendation, which says that depopulation of wild boars to a safe level is one of the few effective measures to eradicate this disease, is what we want to do. We expected - and here the profession is very large - that the institution, the organization established to regulate the population of the game, which is the Polish Hunter Union, that this institution in care and in accordance with responsibility for Polish agriculture, for the social expectations of such depopulation to a safe level will make. Unfortunately, despite the fact that some hunters are quite responsible and there are many people there who also understand this situation of war in which we are, wars with disease, but many hunting circles, many hunters do not take these actions. Therefore, a country that wants to be effective, not cardboard, not virtual, not theoretical, cannot continue to tolerate the lack of gunshot, which is one of the few elements that affects the eradication of this disease. That's why we're making a bill, a special bill, a special act that allows you to run mechanisms that haven't been taken before. These mechanisms, that is also the use - with the consent of the commanders, of course, at the request of the voivodeships - of hunters who are in uniformed services, hunters I emphasize, is a step that will allow shootings to be carried out where the hunting union does not intend to intervene. Also hunters who want to pursue hunting pay attention to illegal activities, to violations of law by people who disturb, hinder, prevent hunting. The State must not allow the law to be broken. Breaking the law always has to face punishment. Prophetic words. That is why we are also introducing a Penalization of actions aimed at conscious interference with hunting. But that is contrary to what your fellow Members have said, that will be decided by the court. You have to make sure not only the wild, but the Ziobro obeys the law. Not the police, not the hunter, just the court. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is what Polish farmers expect at the moment. If, of course, someone has the right to do so in a democratic country, if he acts against this law, he must know that he is acting to the detriment of Polish agriculture. Thank you. Bravo! [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u245	We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 93, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Mr. Marshal, once again, I am unable to vote. The Sejm has passed a law amending certain laws to facilitate the fight against infectious animal diseases. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] You're in the way. I didn't give the results. It doesn't bother me. 270 Members voted. - 164... No, I'm sorry. 270 Members voted against 164 and 8 abstained. [[The chairmanship of the proceedings includes the Marshal of the Sejm Elizabeth Witek]] Can I possibly ask you to check the Member's card reader? Because the Member declares that something is not working. It always doesn't work when they lose. See if it works, sir. Your marshal, what about the voting system? It works, doesn't it? There you go. This is where you want it, isn't it? We return to the consideration of item 10 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code Act and some other laws. In the discussion, a request was made to refer the draft law to the Committee on Culture and Media in addition. The proposal given by the Sejm Bureau is that the Sejm should refer this draft law to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. If I do not hear any objections, I will consider that the Sejm's proposal for an opinion by the Sejm Bureau has been accepted and that I will put the motion for additional referral of this draft law to the vote. I can't hear you objecting. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of additional referral to the Committee on Culture and Media of the bill of 45 and 45 A will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. It was 193 against 250, no one stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. On the basis of the article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the report by the committee by 21 January 2020. We are returning to the examination of item 23 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act and the Corporate Income Tax Act. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission proposes the adoption of a draft Print Act No 103. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, Lewis, joined the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u246	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, this is a bill which, in short, gives money and subsidies that will not be taxed to Polish citizens. And that's good, although it doesn't give everyone, because it gives electric cars, whose price today is very high, because it's about 100,000. zł. My question, however, is: Are we really prepared today for the implementation of the electromobility law? Because buying cars is the last element, you need a charging station, you need all the infrastructure in cities. And here's the problem. In my view, it is necessary to answer the question whether the electromobility bill will actually be implemented. The direction is very good, this project we will support. As a Left, we will vote in favour. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u247	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print 103 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 430 was for, against - 3, 10 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Personal Income Tax Act and the Corporate Income Tax Act. We return to the examination of item 24 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Law on the Law on the System of General Courts, the Law on the Supreme Court and some other laws. During the second reading of the bill, a motion was made to reject the draft law in its entirety and to amend it. Following the request for immediate entry into the third reading of the bill without referring it back to the committee after the statement of amendments had been sent to the ladies and gentlemen. I will therefore put this proposal to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm has re-directed this draft law to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is for immediate accession to the third reading of the bill without sending it back to the committee after serving you and your fellow Members with a set of amendments, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 232 was for, 212 against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the offer. We proceed to the third reading. A summary of the proposal to reject the draft law in its entirety and the amendments were submitted to the Members for printing 107. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft Print Act 107. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. The question is, Mr Boris Budka. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u248	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal Tomasz Grodzki has just published a letter from the European Commission, which was sent to the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, the Marshal of the Senate and the Marshal of the Senate. So? This is a letter that exposes all the lies you've been feeding us for the last 24 hours. [[Applause]] This is a letter that tells the truth that you are once again submitting a draft law that is incompatible with European law and which is incompatible with the fundamental standards of the rule of law. Was there a letter in the envelope? Ladies and gentlemen! This is the last moment for you not to compromise Poland abroad again. This is the last moment for you not to compromise Parliament abroad again. They do not respect the good name of Poland. Unfortunately, despite the request made to you by the Marshal at the Senior Convention meeting, your Marshal (The Bell) did not wish to present this letter and stop the work... Time. Thank you, sir. ...over this bill. Therefore, the rejection request is fully justified. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u249	Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to clarify that we are voting right now... It was decided that we would immediately proceed to the third reading. Yes. We have a motion... And a motion for rejection. Ladies and gentlemen, the letter you're talking about, the one you showed here in the stand, I got a translation of that letter late this afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, I am a marshal of the Polish Parliament. [[Applause]] That's it. Bravo! We adopt law in the Polish Parliament. And I would very much like you to ask that the decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal of various years, from 2005, 2010, 2011 and 2013, which speak of the superiority of the Polish Constitution over the law of the European Union, are respected by you during the debate today. It's because of me. We therefore proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 203 was for, against - 233, 10 stopped. Sabotage. The Sejm's motion is denied. [[Applause]] In the 1st minority proposal, applicants propose a different recital. Ladies and gentlemen, one more explanation. On the basis of the article. Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the [[Touchdown, applause]] Bravo! You're gonna get a medal for this. Some of the MPs are hitting the desks. Scandal! Come on, woman! Disgraceful! I'll explain why. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we voted that the statements on behalf of the clubs would be five minutes' notice. Today I agreed to a ten-minute speech on behalf of the clubs. You guys use each other very often... Disgraceful! Perhaps for you shame, for me - the rules of procedure, art. Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2013 on the financial rules applicable Bravo! Banas. In the 1st minority proposal, applicants propose a different recital. The adoption of this minority proposal will render the 2nd minority proposal irrelevant. You said you were a marshal of the Polish Sejm. You don't act like a marshal of the Polish Sejm. Scandal! We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 164 was for, 235 against, 32 stopped. It's not working. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the second minority motion... It's working. It's not working. Ladies and gentlemen! Who doesn't? You can see if it works. See if it's working. Ladies and gentlemen, everything is working, so please don't mislead the marshal. [[Applause]] Bravo! Ladies and gentlemen, please do not mislead the marshal. Cheaters. I'm asking you very much. In the second minority proposal, applicants propose a different recital. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the second minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. It was 168, 233 against, 46 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the third minority proposal, applicants propose to give a new wording to the title of the Act. The adoption of this minority proposal will render the 4th minority proposal irrelevant. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 164 was for, 233 against, 51 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. The law on impunity of these cowards. In the 4th minority proposal, applicants propose to give a new wording to the title of the Act. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 4th minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 160 for, 233 against, 53 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 5th minority proposal to Article. The applicant shall propose to delete point 3. The adoption of this minority proposal will render the 1st amendment futile. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 203 - for, against - 229, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. Your Marshal, this is your debut to take your questions. In the first amendment to Article. The applicant shall propose an amendment to point 3. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 22 was for, 413 against, 10 stopped. The Sejm's amendment accepted... Sorry, the Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th minority proposal to Article. The applicant shall propose to delete point 4. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 204 was for, 233 against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 7th minority proposal to Article. 1 The applicants propose to delete point 6. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 7th minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 204 was for, against - 229, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 8th minority proposal to Article. The applicant shall propose to delete point 7. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 202 was for, 232 against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 9th minority proposal to Article. The applicant shall propose to delete point 8. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 203 was for, 232 against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 10th minority proposal to Article. The applicant shall propose to delete point 9. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th minority request will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 204 was for, against - 231, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 11th minority proposal to Article. The applicant shall propose to delete point 10. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th minority proposal will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. For - 204, 230 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 12th minority proposal to Article. The applicant shall propose to delete point 11. We'll proceed with the vote. Those of you and your fellow Members who are in favour of the 12th minority request would like to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 204 was for, against - 229, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 13th. a minority proposal to the Article. The applicant shall propose to delete point 12. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour 13. a minority request, he'll want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 203 - for, 232 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 14th minority proposal to Article. 1 The applicants propose to delete point 13. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 14th minority proposal will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 204 was for, against - 231, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 15th minority proposal to Article. The applicant shall propose to delete point 14. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 15th minority proposal will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 203 - for, 232 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 16th minority proposal to Article. 1 The applicants propose to delete point 15. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 16th minority proposal would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 204 - for, 229 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 17th minority proposal to Article. The applicant shall propose to delete point 16. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 17th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 205 - for, 232 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 18th minority proposal to Article. The applicant shall propose to delete point 17. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 18th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 204 - for, against - 226, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 19th minority proposal to Article. The applicant shall propose to delete point 18. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 19th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 202 - for, 231 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We will first consider the 21st minority proposal, whose acceptance or rejection will decide on other minority proposals. In the 21st minority proposal to Article. The applicant shall propose to delete points 19 and 20. The adoption of this minority proposal will result in the unobtrusiveness of minority proposals 20 and 22. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 21st minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 205 was in favor, against - 232, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 20th minority proposal to Article. The applicant shall propose to delete point 19. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 20th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 204 was for, against - 224, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 22nd minority proposal to Article. The applicant shall propose to delete point 20. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 22nd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 205 - for, 232 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected minority proposals. It's rape, not law enforcement. In the 23rd minority proposal to Article. The applicant shall propose to delete point 24. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 23rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 205 was for, 231 against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. Your marshal, this has nothing to do with the bill. In the 24th minority proposal to Article. The applicant shall propose to delete point 25. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 24th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. For - 203, 231 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 25th minority proposal to Article. The applicant shall propose to delete point 26. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 25th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 205 was for, 230 against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 26th minority proposal to Article. The applicant shall propose to delete point 27. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 26th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 204 was for, against - 233, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 27th minority proposal to Article. The applicant shall propose to delete points 28 and 29. The adoption of this proposal will render the 2nd amendment and the 28th minority proposal futile. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 27th minority request will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 204 was for, against - 233, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 28th minority proposal to Article. The applicant shall propose to delete point 29. The adoption of this proposal will render the 2nd amendment futile. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 28th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 204 was for, 232 against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the second amendment to the article. The applicant shall propose an amendment to point 29. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. It was 26, 409 against, 10 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 29th minority proposal to Article. The applicant shall propose to delete point 31. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 29th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 202 was for, against - 231, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 30th minority proposal to Article. The applicant shall propose to delete point 32. The adoption of this proposal will result in the nullity of the 3rd amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 30th minority request will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 204 was for, against - 229, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the third amendment to the article. The applicant shall propose an amendment to point 32. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 26 was for, 409 - against, with a hold of 10. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 31st minority proposal to Article. The applicant shall propose to delete point 34. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 31st minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 205 was in favor, 232 against, with a hold of 10. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 32nd minority proposal to Article. The applicant shall propose to delete point 35. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 32nd minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 204 was in favor, 233 against, with a hold of 10. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 33rd minority proposal to Article. The applicant shall propose to delete point 36. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 33rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 203 was for, 233 against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 34th minority proposal to Article. The applicant shall propose to delete point 37. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 34th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 204 was for, 231 against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 35th minority proposal to Article. The applicant shall propose to delete point 38. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 35th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 203 was for, 233 against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 36th minority proposal to Article. 2 The applicants propose to delete point 1. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 36th minority request will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 205 was for, 231 against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 37th minority proposal to Article. The applicant shall propose to delete point 2. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 37th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 204 was for, 230 against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 38th minority proposal to Article. The applicant shall propose to delete point 3. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 38th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 204 was for, 233 against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 39th minority proposal to Article. The applicant shall propose to delete point 4. The adoption of this minority proposal will make amendments 4, 5 and 12 irrelevant. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 39th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 203 was in favor, 233 against, with a hold of 10. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 4th amendment to the article. 2 applicants shall propose an amendment to point 4. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. It was 255, 180 against, holding ten. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 2 applicants shall propose an amendment to point 4. This amendment is combined with the 12th amendment. We will vote on them together. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th and 12th amendments will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 254 was for, against - 184, 10 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 40th minority proposal to Article. 2 The applicants propose to delete point 6. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 40th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 205 was for, 233 against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 41st minority proposal to Article. The applicant shall propose to delete point 7. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 41st request from the minority, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 205 was for, 232 against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 42nd minority proposal to Article. The applicant shall propose to delete points 8 and 9. The adoption of this minority proposal will result in the nullity of the 6th amendment and the 43rd minority proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 42nd minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 205 was in favor, against - 233, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 6th amendment to the article. 2 applicants propose an amendment to point 8. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 31 was for, against - 406, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 43rd minority proposal to Article. 2 The applicants propose to delete point 9. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the 43rd minority request would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 205 was in favor, against - 233, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 44th minority proposal to Article. The applicant shall propose to delete point 10. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 44th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 204 was for, 233 against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 45th minority proposal to Article. The applicant shall propose to delete point 1. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 45th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 202 was in favor, 233 against, with a hold of 10. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 46th minority proposal to Article. The applicant shall propose to delete point 3. The adoption of this proposal will render the 7th amendment futile. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 46th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 205 was in favor, against - 233, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 7th amendment to the article. The applicants shall propose an amendment to point 3. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 26 was for, against - 412, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th amendment to the article. The applicant shall propose an amendment to Article 3 (3). 37 § 2 of the new wording of paragraphs 2 and 3. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 279 was for, 159 against, 10 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 47th minority proposal to Article. The applicant shall propose to delete point 4. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 47th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 204 was for, 232 against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 48th minority proposal to Article. The applicant shall propose to delete point 6. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen is in favour of the 48th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 205 was for, 232 against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 49th minority application, the applicant shall propose to delete Article. 4. The adoption of this minority proposal will result in the nullity of minority proposals from the 50th to the 56th. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 49th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 205 was in favor, against - 232, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 50th minority proposal to Article. 4 The applicants propose to delete point 1. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 50th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 205 was for, 230 against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 51st minority proposal to Article. 4 The applicant shall propose to delete point 2. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 51st minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 206 was for, 230 against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 52nd minority proposal to Article. 4 The applicants propose to delete point 4. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 52nd minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 205 was for, against - 230, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 53rd minority proposal to Article. 4 The applicants propose to delete point 6. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 53rd minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 203 - for, 232 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 54th minority proposal to Article. 4 The applicants propose to delete point 7. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 54th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 203 for, 230 against, 10 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 55th minority proposal to Article. 4 The applicants propose to delete point 8. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 55th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 204 - for, 231 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 56th minority proposal to Article. 4 The applicants propose to delete point 11. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 56th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 205 - for, against - 231, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 57th minority application, the applicant shall propose to delete Article. 5. The adoption of this minority proposal will render the 9th amendment and the minority proposals 58th and 59th. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 57th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 205 - for, 232 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 58th minority proposal to Article. The applicant shall propose to delete point 1. The adoption of this minority proposal will result in the nullity of the 9th amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 58th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 205 - for, against - 231, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 9th amendment to the article. 5 applicants shall propose an amendment to point 1. We proceed to the vote, Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 22 was for, against - 416, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 59th minority proposal to Article. The applicant shall propose to delete point 2. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 59th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 204 - for, 232 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We'll consider 61 first. a minority request whose acceptance or rejection will decide on other minority proposals. In the 61st minority proposal to Article. 6 applicants propose to delete points 1, 3 and 4. The adoption of this proposal will render amendments 10 and 11 and minority proposals 60, 62 and 63 futile. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 61st minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 205 - for, 233 - against, with a hold of 10. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 60th minority proposal to Article. 6. The applicants propose to delete point 1. The adoption of this proposal will render amendment 10 irrelevant. We proceed to the vote, Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 60th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 205 - for, 233 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 10th amendment to the article. 6 applicants shall propose an amendment to point 1. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 22 for, against - 415, 10 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 62nd minority proposal to Article. 6 applicants propose to delete point 3. The adoption of this proposal will render amendment 11 irrelevant. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is the adoption of the 62nd minority proposal, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 205 - for, 233 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 11th amendment to the article. 6 applicants shall propose an amendment to point 3. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 21 - for, 416 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 63rd minority proposal to Article. 6 applicants propose to delete point 4. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 63rd minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 204 - for, 233 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 64th minority application, the applicant shall propose to delete Article. 7. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 64th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 203 - for, against - 235, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 65th minority application, the applicant shall propose to delete Article. 9. The adoption of this minority proposal will result in the nullity of minority proposals 66th and 67th. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 65th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 205 - for, 233 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 66th minority proposal to Article. The applicant shall propose to delete paragraph 9. 1. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 66th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 205 - for, 233 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 67th minority proposal to Article. 9. The applicants shall propose to delete the paragraph. 2. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 67th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 202 - for, 231 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 68th minority application, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 10. The adoption of this minority proposal will result in the unobjectity of minority proposals 69 and 70. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 68th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 204 - for, 233 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. 69. a minority proposal to the Article. 10 applicants propose to delete paragraph. 1. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of 69. Minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 203 - for, 232 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 70th minority proposal to Article. 10 applicants propose to delete paragraph. 2. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 70th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 204 - for, against - 232, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 71st minority application, the applicant shall propose to delete Article. 11. The adoption of this proposal will result in the nullity of minority proposals from 72nd to 75th. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 71st minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 204 was in favor, against - 231, 9 abstained. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 72nd minority proposal to Article. 11 The applicant shall propose to delete the paragraph. 1. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 72nd minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 204 was for, 232 against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 73rd minority proposal to Article. 11 The applicant shall propose to delete the paragraph. 2. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 73rd minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 204 was for, against - 230, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 74th minority proposal to Article. 11 The applicant shall propose to delete the paragraph. 3. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 74th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 205 was in favor, 233 against, holding off on 9. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 75th minority proposal to Article. 11 The applicant shall propose to delete the paragraph. 4. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 75th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 202 was for, 232 against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 76th minority application, the applicant shall propose to delete Article. 12. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 76th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 205 was in favor, against - 231, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 77th minority application, the applicant shall propose to delete Article. 13. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 77th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 204 was for, 233 against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 78th minority application, the applicant shall propose to delete Article. 14. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 78th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 203 was for, 231 against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 79th minority proposal, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 16. The adoption of this proposal will render the 80th minority proposal irrelevant. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 79th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 204 was for, 233 against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 80th minority proposal to Article. 16 applicants propose that the Act should enter into force on 1 January 2024. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 80th minority request, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 204 was for, 233 against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print 107, along with the amendments adopted, will be willing to raise your hand and press the button. Your marshal, questions. Scandal! Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Some of the MPs are hitting the desktops.]] Your marshal, this is outrageous. Your marshal, but to the full... 448 Members voted. 233 - for, 205 - against, 10 stopped. [[Long-term applause]] Bravo! The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on the system of common courts, the Law on the Supreme Court and some other laws. Some Members chant: Shame! Some Members chant: Constitution. The constitution in your mouth is blasphemy. I'm calling a 10-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 mins 14 h 17 min 26]] I'm reopening the session. Member with a formal application? You're welcome. May I? You're welcome. We're in a bit of a hurry. Before the time, because there were no questions. Mr. Marshal... We're in a bit of a hurry.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u250	Dear Marshal, I was hoping to make this formal application when you will be here, Marshal Witek, who during the vote before the break talked about the honour of Poland, about respecting Polish law in the Polish parliament. I wanted to ask for a break and a convent of the Senior Convention at the time, because, ladies and gentlemen, we adopted once again - but this was the first time with Marshal Witek - a very important, political bill that talks about the status of judges in Poland, and we could not ask a question, even during the last vote, when the question could always be asked. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say that I would like to ask you to reflect a little bit. Don't go on Marek Kuchciński's road, or you'll end up exactly the same. In this way, an important law in Poland is simply not allowed to be passed. And then it is not allowed to invoke the Polish constitution and the honor of the Polish state, because it is not with the constitution, nor with honor, nor with the state of law... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] Go to Brussels.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u251	We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: Election of the Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal (Prints Nos 50 and 88). On the basis of the article. Paragraph 194. 1 Constitution of the Republic of Poland and Art. 2 (2) 2 Act on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, as well as Article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and paragraph 1. Point 3 (1) in conjunction with Article. Article 26 (2) (b) 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, a group of Members has nominated Mr Rafał Wojciechowski as Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. I ask Mr Michael to drink for the performance of the WW. candidacy.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u252	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! It is my great pleasure to present the CV of the candidate for the Constitutional Tribunal of Mr Rafał Wojciechowski, PhD in habilitation of legal sciences, Professor of the University of Wrocław. There's no tribunal. Rafał Wojciechowski was born on 5 September 1969 in Warsaw. In 1988 he graduated from the 14th High School in Wrocław. Between 1988 and 1993 he studied law at the University of Wroclaw... In May 1993, he completed his studies and since 1 October of that year became a scientific and educational worker at the Faculty of Law and Administration of the home university. Between 1994 and 1998 Rafał Wojciechowski held a solicitor's application at the District Chamber of Legal Counsels in Wrocław. In 1998 he passed the bar exam and was included in the list of legal advisers led by this House. In 2002 he defended his doctoral dissertation and in 2010 he obtained a degree of a doctoral degree in legal sciences. He is the author of two monographs, an editor of two sets of scientific texts written by many authors and author or co-author of several dozen scientific articles. He participated as a referee in numerous national and international conferences. A particular scientific interest of the candidate after obtaining a doctoral degree was aroused by amicable judiciary. He devoted several publications to the history of contemporary arbitration. He is a member of the editorial college of the quarterly.Arbitration and Mediation. In 2010 he was included in the list of arbitrators recommended by the Court of Arbitration at the National Chamber of Commerce in Warsaw. In 2011, the Minister of Justice appointed Rafał Wojciechowski as a notary in Wrocław. Since 2013, the candidate has been employed as an extraordinary professor. Since 2014, he has been head of the European Legal Culture Lab at the Faculty of Law, Administration and Economics of the University of Wrocław. Four PhDs were created and defended as part of the work of the studio. The candidate is also the editor of the magazine "Folia Iuridica" at the University of Wroclaw, published by the Faculty of Law, Administration and Economics of the University of Wroclaw. Rafał Wojciechowski is a member of the Polish Economic Association for Law Analysis. In April 2016, Prof. Wojciechowski was elected as pro-Rector of Student Affairs at the University of Wrocław for a term of office from 1 September 2016 to 31 August 2020. Between 2016 and 2019 the Minister of Science and Higher Education has appointed him as a member of expert teams several times. In one of them, the candidate served as president and two as vice-president. Both distinguished legal knowledge and extensive scientific experience in the field of law indicate that Prof. Rafał Wojciechowski is a good candidate for judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u253	Thank you, sir. I ask Mr Kamil Bortniczuk to present the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u254	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Justice and Human Rights at its meeting of 19 December 2019 welcomed the appointment of Prof. Rafał Wojciechowski as judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] You didn't have a real professor? Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u255	Thank you, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to take the floor on your candidacy? No one's checking in. Mr Robert Winnicki. So I'm opening a discussion. I propose that the Sejm listen to 2 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle in the discussion on this item. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. You're welcome, sir. How many minutes? Two minutes. Can you be more specific?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u256	Mr. Marshal!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u257	Excuse me, sir, because Mr Arkadiusz Myrch has also come forward. There it is. Time - 2 minutes, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u258	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are voting on subsequent amendments to the Constitutional Court on a special day. Today, a chapter of the political looting of the Polish justice system closed. The Supreme Court and the Supreme Administrative Court have become the political prey of Mr. Ziebra and Mr. Duda. But this trial started just four years ago here in the Polish Parliament from the brutal assassination that PiS did on the Constitutional Tribunal. Who started it? It was then that PiS MEPs, the Polish government led by Prime Minister Beata Szydło, questioned the correct choice of three judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. Correct. The disgraceful resolutions followed... It was disgraceful what you did just before the end of your term of office. ...then at night, without cameras, without witnesses, in a sense of shame, President Duda took a vow from three understudys. Later, the Polish government blocked the publication of judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal and this was the beginning of a great drama that we are still observing today. Today, the Constitutional Court is not referred to as the bastion of civil rights and freedoms, it is referred to as the Novgorod Bastion. [[Applause]] Today, the Court is not referred to as the institution to which justice is sought, today it is referred to as the Court as the institution to which lunches are to be held. [[Applause]] You've made a social institution out of an institution of justice. I have a question for the candidate, although I wish he were with us today. Professor, with respect to your work, what's that for? Do you want to be court-martialed in court with the U.S. Attorney? [[Applause]] Would you like to make a friendly ruling with the Member who called the EU flag a rag... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u259	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Maria Żukowska, the Left Club. Thank you, sir. There you go, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u260	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, we had the opportunity to discuss Prof. Wojciechowski's candidate at the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, which was a nice change compared to previous candidates who did not answer any of our questions literally. I asked Professor Wojciechowski the following questions, which he answered in this way. I asked him how he understood art. 18 constitutions. Does he think it's a statutory definition of marriage? Prof. Wojciechowski answered yes to this question, although it is not a statutory definition as a live one. Regarding the neutrality of the worldview state, as well as the constitutional principle, he replied that he thought it was a matter of this, and I quote that it is impossible to ask who is which religion or religion. That's what Mr. Wojciechowski calls the definition of world view neutrality of the state. In the case of neo-KRS, Mr Wojciechowski's candidate believes that it was established in accordance with the constitution, that it could actually also be drawn. That would also be in line with the constitution, according to Professor Wojciechowski. On the primacy of European Union law over national law, Professor Wojciechowski believes that, I quote: the constitution dominates Poland. In the course of his speech, he proved that he certainly knows Roman law, he is a specialist here. In answer to every possible question, he referred to Roman law, although it had nothing to do with the question being asked. Unfortunately, we could see that he had no knowledge of international law. There is no knowledge or discernment in the case law of the TSUE. About the consent of laws with the Polish constitution. For these reasons and because we are waiting to be able to take a vow to the three elected final judges of the Constitutional Tribunal (the bell), on behalf of the club we bring... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u261	Mr Robert Winnicki, Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u262	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prof. Wojciechowski's candidacy is contrary to what we have recently voted on, a serious candidacy of a man with a recognised legal authority, not directly from a political party, such as the officers, which are Mr.Piotrowicz and Mr. Pawłowicz. Of course, some concern is that he is recommended by the Agreement, because I fear that there will again be some throwing at Reytan in matters completely unjust and undeserved, Mr. Vice Prime Minister. On the other hand, with regard to the merits of the case, the truth is that what is happening today around the Constitutional Tribunal and what is happening in connection with the judiciary, in connection with the Law on Courts, must be repeated, is a sovereign matter of the Republic of Poland. And what I have already said from this speaker today: the European Commission is wary of how Poles decide their affairs in this Parliament. Warehouse. [[Applause]] The Commission and Brussels are on the verge of this. That's one thing. Moscow. Go ahead. Secondly, it must be made clear and repeated here that in 2015 you found a boggy situation and in the Court, and in the judiciary, in all common courts, injustice, scandalous judgments, sentences which are delayed, slow. The problem is, instead of draining this swamp, you threw in your pipe, your stream, you threw in your share of it, and you think it's gonna smell good. It didn't start to smell good, and the chaos is getting worse. We need systemic judicial reforms, which unfortunately failed Law and Justice has not done for four years with all the instruments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u263	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Let's move on to the vote. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights welcomed Mr Rafał Wojciechowski's appointment as judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. In accordance with Article 26, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1, in conjunction with Article 1, Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, the Sejm shall elect the Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal by an absolute majority. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of choosing Mr Rafał Wojciechowski as judge of the Constitutional Tribunal will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The absolute majority is 217. For - 239, against - 190, three Members abstained. [[Applause]] The absolute majority elected Mr Rafał Wojciechowski as Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. We proceed with the examination of item 26 of the agenda: Indication of the members of the State Election Commission (print No 92). According to Art. 157 § Point 2 (3) of the Act The Sejm electoral code indicates seven members of the State Election Commission. I would remind you that candidates for members of the State Election Commission indicate parliamentary or parliamentary clubs, except that the number of these members must reflect proportionally the representation of parliamentary or parliamentary clubs in the Sejm, and that the number of members appointed as members of the State Election Commission from among those designated by one parliamentary or parliamentary club may not be more than three. On the basis of the article. Article 31b (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm Bureau of the Sejm have determined the following number of candidates for members of the State Election Commission submitted by individual clubs: - Parliamentary Club Law and Justice - three candidates, - Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens - two candidates, - Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left (Together, Democratic Left Alliance, Spring of Robert Biedron) - one candidate, - Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 - one candidate. Please take the floor of Mr Przemysław Czarnek to present the candidacy of Mr Zbigniew Cieślak, submitted by Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Time one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u264	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I have the honour of presenting Mr Zbigniew Cieślak's candidacy. Mr Zbigniew Cieślak was born on 11 February 1954 in Warsaw. He graduated from the Faculty of Law and Administration at the University of Warsaw on 21 June 1977. From 2006 to 2015, Mr Zbigniew Cieślak was a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. In 2014, he was appointed as a member of the State Election Commission. Currently he is Deputy Chairman of the PKW. Mr Zbigniew Cieślak is a good candidate for the position of member of the State Election Commission. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo! Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u265	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Jarosław Krajewski to present the candidacy of Mr Dariusz Lasocki, submitted by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Jarek, two minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u266	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! It is my honor to present Mr Dariusz Lasocki's candidacy. Dariusz Lasocki is a legal adviser, a member of the District Chamber of Legal Counsels in Warsaw, a councillor of the city. Warsaw, a graduate of the Faculty of Law and Administration of the University of Warsaw. He doesn't belong to any political party. Bravo! Since 2010 local councilman - councilman of the district Prague-South, then councilman of the city. Warsaw, since 2018 He published, among others. in the Rzeczpospolita, the International Political Review, the Business Pulsa. Both education and extensive professional experience... Thank you. ...this candidate indicates that Mr Dariusz Lasocki will be a good candidate for the State Election Commission. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u267	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Łukasz Schreiber in order to present the candidacy of Mr Arkadiusz Damian Pikulik, submitted by the Parliamentary Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u268	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I am honored on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present the candidacy of Mr Arkadiusz Damian Pikulik. Born May 25, 1983 in Pile, lawyer, entrepreneur. He started his career as a lawyer employed in law firms and commercial law companies. He runs a law firm. In 2007, he graduated from the Faculty of Law and Administration at Nicolaus Copernicus University. In 2011, he completed his daily doctoral studies at the same university. In addition, he is a graduate of postgraduate studies, a member of the Polish Criminal Society, a forensic expert, a member of the Regional Bar Council in Toruń. I would like to point out to the High House that the Law and Justice have presented three candidates: a judge, a legal adviser, a lawyer, and this is also the fulfilment of this good electoral reform, three candidates, four of which represent the opposition, so that I hope you can appreciate it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u269	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Robert Kropiwnicki to present the nominations of Mr Ryszard Balicki and Mr Konrad Składowski, submitted by the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition - Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u270	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present two very good candidates to the State Election Commission. But we also need to remind you, as regards the system that you changed in that term, that we are moving away from the judicial system, and that we are moving on to the political-official system. It is a much worse system and is widely evaluated throughout Europe. Always officials... political supervision of key electoral authorities is usually much weaker and organisationally worse than the judicial dimension, because when judges take positions... Mr Whether you present your candidacy or... Yeah, yeah. I'm asking for candidacy, not discussion right now, okay? You're welcome to apply... Don't review, Marshal. What's this? ...if you have a candidacy. You're welcome. If your marshal wants me to talk less, don't interrupt me. Then proceed to your candidacy. Please don't disturb me. I also express the views of the candidates and I think it's worth knowing that we recommend very good specialists who know that the judicial system, i.e.... Names. ...people who should oversee the electoral system, who are not personally interested in candidacy and have no connection with political parties or political institutions such as the Sejm, are much more meaningful and much healthier for democracy. E.g. That's why we've been able to make so many choices in a meaningful way, and there's never been any serious protests and complaints about the electoral system... Jokes. ...because it was supervised by the judges. Today you're experimenting and it's very, very dangerous. Mr President, do you understand what I am saying to you? We point to two very good people... Don't lecture us. ...we point to law professors, we point to experts in the field of electoral law, people who have experience in... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] If you don't scream, it'll be shorter. You're in a hurry, and you're prolonging it. Prof. Dr. Hab. Richard Balicki is a constitutionalist employed at the University of Wrocław. It accounts for about 140 publications, including electoral law publications, such as the change of the rules for the formation of electoral districts in the local elections in the amendment of the 2018 electoral code, the restrictions on the freedom to campaign in the light of the regulation of the 'electoral code' and a number of others. He is a man who knows very well about the organisation of electoral systems and the work of public institutions. Our second candidate, Prof. Konrad Składowski, PhD in Habilitation at the University of Łódź, professor of the University of Łódź, gained his grinds in terms of electoral law at the Center for Election Studies of the Faculty of Law and Administration of the University of Łódź. It is a very modern institution, which was created by Prof. Krzysztof Skotnicki in cooperation with the State Election Commission and which has been involved in monitoring electoral systems and electoral rights until today. Konrad Składowski is a person who works closely with this centre and is his expert. Dr. hab. Konrad Składowski is the author and co-author of numerous scientific works and publications in the field of electoral law, such as the electoral codex, the commentary on the changes in 2018. You should read this comment, because this is a very good commentary, which is unfortunately quite critical of what the High House has done, as well as reducing the number of terms of office when it comes to elections for presidents, mayors and voivodships, and the basic concepts of electoral law. A number of publications which show that these two people are very well acquainted with electoral law and recommend that they be a member of the State Election Commission and independent supervision of the organisation of elections. Because it is important to remember that the National Election Commission organises elections from the lowest levels of the municipal population to parliamentary and presidential elections. It was wrong for us to leave the judicial system, but as already, we need to identify the independents who have a great deal of work, and such people have been identified by the Civic Coalition. I ask kindly for the support of these candidates. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u271	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski in order to present the candidacy of Mr Liviusz Laska, submitted by the Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u272	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to report to Dr. Livius Laska, a member of the State Election Commission, who was born on 22 June 1976. In 2000 he graduated from the Faculty of Law and Administration of Adam Mickiewicz University in Poznań, and in 2001 he graduated from international relations, a specialty of east studies. He is also a graduate of the University of Kiel, where he graduated from law school. In 2011 he received a doctorate in law from the University of Warsaw. Between 2001 and 2005, he held a bar application completed with a bar exam. Since 2004 he has been a sworn translator of the German language. Between 2005 and 2016, he was a member of the State Examination Board for the juror's examination and a deputy chairman of the committee in 2005 and 2013. Between 2016 and 2018, Liviusz Laska served as Deputy Chairman of the Labour Law Codification Commission. Dr Liviusz Laska is also a lawyer with many years of experience in legal proceedings in matters of labour law, collective labour law and administrative law. Since 2018 he has been an expert in the Polish Trade Union Agreement. He has extensive experience in legislative work. He is the author of draft laws, legal opinions on constitutional law. Dr. Liviusz Laska has been a lawyer since 2005. He was a lecturer, among others. at the University of Warsaw, the University of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński, the Academy of Finance, the District Bar Council in Warsaw. Between 2014 and 2018, he was the President of the Foundation for Civil Rights. I ask the High House and your marshal to have Mr Livius Laska accepted and elected as a member of the State Election Commission. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u273	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Stanisław Tyszka to present the candidacy of Mr Maciej Miłosz submitted by the parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u274	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 I have the honour and pleasure to present to the High House the candidacy of Mr Maciej Miłosz as a member of the State Election Commission. Counselor Maciej Miłosz is currently a legal counsel and not a professional lawyer. He previously served as Judge of the Court of State by the will of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland of the 8th term of office. He's partyless, and he's never been a member of a political party. Born 18 October 1980 in Lublin. In 1999 he graduated from the 3rd High School. Lublin Union in Lublin. Between 1999 and 2004, he studied law at the Faculty of Law, Canon Law and Administration of the Catholic University of Lublin and obtained a Master's degree in law in 2004 with a very good result. Between 2006 and 2010 he held a lawyer's application in the Bar Association in Lublin. Since 2010 after taking the bar exam, he continued to pursue his profession as a lawyer and then legal counsel in Lublin, Stalowa Wola and Warsaw. He has extensive experience in legal advice for broad economic turnover. He was an alternate member of the Audit Committee of the Bar Association in Lublin. From 2004 to 2007, he was a PhD student at Professor Richard Wolmell's seminar on the comparative law of the American and European countries. Currently attending the seminar Dr. hab. Mark Dobrowolski with constitutional law at the Catholic University of Lublin. In 2003, he received a scholarship from the University of Ghent organized by the Ministry for the Flemish Union of the Kingdom of Belgium. At the turn of 2004 and 2005, he held an internship in the European Parliament in Brussels and Strasbourg. In 2005, he graduated from the postgraduate Center for American Law, including the Chicago-Kent College of Law at the Illinois Institute of Technology and the Catholic University of Lublin. Between 2005 and 2006, the assistant Center for Advanced Life Skills at the research facility of KUL with the participation of Temple University. In 2018, he received the title of Executive Master of Business Administration. In the past, a lawyer at the Foundation Institute for State Law in Lublin. Member of many associations and their statutory authorities. Korporant, reactivator, President and Vice President of the Concordia Academic Corporation in Lublin founded in 1922. Between 2010 and 2013, he was a member of the Management Board, then chairman of the Audit Committee, and since 2016 Vice President of the Polish Academic Corporations Association in Warsaw. For many years, pro bono activities have also been sacrificed. Counselor Maciej Miłosz meets the requirements set out in the electoral code, i.e. he has the qualifications equivalent to the qualifications of a judge who had previously served in the Court of State. I am convinced that both theoretical knowledge and extensive professional experience make Mr Maciej Miłosz the right person to serve as a member of the State Election Commission. I ask the High House to accept this candidacy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u275	Thank you. As we have reports of those who wish to speak on this issue, I am opening a discussion. First, Mr Robert Kropiwnicki. One minute. He resigned. Thank you. As second Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski. He's quitting, too. Thank you very much. According to Art. Article 31b (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 9 in conjunction with Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall indicate the members of the State Election Commission by an absolute majority. According to Art. Article 31b (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 8 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, the appointment of members of the State Election Commission shall take place jointly, unless the Sejm decides otherwise. I propose that the Sejm appoint the members of the State Election Commission in a joint vote. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the joint vote on the designation of the members of the State Election Commission. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of identifying the members of the State Election Commission, according to the list of candidates in print 92, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The absolute majority is 216. For -423, against -8, no one stopped. By an absolute majority, the Sejm indicated members of the State Election Commission: Mr Ryszard Balicki, Mr Zbigniew Cieślak, Mr Liviusz Laska, Mr Dariusz Lasocki, Mr Maciej Miłosz, Mr Arkadiusz Pikulik and Mr Konrad Składowski. We proceed with the examination of item 29 of the agenda: First reading of the draft resolution presented by the Sejm Bureau on the establishment of the Polish Inter-Paramental Union Group (print No 109). High Izbo! In line with previous practice at the beginning of the new term of office of the Sejm, it is necessary to reactivate the Polish Inter-Paramental Union Group. In accordance with the Statute of the Interparliamentary Union, the entire parliament or national group representing this Parliament may be a member of this organisation. In the previous terms of office of the Sejm and the Senate were represented in the Interparliamental Union by the National Group. This group, known as the Polish Interparliamentary Union Group, is reactivated at the beginning of each term of the Sejm and the Senate under the relevant resolutions of the Sejm and the Senate respectively. The Bureau of the Sejm proposes that all Members of the Sejm of the 9th term of office be members of the Polish Interparliamentary Union Group. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak at the first reading of the draft resolution? Mr Grzegorz Braun, near the Confederation, came forward. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] I'm opening a discussion. One minute, sir. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u276	God bless you again. How's it going with the Noble? How's the Noble? Not about that. You are voting on matters you have a vague idea of or have no idea of. The founder of this organization at the end of the 19th century was Cremer, the secretary of the British Section of Marx and the International. These are the roots of this organization. Minister Macierewicz yawns widely, but did not look at the website of this organization, on which is the whole globalist agenda. We have the refugees of the invaders there, of course, as an eye in our head, we have a rainbow revolution there, [[Applause]] the lack of femininity in parliamentary bodies. The whole globalist agenda. And so... We're polonizing. That's where I'm going with this. If you can get me an editorial on this website, then I'm coming in, but so far, the Confederacy (Bell) is distancing itself. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u277	The discussion is closed. I propose that the Sejm immediately proceed to the second reading of the draft resolution. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to second reading. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak? Member again. I'm opening a discussion. Half a minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u278	When the European Union project was still small, seedy, it didn't smell like Eurocolchoz yet, it wasn't totaliztic for the measure it was achieving today, the measure of absurdity of course, then some thought it was some nice international little Jewish, a little masons, a little Eurocommunist. Everyone thought it was so innocent. And here today Leviathan, ladies and gentlemen, pulls out the limb or tail of a waving and sweeps Polish sovereignty. Don't go into projects that fall far from the Masonic priorities of pacifism, globalism. Don't go into these projects that are seemingly innocent and co-creating... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u279	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We proceed to the vote on the whole draft resolution. Who among you and your fellow Members is to adopt in full the draft resolution in print no. 109, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. For - 410, there was no one against, there was no five. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the establishment of the Polish Inter-Paramental Union Group. We proceed with the examination of item 27 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (Print No 102). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on the proposals put forward? No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print 102 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 404 Members voted. For - 397, there was one and six abstentions. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 mins 03 hours 18 min 04]] I'm reopening the session. High Izbo! That's where we've exhausted the agenda. 2nd meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I would like to inform you that one Member has come forward to make his statements. Do any of you and your fellow Members wish to make any further statements? You're still an MP. Okay, so two people... Me too. Three people. I consider the list of Members of this House to be closed. Mr Dariusz Bąk, Law and Justice will be the first to make a statement. You're welcome, sir. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u280	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! It is good that much is said about the commemorative triumph of Poles over Bolsheviks in 1920. It is most common to mention a triumphal arch to commemorate that event. It seems, however, that we need a deeper thought so that we do not make a mistake which would be a sign of lack of gratitude, or at least a mistake of flattening our own history. The battle for Warsaw reminds us very much of the battle of Vienna. There was a threat to Europe by the Turks, here the Bolsheviks. And there, and here the winners are Poles. Or just? Polish king John III Sobieski, after defeating the Turks, did not attribute victory to himself. His paraphrase of Gaius Julius Caesar is widely known: Veni, vidi, vici. After the Viennese victory, our king will write in a letter to Pope Innocent: Venimus, vidimus, Deus vicit - we have arrived, we have seen, God has won. Thus the king's modesty saved Europe from Islamic fanaticism in 1683. The king was accused of not using Vienna Victoria to make Poland the dominant country in Europe. However, in his wisdom he preferred to lose the diplomatic battle and satisfied himself with the victory in the battle for Vienna and the entire continent. He was able to discover the path that the Lord of Acts is setting. It's worse with us and the miracle of the Vistula. From the beginning, they didn't want to think that something special had happened here, too. We won again, not by force, but by spirit. Many testimonies have been gathered on this subject. Polish soldiers were not the only ones talking about it. I will quote some quotations: The Bolsheviks who were taken into captivity told that they saw a priest in chimney and with a cross in their hand, and over him the Virgin Mary. It was the Divine Mother in the sky seen by hundreds of Bolsheviks, her appearance in the sky surrounded by husaria, the Polish victorious army, which under Vienna with the slogan: In the name of Mary the pagan Packs unleashed, caused fear, terror and panic, which could not be described. These are quotes from the card diary. Kakowski and Fr.Józef Bartosik. That's how the end of the Bolshevik march on the conquest of the world was said to participate in those events. So who won such a spectacular victory in the fight for Warsaw in 1920? The nation exerted all its strength, it is impossible to ignore the merits of Marshal Józef Piłsudski, general staff, commanders, soldiers, all the defenders of the homeland, but then the whole nation united in a powerful prayer, calling to its queen for salvation and to God for mercy over the threatened Poland. The nation prayed a miracle. Will the triumphal arch take into account these two factors of victory: human and dominant - divine? Will we continue to pretend that enlightened Europeans should not be told about miracles? Is such a degradation suitable for believers and practitioners? Or maybe one of the monument designers will be inspired by a painting that was painted on the wall of Castel Gandolfo chapel, depicting a miracle on the Vistula? The painting was painted at the order of the nuncio during the apostolic Achille Ratti in Poland, who did not leave Warsaw in 1920 in the days of danger and who was elected Pope took the name Pius XI. You can see soldiers fighting there, Father Shelley, and heaven intervention. Maybe in this spring and in this victory you need to look for the key to solving our difficult situation? The power of the spirit is always higher than all things. The fire that smolders in the nation, 100 years it won't cool off, and just isn't that fire, right, the good of the nation and the country still in the circle of our dreams? Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u281	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Elżbieta Płonka, the Law and Justice, to deliver... Excuse me, Mr Lisiecki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u282	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Soon Warsaw will face increases for the collection of waste adopted by the ruling Civic Coalition. The increase, of course, was offered by President Rafał Trzaskowski. Who's to blame for this situation? According to President Trzaskowski, only the Government of Law and Justice is responsible for the scale of the increase in waste that is now being faced by cities and municipalities across the country. Well, let's look at how the existing municipal waste collection system in Warsaw worked and what is the real reason for the increases. In July 2012, the provisions that waste and various household waste were owned by municipalities entered into force. The capital city of Warsaw was then divided into 9 areas in which the waste was to be collected by companies selected in the tender. The whole operation involved the introduction of trash export charges to be counted by a person in multi-site buildings. It turned out that such a system meant a raise for households. This system proved not only expensive but also inefficient. One of the companies serving three of these areas in the summer months stopped picking up garbage on time. According to the possibilities offered by law, municipalities can do a few things with municipal waste. The most desirable situation that local authorities should seek is the creation of a system of municipal waste treatment facilities, commonly referred to as recycling. Unfortunately, most of the waste from Warsaw does not go into this system. For six years, sir. Warsaw, which owns its own company, MPO, did not create its own municipal waste treatment system, such as: He's in Cracow. Another possibility that Warsaw could benefit from is the construction of a modern waste incineration plant. However, M.S. Warsaw has not been able to implement even such a project for many years. And the current waste incineration plant is unable to meet the needs of the city. The least desirable and at the same time the most expensive form of waste management they're being stored. Warsaw has chosen this form of waste management. On the other hand, one of the main locations where Warsaw's waste was exported, or the landfill of waste Radiowo in the municipality of Stare Babice, was closed by the decision of the Regional Environmental Inspector. This decision was also upheld by the administrative court. In particular, the inhabitants of Bemów, Żoliborz and Bielan complain about this landfill because in the case of wind, the smells from the landfill are felt in these districts. What does all this mean? As of 2012 M.S. Warsaw did not build an incinerator that would allow the incineration of waste. Since 2012, most of the rubbish, contrary to the recommendations, has landed in landfills, and only a small amount of it has entered the municipal waste treatment system. In many countries of the world, municipalities earn money in the processing of waste, especially plastics, but unfortunately in the European capital, Warsaw, President Trzaskowski decided to reach into Warsaw's pockets to cover the shortcomings related to office failure in terms of waste management. President Trzaskowski claims that mine is responsible for the increase in waste collection fees. increase of the Marshal's environmental charge. Since the authorities of Warsaw, instead of creating a system for the treatment of municipal waste, were only dealing with the disposal of garbage in neighbouring municipalities, it is not surprising that the Marshal's fee will affect Warsaw. This can be avoided, but we need to process waste, not store it, because the Marshal's fee increases not for the collection of waste - it does not increase for the treatment of waste, it does not increase for the incineration of waste - it is growing for the storage. Moreover, what happened to the money that Warsaw pays to the city's cash register for the export of municipal waste? After all, for 6 years Warsaw had to collect several hundred million zlotys for fees. Where's the money? What happened to them? Couldn't the money have been used to start building a recycling system? So the reason for the increase is not the government's actions, which must adapt the waste management to EU standards, but long-term non-work, laziness and negligence of the authorities of Warsaw. Mr. President Trzaskowski, instead of complaining about the government and instead of raising the prices of garbage collection, should present a plan for the creation of a recycling system for Warsaw as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u283	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Elżbieta Płonka, Law and Justice. Please make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u284	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we adopted a law on the system of common courts in the framework of the reform of justice in Poland. I would like to address all those in the profession of justice - but it is the third power, and there is still legislative and executive power. Many judges, as the present time shows, are trying to put third power over the first and second constitutional power. I, as a medical doctor and a politician, do not understand this exceptional situation created by groups of judges creating state rules in the state. In doing my job, I am not excluded from taking responsibility in my conduct for human health and life, I cannot impose my views or decisions on a sick person, nor am I responsible for the delict that I must remember. How is it that a judge, a prosecutor, not to mention a lawyer, can follow his own rules towards human affairs that are even more important than health? There are times when people are harmed by the justice system, are deprived of their health and their means of life as a result of unjust judgments, and even die because they have been severely harmed by such judgments. What is the responsibility of these people for judgments against justice? Does the question of the judge's conscience even make sense here? Unfortunately, leaving the justice system without decommunization and the lack of laws governing the judges makes it cry out from the Polish street for rescue, for the state of law. The exceptional irregularity in this dimension is evidenced, among others. Supreme Court ruling of 5 March 2004 on the appropriateness of excluding a judge from a request for bias, Art. 49 Code of Civil Procedure. The judge's explanations are dealt with by three judges, colleagues from the same court. These explanations are all credibility. And the statement: the judge's moral authority speaks for the credibility of the complex explanation: self-esteem. It is indeed a unique self-authority, as in the caste of the Olympic gods. Who among those who enter the courtroom for justice can count on it if the judge is infallible if he is sure of his undisputed decision? Sentence falls within the jurisdiction of the judge's self-authority. Appeals against such a sentence have no chance of justice. Many disadvantaged people in Poland are looking for justice and are calling for the government to limit the self-government and hermetization of caste and the obstruction of judges. This is a great problem for the courts, and it is sometimes followed by incorrect decisions by the prosecutors due to their personal dependence. The Government of the United Right is obliged to make systemic changes in the name of democratically granted power by Poles waiting for justice may be more than daily bread. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u285	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u286	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, at our meeting, we adopted a draft resolution on the commemoration of the 80th anniversary of the first expulsions of Poles by the Germans during the Second World War. And very well, because such dates should be remembered and such things should be worshipped and praised... I'm sorry, not to praise you, but to remember them, because they merge us and make us stronger as a nation. But I, as the grandson and son of the Sibiraks, have the duty of telling and reminding Members of the Committee on Culture and Media and all Members of the Republic that on 10 February 1940 the first exports of Polish citizens to Sibir began and that in 2 months' time the 80th anniversary of these first exports will be. From this stand, I therefore ask Members to honor with the same resolution the memory of the people who have been deported to this inhuman land, those who have returned, as well as those who have stayed there. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u287	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u288	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will speak very briefly, as I promised your marshal, for one minute. I hope I don't pass that time. I am the last speaker today, and from this tribune I would like to wish all Poles a wish, ensuring that this year, which is coming, will be for us a year of work and efforts for the welfare of every Pole. I direct them to all Poles, to those located both in Poland and abroad, scattered around the world, to those who, as repatriates, come to us, to those who use the Polish Charter, to those who live abroad. I firmly believe that not only on my behalf, but also on my entire Parliament's behalf, I wish that these beautiful holidays which are coming will pass away in peace, joy, such a family joy that they will be a beautiful time and that this year, which is ahead of us, a year of events of historical importance for Poland, but above all for each of us a year, because the next year of our lives, and life brings things, good things, but maybe and will be different clouds... I wish these clouds were as little as possible and joy as possible. I wish this, as some say, 60 million Poles, nearly 40 million in Poland and nearly 20 million outside the borders. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u289	Thank you. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u290	I am very happy and congratulate the Prime Minister on his great success in the international arena. At the Brussels European Council, Member States reached agreement on achieving climate neutrality by 2050. The negotiations of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki were a great success. Poland as the only country of the Union will not be obliged to achieve climate neutrality by 2050. Our country will reach it at the rate that finance and economic development will allow us to do. The planned acceleration was to be huge, so Poland would not be able to withstand the imposed pace of technological development - Poland has a different energy structure from other countries of the European Union - and these economic conditions. During the summit, Poland also negotiated around EUR 100 billion for the energy transformation fund. We are very pleased, Prime Minister, and once again congratulate you on the next EU success that has been won for Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u291	Declaration on International Solidarity Day. In today's statement, I would like to draw attention to the International Solidarity Day, which was celebrated on 20 December, which has become a permanent calendar by establishing it as a result of the work of the United Nations General Assembly in 2005. The overarching objective of the International Solidarity Day is to highlight the need to combat poverty and promote social development in the countries of the global South, especially among the poorest groups. Solidarity can be defined differently today. It functions in several meanings and messages. However, it must be borne in mind that solidarity and the spirit of sharing with others are among the main values on which human relations in the 21st century should be based, especially in these times of globalisation and competition between individual countries. Human solidarity is essential to combat poverty and inequality in the world. The main aim of all Member States should be to reduce poverty, hunger and environmental degradation and to improve health care. For this reason, and on the occasion of the upcoming Christmas season, it is worth to give some thought and at the same time call for unity in diversity and concern for the most vulnerable groups.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u292	Dear Marshal! I declare that, contrary to the erroneous record on the Sejm's website, I took part in the 23rd vote. I voted against. The error in the record came from the fact that I voted not from my place, because I stood in line for the entries for questions. This is a mistake concerning the voting device. I ask for a review in the system, because I do not want to bear the political consequences of the alleged non-vote when, in fact, the equipment was blamed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-20-sejm-02-3.u293	Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 2nd session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda for the 3rd session of the Sejm, convened on 8 and 9 January 2020, was served to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 18 min 22]]
