ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u1	I open, ladies and gentlemen, the 70th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I hereby appoint Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk and Senator Waldemar Sługocki as the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, on 15 February 2019 Jerzy Jushkiewicz, Senator I and 2nd term of office, Member of the Committee on Immigration and Poles Abroad, Constitutional Commission, National Defence Committee and Committee on Foreign Affairs died. On 16 February 2019 Franciszek Połomski, senator of the second term of office, deputy chairman of the Constitutional Commission, member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Constitutional Commission of the National Assembly died. I ask you to celebrate a minute of silence in the memory of the dead senators. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] [[Give them eternal rest, Lord.]] [[They answer, "Let eternal light shine upon them."]] [[Let them rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] On 21 February 2019 Bishop Alojza Orszulik, Bishop of the Slavic Diocese, died, a participant in the Round Table, a bachelor of the Order of the White Eagle. I ask you to commemorate a minute of silence in the memory of the late Bishop. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord.]] [[The gathered answer, "Let eternal light shine upon him."]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] Thank you. I would like to inform you that the Sejm at its seventy-seventh meeting on 20 February 2019 adopted the majority of the Senate's amendments notified to the Law amending the Law on Industrial Property. At the same meeting, on 22 February, the Sejm adopted all the amendments tabled by the Senate to the Act amending the Act on the limitation of business activity by persons performing public functions and the Act on the National Bank of Poland and to the Act on the amendment of the Act on Foreigners and some other laws. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the first 70th Senate meeting, in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, are prepared to be made available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to it, it will be adopted at the next sitting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that items be considered from the first to the seventh draft agenda, despite the fact that the committee's reports have been submitted at a later date than specified in the Rule. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. The Senators state, I propose to supplement the agenda with points: the Act amending the Act amending the Law on excise duty and certain other laws, the Act senators, the Law on greenhouse gas emissions management and other substances, the Act amending the Law on liquid biocomponents and biofuels and certain other laws and the Act on the promotion of electricity from high-efficiency cogeneration and considering this item as the first item of the agenda; the Act on the Agency for Medical Research and consider this item as item 2 of the agenda; the Law amending the Law on support for rural development involving the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 to 2020 and certain other laws and consider this item as the seventh agenda, i.e. after the Act on the refund of excise duty included in the price of diesel. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u2	Mr Marshal, these are proposed on the agenda of the 2nd Act: amendment of the Law on the Rules for the Management of State Property and some other laws and, in paragraph 4 of the Act on the amendment of the Act on the Recovery of Excise Duty included in the... [[...at the price of diesel.]] ...at the price of diesel. I would like to ask that the first of these laws, before we begin to process it, be referred to the administration committee...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u3	Mr. Senator, I'm sorry. We've already established that. That point of order... [[Voice from the room: Voice of objection...]] I'm asking you about... I will not read the titles of these 3 laws now, because one title is very long. The question was, who's in favour and who's against it? Well, the senator raised his hand, so I realized that your vote would be one of those three laws. [[No, no. It concerns the agenda at all.]] Come on, Senator, listen and don't disturb me, don't disturb the agenda. You're welcome. I will say again: if I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted my proposal, read just now. I don't hear any objections. I state that, in the absence of votes against, the Senate accepted the proposal. And now is the moment when you can speak. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? And now you're welcome. I understand you're being held up by your application. Now I'm gonna follow what's going on because I didn't get it before. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u4	So I would like to propose that you, before we proceed over these laws, address two of them not only to the Committee on National Economy but also to other committees. The law amending the Law on the amendment of the Law on excise duties and certain other laws must be addressed to the Committee on the Environment, and this is because it also applies to a large part of the Act on the promotion of electricity from high-efficiency cogeneration. The Law amending the Law on the Principles for the Management of State Property concerns a number of entities which manage this property and which are located in public administration and local governments, so I ask that this law also be sent to the competent committee. Thank you. [[Which committee?]] To the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. [[And what committee was that bill on?]] Economy.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u5	So we're going to vote separately because that's two proposals. I will accept them as two formal requests for referral to the committee. First, the first motion. The senator proposes that the law from the point of the first old order, the order submitted to you on your desktops, i.e. the law amending the law on the amendment of the excise duty law and certain other laws, the law I'm against it, Senator... [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]] Excuse me? [[Voice from the Chamber: The Law on the Principles for the Management of State Property...]] But that's the second conclusion. Come on, Senator, don't bother. For now, we are dealing with this first proposal. There are 2 formal proposals, sir: one proposal concerns point one, the second proposal concerns point four. Well, you're supposed to be helping me, not disturbing me. Ladies and gentlemen, I will put this to the vote, but I will explain something first. Minister Tchórzewski called me and asked me very much not to direct this law to either the Committee on the Environment or the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, because the changes in this area do not concern environmental impact or budgetary or financial matters at all. In the Seym on this law, the Committee on Infrastructure was prosecuted. I understand you're making a motion to refer this bill to the Committee on the Environment. I'm against it, but we'll vote on your motion. We'll proceed with the vote. Who's in favour of sending the bill to the committee, as requested by Senator Augustine? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, 22 for, 56 against. [[Voting No 1]] The formal application was rejected. The senator's second motion concerns point four. There is a request for this law to be addressed to the local government committee. We'll proceed with the vote. Who's in favor of the senator's request? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, 22 for, 56 against. [[Voting No 2]] Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, would anyone else like to speak on the agenda? I don't see any volunteers. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the seventy-fourth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term. I would like to inform you that a half-hour break will be announced at 5 p.m. The votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, that's the information. Following the preparation of the committee's reports, the order will be supplemented by points: the Law on the Research Network of Łukasiewicz and changes in the composition of the Senate committees. So that by these 2 points the order will be completed. We can't vote on this right now because we don't have the reports yet. We proceed with the review of the first item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law amending the Law on excise duty and certain other laws, the Law on environmental protection, the Law on greenhouse gas emission management and other substances, the Law amending the Law on liquid biocomponents and biofuels and certain other laws and the Act on the promotion of electricity from high-efficiency cogeneration. The text of the Act is contained in print No. 1096, and the report of the Commission In print No 1096 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Adam Gawada, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present the position of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation in relation to the Act amending the Act amending the Law on Excise Tax and certain other laws, the Act amending the Law on Liquid Biocomponents and biofuels and certain other laws, the Act This law modifies, among others. the provisions of the Law of 28 December 2018 amending the Law on excise duties and certain other laws. The need to amend the excise duty law and certain other laws that we adopted at the end of last year is mainly due to doubts arising from the existing provisions of this law in the form of interference with the powers of the regulator of the energy market, the President of the Energy Regulatory Office. In view of the doubts expressed by the representatives of the European Commission and the Energy Regulatory Office, the draft law proposes to remove the article. In addition, the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Decision are compatible with the internal market and that they constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. The above amendment aims to remove the doubts related to the application of the provisions of the Act of 10 April 1997 on Energy Law. The draft law also clarifies that the prices and rates of charges at certain altitudes should be applied to the final consumers of electricity referred to in Article. 3. In view of the interpretative doubts arising also in relation to the type of contracts covered by Article. 5 The proposal amends this provision by indicating precisely that this obligation applies to all types of contracts concluded between the trading firm and the final customer. Another amendment, as set out in the article. Point 1 (3) (a) and the project is to allow for the payment of the price difference by end-users buying electricity for their own use. Amendment to Article 7 also includes the proposal for an extension of the statutory delegation to the regulation by the Minister responsible for Energy, mainly by defining the way in force on 30 June 2018 the prices and rates of electricity charges for end-users in special situations. This aims to eliminate possible doubts as to the conduct of the so-called. non-standard situations in which the final recipients were found, such as: use of the services of the reserve seller on 30 June 2018. This law, these amendments also apply to the Act of 21 April 2001 on the protection of the environment. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 The amending act proposes amendments to this law, which aim to ensure consistency within the legal system in connection with the entry into force of the Law of 28 December 2018. In addition, these changes include the promotion of electricity from high-efficiency cogeneration. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 5 The Amending Act proposes to amend the Act of 14 December 2018 on the promotion of high-efficiency cogeneration electricity consisting of 3 elements: the concept, the definition of the investment decision is introduced; the definitions of the new cogeneration unit and the significantly modernised cogeneration unit are being amended; a procedure is being carried out to verify the timing of the investment decision for the cogeneration unit concerned. These changes result from an obligation imposed on Poland by the European Commission. Meetings took place at the working level of the department directors But also at the highest level, ministerial level. The arrangements that took place at the end of the prenotification process of the electricity support mechanism from high-efficiency cogeneration... It was ensured that support for new cogeneration units under auctions or calls would only be available to an entity fulfilling the requirements of §50.The guidelines on State aid for environmental protection and energy-related objectives in the years 2014 to 2020, i.e. in respect of which the investment decision will be taken after the auction or recruitment has been won. During the meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, there was a discussion, an analysis of the arrangements at government and European Commission level. In the view of many senators, this law is very difficult to implement, also through implementing instruments at the level of regulations, since maintaining the price level of June 2018 and introducing instruments that can compensate for possible lost revenues on the power generation side, as well as on distribution and marketing, is undoubtedly very difficult. That's the result of a dozen. .. or even more. years of adoption of European legislation at different levels, transposition of this law, matching it with Polish conditions, as well as a very serious turmoil related to regulations covering CO2 emissions charges. All these issues, which many senators were concerned about at the committee meeting, were in a way, I would say, very responsible, gathered in this law. The Act aims to make reference to the needs of households, but also to companies wishing to maintain the level of competitiveness in Poland, as well as in the international arena... The introduction of such solutions is in my view and in the assessment of many members of the economic committee, but above all the government, of all means necessary. The Commission has decided to adopt the law without amendment and I ask the High House to do the same.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u7	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Augustine. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u8	Mr President, please tell me whether in the statements at the committee's meeting with regard to the Rule. 3, Article 10 and articles on cogeneration we have heard that negotiations with representatives of the Commission have been concluded with concrete conclusions and we can certainly say that the rules we are debating will be in line with the European Union directives.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u9	Now, right? Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Comfort. You're welcome. [[Right now, Mr. Marshal?]] Yes, you're welcome. Senator Comfort. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u10	Mr. Senator, I'd like to ask you something. There was talk of the opinion of the Parliamentary Legislative Office for this bill. I would like you to convey to the High House what this discussion was all about. That's one thing. Second. What were the allegations of our Legislative Office, what were they? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u11	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u12	I answer the first question about the article. 3 and others concerning doubts as to whether the law was fully agreed with the European Commission. I listened to the votes of the department heads, the legislator and Minister Skobl, who attended the committee meeting yesterday, and I am convinced that most of the issues on which there were doubts at the working level, including government level, were agreed. I can't give such a full guarantee as rapporteur. I am convinced that these difficult negotiations, as I have already said, and as this was noted at the committee meeting... They were difficult, and they were about clarification... it was agreed, and so, in my opinion... I think the senator is mainly concerned with the law on the promotion of high-efficiency cogeneration, which is sort of... [[Suspension.]] ...the suspension process. From the information we received at the committee meeting, it appears that this suspension should, as a matter of fact, give way to a clear decision by the European Commission. That's about the first question. With regard to the second question, doubts about the law and the need for it to be introduced. In his speech, the senator raised the question that at the end of the year we adopted a very difficult law, that comments and observations concerning the possibility of price increases had been signalled earlier. Of course it's true. The preparation of the law and the creation of instruments that limit the possibility of price increases required some analyses as well as arrangements. I'm not responsible... I'm not entitled to, I'd say, indicate the dates and dates accepted by the Ministry. The end of the year was a time when the Sejm and the Senate adopted this difficult bill. As we remember, it was adopted virtually unanimously. I'm speaking practically because I think it's with a few voices of objection.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u13	Senator Comfort. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u14	Senator, that's not what I asked. I was a little late, and I just walked in when the committee was having a discussion. I have not heard a full discussion about the position of Parliament's legislators. I would genuinely like to ask the senator to, if you remember... I figured out from the context that the opinion was negative, but I don't know what was in it. My second question was that... I would like to ask the senator to tell the High House what the reservations of our Legislative Office were. Thank you. [[I see. As far as I'm concerned...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u15	You're still Senator Augustine. Yes? You're welcome, Senator Augustine. [[Excuse me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u16	(PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. My question concerns Art. Eight, in particular, lithium. d. The requests submitted by the energy company are to be taken into account by the electricity company carrying out its business activity in the field of electricity sales volume. On what basis will he be predicted? [[I'm sorry, I didn't hear you. It's about art. The 8th Act or the December 28th Act discussed here?]] This is change four, Mr. Senator, on page six, concerning the article. 8, lit. d, which is on page 8, at the top where the paragraph is amended. 3 and 4. Specifically, I refer to the words of my mouth. 3.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u17	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u18	The margin depends on the total volume of electricity sales to final customers... It's just going to be an accident of the combined volume of electricity sales. As regards the first question, the project was assessed by the Sejm Analysis Office on compliance with European Union law and indeed, the Sejm Analysis Office highlighted the risk of breaching 2 articles. The first article is an article. 3 (1) (a) 2 Directive of the European Parliament on common rules for the internal market in electricity. This concerns the amendment of 2 articles of the Act of 28 December 2018 on the amendment of the Law on excise duties. And the second question or risk may not be doubt, but the risk to which BAS has drawn the attention is related to the article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Directive establishing a scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the Union. And this is about amending the law on environmental protection. In this respect, the Ministry has ensured that the volume of additional allowances does not exceed 50%, i.e. 48% As far as I can remember from the committee meeting, and so... This level does not increase the risk and falls within the framework of the adopted directive.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u19	Thank you. Are there any more questions for the Senator rapporteur? No. Well, thank you, Senator. The bill was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Minister Tomasz Dąbrowski of the Ministry of Energy is present. Minister? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Tomasz Dąbrowski: No.]] No. Do any of you senators want to ask a question? Yes? Then please, Minister, because there will be questions. At least one, maybe more. You're welcome, Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u20	Minister, I would like to ask you why there has been no agreement with the European Commission on the provisions which are covered by the directives, but we are doing so in the process of amending the law. We pointed out in December that this situation could occur, and you ignored it. Now we are in the middle of negotiations, we do not know what they will end with, but we are already making further changes, which may not be in place again. Why don't we just act normally, I mean. So that we agree first and then implement? That's the first question. The second question: is it true that all final recipients are not paying higher bills today compared to what happened last year? 'Cause from time to time, I'm just reading... But in the Seym debate I saw energy invoices shown, significantly higher, e.g. paid by local government units. What's it like, did this bill actually work? Or did it not work and at least some entities pay higher bills? And the third question, more specific, relating to the amended paragraph. Article 3 8. Namely, it is this forecasted by an energy company carrying out electricity trading activities in sales volume. How will he be defined?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u21	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As regards the agreement with the Commission, I would like to say that after the adoption of the law last December, consultations were held very quickly with regard to those provisions which could raise doubts. Meetings took place both at technical level and at political level. At the moment, the area governed by the Act No 1096 concerns one element which could potentially raise doubts from the Commission And Senator Gawada has made an extensive presentation of this. That is to say, interfering with the legislator in setting prices and rates of distribution charges, which should by nature belong to the regulator. And that is mostly what the regulation of this law is about. Here the point is that, on a good case, whether we're dealing with compatibility or non-compliance, the case is questionable. It will be assessed against a completely different case, which at the moment the Commission is leading to another Member State, but our case appears to be similar. This is where the Commission has already taken a position once and expressed itself as a negative one. In view of the above, we decided to remove this doubt immediately, so that, among other things, we would remove it. Do not hold such discussions. Other changes are, in effect, a consequence of adaptation in this area and at the same time remove certain doubts that may have been drawn against the text contained in the draft law. As regards the question concerning the final recipients and whether this law worked, it must be said here that according to the law which was passed earlier, the sellers had 30 days from the date of entry into force of the regulation to adapt contracts. This regulation is not yet in place, and we are modifying the delegation to issue it, so it will appear in a moment. In addition, the legislator made it clear that last year's rates should be applied to all customers. And there's no doubt about it. Any translation from vendors that do not know something, do not understand something, is simply not doing the law, because the legislator has made it clear what should be applied. What these vendors do not know is, of course, what compensation they will receive, because this will be determined after these provisions have been adopted on the basis of a regulation that the Minister of Energy will issue. As for the volume that the senator was asking about... If I understand the reference correctly, the volume will be determined on the basis of the actual readings of the measuring devices. And it's just written in this recipe... [[I mean the predictable one, Minister.]] In the rule of mouth. This Regulation shall enter into force on the In view of the above... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]] Perhaps there was something else about the question. If so, I probably didn't understand. [[Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u23	Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u24	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, you said that a second ago, if any distribution companies do not comply with the amended rules, they simply do not apply the applicable law. And at the same time, you said And this is where I agree. Only after this regulation has been adopted will it be possible to wonder... it will be clear. I'd like to ask you what it's like, because I think you're taking any responsibility for this bill... Even though it's a parliamentary bill, the Minister is trying to explain to us that everything is fine. On December 28, we called here a week earlier, at the last minute we are proceeding over the bill, because for six months the ministry had not seen, it missed that prices had risen. There is a message in Poland that Poles are safe because we have passed a wonderful bill. You have just said that it will only work in any way if there is a regulation, and that regulation will only work if you agree with the European Commission, and if it does, it is a huge risk that there will be problems again. I have an article here about URE. Since the entry into force of the Law of 28 December 2018 on the amendment of the Act, etc. The President of the URE began to receive disturbing signals from end-users other than households with serious problems related to the lack of offers for electricity sales, as a result of the lack of possibility to conclude contracts for the sale of this energy. In a decade-old history of the retail electricity market, such a situation should be considered unprecedented, as stated in the URE Communication. Companies that are running out of fixed-term contracts and who want to change vendors cannot find new offers on the market. Minister, tell me if this isn't a mess, who's responsible for this situation right now. What do you want to do in the near future so you don't get any deeper? Can you say today that you won't be standing here in two months and saying that you have to change this bill, just like this is happening right now?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u25	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe I'll start by saying that what Senator Pociej said requires some correction. Firstly, in my statement, I did not refer to distribution companies, but to trading companies. The essence of the case is fundamental, because these are completely different segments of activity in the area of the energy market. So once again, the regulation I was referring to is about trading companies, not distribution companies. These are two things that really need to be very carefully distinguished. Secondly, I also said that the law clearly indicated the prices to be applied in circulation, and there is no doubt about that, and the element that does not exist is a regulation which sets out a very small part of the regulation as a whole and applies only to trading companies and not to customers, specifically to compensation. It's not here yet. This will be set out in the Energy Minister's Regulation. We will most likely announce this regulation within a week, maybe two weeks. So this is a separate issue. I understand all these voices of discontent, which multiply and aim to increase the state of uncertainty, to say that this law does not work, that it has become a disaster, that we have eliminated the market, but it actually abstracts from what is the basic line adopted in this law. Firstly, the wholesale market is still operating because there is no interference at this level. Secondly, even the retail market can continue to operate, because if the wholesale market works, what the legislator stated in the Law of 28 December last year is a specific maximum price, the maximum price for a given product. So that there may still be an offer with a price below the maximum price, all depends on what cost efficiency the entity will have on the market. In view of the above, this issue, which appears, for example, in the URE President's Communication, concerns a situation which is still regulated, because in the absence of any offers, there is a reserve sale involved, which is also regulated by the law, only in a completely different place.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u26	Are there any more questions? You're welcome, Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u27	A representative of the Energy Regulatory Office signalled very serious problems in carrying out statutory tasks, here in December when discussing the budget law, the need for significant funding of this office to enable it to carry out its tasks was reported. None of the Ministry's representatives have dealt with this situation, so I'm counting on the Minister to do it now. Please don't tell me there's no money. Okay?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u28	Mr Senator, as regards the URE's request to increase funding, I would say that, of course, when specific tasks arise, sufficient resources and resources must be provided for these tasks to be carried out. We have so far supported the URE's demands for increasing the budget in its part. As I recall, last year URE didn't even use all the free resources it had. They were unable to fill the 34 jobs they had planned for them. At the moment, in connection with these tasks there is still some space for existing resources to be realized, only these resources need to be used properly. The problem that the senator raised is perhaps a broader problem throughout the administration, which is underfunded in many places, and it is necessary to take a closer look at whether all resources are properly allocated. But it's beyond the matter of this bill, which is in the process today.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u29	Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u30	Minister, in view of what you have just explained to us, do you believe that today entrepreneurs, households, local governments know what prices they will pay for electricity in 2019? Can they already know, or only when there will be a regulation? Are there any other elements that could affect this uncertainty about how much we're going to pay for electricity?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u31	Mr Marshal, the Senators, I have already referred to this issue in principle two times, I will repeat it again. The legislator made it clear what prices should be applied. If someone says he doesn't know the price to apply, either he hasn't read the bill or read it, but he doesn't like it, he doesn't want to apply it and he's looking for a way to create a variety of confusion so he doesn't do it. But at the same time, I will remind you that for failure to comply with this law there are appropriate sanctions, there are mechanisms to ensure the application of this law, enforced by the regulator. Therefore, on this question, do the recipients know whether they know or not, the answer is yes, they know, because the legislator has just said so. Whether this law is being implemented is a matter of law enforcement, and in this case we are dealing with a broader, general social phenomenon.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u32	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. You were the first to speak to Senator Augustine. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u33	Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! We're dealing with a curiosity situation on the outrageous border. When very significant changes in energy prices started in June, partly due to serious errors that were made in the field of climate policy and which were still aggravated by what was happening outside, the Ministry did not take any steps. Then, in a panic at the end of the year, seeing that a very drastic rise in energy prices cannot be avoided for both businesses and households, trying to save themselves from the impending disaster, it is proposed, one could say, from day to day, solutions which, as we have all seen here, are imperfect. Today we meet, of course, once again, to correct mistakes that we haven't even heard the word "sorry." You shouldn't do that. You can't do that. It was then a parliamentary submission and now there are, in such a serious matter, only to omit, at least in this case, the necessary consultation. In addition, with us in the Senate, this law was not addressed to a very important committee dealing with climate policy, the Committee on the Environment. This is a submission which is burdened with this first-born error, because the rules fall into the market, which are governed by European Union directives, and still as proposals should be considered and consulted in advance. However, it is only now that we have a discussion, a debate with the European Commission, and the draft regulation is due in two weeks. It just shows how prepared you were for it. It's been almost two months since then, and you say we'll have a project in two weeks. And when there's a regulation, we'll see. This is really an unprecedented situation, and I've been here a dozen years and I haven't seen anything like it. That is why it is difficult to move on to the agenda. This concerns a very sensitive segment and should not happen under any circumstances. Many times this was signalled by representatives of the Energy Regulatory Office, who already said in December that the tasks imposed on them would be difficult to perform without additional resources. It's been two months, it's been repeated at our committee meeting, and our requests to fund the URE for this reason are rejected because there was no money. Meanwhile, as we know, the money is, there's a lot of money to be given away, but there's nothing for what should be here. I don't get it at all. Well, unless we accept that the Minister really wanted to say in a veiled way that the Energy Regulatory Office, disturbing us, parliamentarians, lies that he has job vacancies, has money, and does not want to do it. Yes? Is that what you were going to say? However, my experience is that so far the Energy Regulatory Office has always delivered balanced and truth-based judgments. So I'm going to let myself be so convinced that this is the expectation that should be fulfilled. It is therefore difficult to take a positive stand on this law. We understand that we need to act so that electricity doesn't go too high. But if this means that these provisions can be at the end, as a result challenged, because they have not been agreed in advance, then how can you sign up for it? And in conclusion there is this perspective, not only a short-term perspective, but also a long-term perspective that we discussed a lot here in December. Namely, this is another submission which does not refer to the substance of the case. From this point on, the Minister of Energy spoke. And Prime Minister Morawiecki, whom I asked here, did not deny The fact that we are facing a serious challenge is that we are facing a threat of paying very large sums if we do not meet the climate requirements that we have committed ourselves to. And that's the direction. also towards reducing energy costs. In the meantime, as you know, it has happened in spite of what has been said here from this tribune, probably this was also the conviction of the Ministry, I think that energy produced from traditional sources, especially coal, will be cheaper than the RES, because it is too expensive and it is not worth going in that direction at all. You've ruined a lot of this segment, you've stopped investments, you've reduced the share of RES, instead of catching up with indicators, you've caught up with 15%. which we should achieve. And in my opinion, saving the situation is just one of the things that needs to be done. A much more serious issue is dealing with this huge challenge, which is the development of Polish energy based on renewable energy sources. That's not what you're proposing. There are no major investments in this area. That is why this should sound out of this tribune: you are leading us to the edge of another significant increase in energy prices. Because I think I have the right to believe the Prime Minister that the threat of these high penalties is real. So we have to say that those responsible for energy policy, and thus for the price of energy, the resorts do not do their job well. You are faced with short-term and long-term challenges far behind, you are unprepared, and once you have heard something, it turns out that it is either not fully thought out or it is not in line with European Union rules, which brings about a state of uncertainty. The Minister says there's a general clause that it can't be higher, so there shouldn't be any doubt here. Well, you can agree that there's one recipe that says that candy bars can't cost more than 4 zlotys and that it's done. Not in such a complicated matter, Minister. This shouldn't work if the market is to work. And I'm more against it than you are. The market is largely pending, suspended and not functioning properly because there is no set of rules that would allow it to do so. It seems to me that we need a very serious reflection on this subject and a complete change of direction. The Ministry, the government should anticipate problems, shape energy policy, not just talk about it. He should make decisions in time, not in time, incomplete and questionable. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u34	Thank you very much. Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u35	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! I have a few purely procedural reservations. It comes back all the time, and that's what I want to focus on, the way a majority of the Senate in this House gives their permission, the way we proceed with the laws. First of all, that's exactly what happened with the Supreme Court, and that's what happened again with this bill. Every time, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators of the Law and Justice, you are outraged by any comments on this subject, any comments on the method of proceeding. When in the case of changes in the system, the laws concerning the Supreme Court were pointed out that they were very serious, I stress: very serious . reservations from the Legislative Bureau when these clauses were supported... of the Act... Sorry, corrections. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, There were senators here who said: 'Ah, come on!' It's all great, isn't it? There was a minister standing here who said it was very good. And then what happened? He came a month later. And he came here seven times to change the 1st bill. He came in with the same laws. Today's bill is very similar. I'd like to ask. Senator Augustine was talking about it here this morning. Why this law was only in 1 committee when 3 committees debated on 28 December. What's changed in this bill? Or maybe it's just easier to push another completely unpredictable change through your knee? In order not to be literal, I'll tell you how this process ends. I'd like to remind you. I've got a lucky transcript here. The comments of some colleagues. Senator Pupa was very sympathetic at the time, but he quite categorically prevented me from continuing my conversation and asking questions at the committee meeting, because we were in a hurry, because it was the twenty-eighth... It turned out that all the comments that Senator Augustine had to this bill at the time, but also I... turned out that there were problems after all. If they weren't there, I don't think we'd be talking about it here in the O.R. after less than two months. I'd like to remind you... Senator Gazweda: Of course, there was information and the position of the Energy Regulatory Office was presented, the Energy Regulatory Office presented its position and some concerns at the committee meeting. But we must also take into account that in European legislation, there is a separation between the Minister of Energy and the regulator in the legislation transferred to our legal order, and the regulator can therefore express such concerns. I don't have that kind of fear. And then, I think, but it is my opinion that the president of URE a little bit to heighten these concerns. Senator Radziwiłł: "Dear Gentlemen, to conclude, I will say yes. I think it would be really good, not just for us here, but at all. 'Cause that would be a good signal, too. If we had voted in favour of this bill together. By the way, in some way, I would have traditionally referred to you as a marshal. This is about Marshal Borusewicz, if I remember correctly. . who had tabled an amendment to withdraw this amendment. Because this bill is needed... She was the one that needed it, even though it didn't work till today for two months? We're the ones being called once again, ad hoc, because it turns out this is a bad bill? Then what were you defending? That we should come here again? I'd like to ask... [[Voice from the room: But it was last year...]] Luckily, today I didn't hear such a shocking statement as it was... I no longer remember which Minister came here and scandalously said that we didn't want to work, that they were working at the last minute and came with this wonderful bill, and we didn't want to come on 28 December. Where is he now? It is scandalous how we approach the most important things and how they are carried out in the legislative way. Yesterday I emphasize once again The Sejm Analysis Office and our legislator had serious reservations, today you will raise your hand, and in two months we will come here again. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u36	Thank you very much. I'm closing... [[Senator Pekkis.]] [[May I?]] Mr. Senator Pekkis. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u37	Dear Marshal, Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The law that we are discussing, I take the floor because I disagree with the predecessors. This is not about what you were talking about. Literal reading of this law simply leads to the conclusion that these are technical amendments. In this particular case, these are technical amendments to the text, which has actually been recently adopted. These amendments are the result of what I have established in the meantime that this law is, so to speak, in the process of the opinion of the European Commission. I mean. determine now, after the fact and without prior indication of the criteria, whether it can be, or cannot be, whether we consider it to be public aid or not... Well, we're slowly entering the ideology stage. As far as energy is concerned, we entered this stage not slowly, but quite brutally, harshly, with shoes, very violently. We owe this to the previous government, which has agreed to the certification of the emissions of carbon dioxide emitted during human life into the atmosphere. And we agreed to that, I mean. The previous government agreed to this, literally speaking. This agreement has gigantic consequences, hence such a pursuit here, e.g. Senator's colleague, my predecessor, so we can talk about this bill at the Environment Committee meeting. The specific text of this law does not authorize this, because in this law there are no provisions relating to the environment, but in the very idea of such a total, of course, there are. We will address the issue of the environment more and more, without a clear scientific basis, because there is no clarity about the impact of carbon dioxide on climate change, and there is also a very deep, large inconsistency between the countries that chair and promote it. What is the result of this inconsistency? The leaders of these climate change, which is to be the result of carbon dioxide, do not themselves meet the goals that they make for themselves and others. I'm talking about the nation of our Western neighbours, the Germans. In other words, we can introduce any sharpening of carbon dioxide, but, of course, with the assumption that we will follow the standards ourselves and maintain the levels that we will set for ourselves and for others. And from the measurements it is clear that these standards are not respected by the Germans, who of course lead in making changes. If we were a rich nation, these changes would be virtually unnoticeable to us. I have reached the records that indicate that the German family bears around EUR 22 a month in order to change the way energy is delivered to farms. 22 euros a month. This is the amount which in Poland corresponds to the level of the total energy charge. Of course, for this money, the Germans are making their changes. They implement them inconsistently when it comes to climate change. This is clearly stated, there is no discussion here, because German energy systematically transmits reports to their parliament. That's where they publish it. Glory be to them, we don't. We are therefore facing a situation where a very rapid increase in emission rights, which is independent of us as a country, has led to an increase in energy prices. The forecast was that these prices would increase even more. The government responded. When he found, observing the behaviour on the stock exchange, that it was not a temporary trend, but a constant trend, he reacted and prepared a set of changes that he was systematically and consistently implementing. And now this set of changes is being assessed, after they have been introduced, by the European Commission. Yesterday, we learned that three different directorates are evaluating whether the set of changes we are making is correct or not. They immediately state that it is not correct, so there are further amendments. Today's technical amendment is just such an amendment. So, if you read into this difficult text, because this is a difficult text, you will notice that there are no sudden changes that would remodel the existing system, a very complicated system for paying for energy in Poland. And what's the goal, what's guided by the people who do it. And praise them for that. It is an attempt to halt the rapid rise in energy prices. Is this test gonna work? Yesterday I said this: in my opinion in the long term, the long term Why? Very often there is a speech here. In particular, the senators on the left side of the room lead here. The fact that renewable energy is already cheaper than conventional energy. Well, I don't know what assumptions they're based on, but I can tell you how the PGE Treasury company thinks about the proposal to build a giant wind farm in the Baltic Sea. They, because it is a company that has to make profits after all, have carefully examined the situation in terms of whether it will pay off at all. They did so by comparing the situation to the UK market, which invests in wind farms, and to the German market, which also invests in wind farms at sea. What resulted from these comparisons? If we had built a wind farm about 30 km from the coast, because that's the plan, at 10 GW, this is close to 1/3 of the current production potential of Poland. But if we hadn't built a cable that is expensive to these farms, 1 MW would have cost more than 300 PLN today. I repeat, more than 300 zlotys, assuming we couldn't get the cable that someone else, some rich sponsor, would have put us there. Few would also distribute this power from Pomerania, where there is no energy reception, to the south of the country somehow for its money, so that it would not be at that cost. Anyone who knows what is the cost of producing energy from dirty brown coal, the energy in which the German people lead production This is the largest producer of energy from this source, the most poisonous source. It knows that this is without comparison more expensive, more than 2 times more expensive than in the case of coal production. So telling a little story like that, I'm going to do it again 10 times, maybe somebody will believe it's cheaper... That's not true. Anyone who wants to know what I'm talking about I'll show you the source here. I am referring to the last Parliamentary Group meeting. Energy. These are two meetings, connected, held last week. The position of the Polish Energy Group and PSE were presented there. Why am I talking about this here? Well, because there are myths that are systematically repeated that renewable energy is already cheaper. Ladies and gentlemen, if renewable energy, from renewable sources, were cheaper, then... This government has put in place all the mechanisms so that you can marketly produce and sell this energy. Few of this has been introduced a prosumer system that allows such production for its own needs in a very, very simplified way. So if the energy is cheaper, stop talking about it, just profit from it, just like that. Because today you can. Because this government has put in place mechanisms that make it possible. Of course, subject to climate ideology, you will have to face the fact that the price of energy will rise. So, theoretically, it's even better for you, you're gonna be making even greater profits. So stop telling me how cheap it is, how good it is, how great it is, just take care of this big business and make the big profits you're talking about. The inexorable truth is that in the case of Poland, as far as costs are concerned, coal energy is and for many years will be the cheapest energy. Of course, it will be the cheapest until it is charged with the additional tax that the European Union is paying us, ideologically against carbon. And we have a choice. If we were to genuinely bet on this largest investment in the history of Central European countries, that is to say, we would build wind farms with a capacity of 10 GW by the sea, we would still have to realise that something would have to compensate for situations where the wind was not blowing. Well, that's 'cause situations like this happen. That's not enough. He's being investigated. And that's what the evidence is. That when it doesn't blow, sometimes there's no sun either. So putting photovoltaic farms in parallel doesn't solve the case. And the kids already know there's no sun at night. [[In the warehouse.]] He's hiding behind the horizon, and he's gone. [[Impossible.]] And now... Of course, I take it technically... [[Viciously...]] ...so I'll skip some fantasmagories about... [[Mr. Senator, time...]] Can I have two more sentences? I'm gonna finish this, okay? [[Yes.]] Thank you very much. [[No, an interesting lecture!]] [[Very interesting.]] [[Voice from the room: Very.]] [[There you go.]] I'm going to skip some fantasmagories about energy storage, which, when it comes to such powers, don't exist yet, just don't exist, so it's fantasmagoria. And if someone tries to build them, build them so they can be profitable, and sell them. I wish him luck. That can't be done. Only technology that reacts very quickly remains to be used. So it can be turned on quickly when we're running out of energy. Ladies and gentlemen, there is one technology that works in such a fast way and which we can quickly put on our market. This is gas-using technology. [[Voice from the room: Gas?]] Yes. We could, of course, bet on oil-based power plants, but we don't have that kind of resources, and the cost here is completely different. So the only technology is gas technology. And here I leave you with my own reasoning the question of where this gas will come from. We know where the Germans will get it. And the question is, who's gonna pay for it? Because anyone who compares the price of coal, wind and gas production knows where the gas is. If we want to protect Poles from rising energy prices, we should start intensive action to abolish additional climate taxes, ideological from coal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u38	Thank you very much. Senator Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would say this: we've actually gone from legislation to ideology. I, encouraged by Senator Pekkis' speech, would actually like to say not too much, a few sentences. But before I begin, I would say that I fully agree with your earlier statement, Senator Pociej. I was applauding, and I think that when it comes to the process and the methodology of the procedure, it is 100%. Right. We have the right to legitimate objections to the government and the way in which legislation is carried out in this regard. I totally agree with that. As far as Senator Pekkis is concerned, and as far as CO2 is concerned, I do not want to specifically deny what he said, but I would just like to say that ideology is indeed in control. And you have to be able to get into it properly. I'd start with this slogan: they're all stupid, we're just smart. This is actually the thesis Mr. Pekkis presented. [[Applause]] And I'm afraid I have to deny it. This is not about whether Germany emits more CO2 and it is from less efficient sources, because this is probably the case in many cases, especially in the case of lignite. But the odium, the negative odium about burning coal falls on us and will continue to fall. And this is somewhat similar to the anti-Semitism situation, although it seems to have nothing to do with it. Here's the situation: we have to use hard coal, we have new investments in coal power plants too, but there are a lot of new investments in this area. And we have to use this coal for the next 30 and 40 years. Of course, trying. And it seems to me that the government is doing it, in a slightly late way and not always fully skilful, but trying To introduce renewable energies. It's done. But this ideological sphere is about... In the world, in Europe in particular, there are more and more violent weather phenomena. I mean. there are droughts, there are winds, there are far-reaching anomalies, and all of this is attributed to CO2 emissions by humans. Rightly or wrongly, probably largely right, I don't know. And now... I witnessed it, and that's why I talked about it at many international meetings and explained our position. The voters at various meetings say, "We don't want coal, it makes it dry first, and then... and they attribute it all to CO2 emissions, as I said, rightly or unjustly. And who's going to demonstrate the coal and say it's just coal, we're going to coal In fact, a lot of this coal comes from Russia because it doesn't have its own and it doesn't know what it's defending. It actually exposes itself to what happens to us. I mean. There is enormous pressure in the European Union, especially from the southern countries, Greece, Portugal, Italy, France, etc., to make the European Commission tighten up standards, to increase minimum tendering thresholds for CO2 emissions. It comes from people. Their parliamentarians at European meetings, and at several such energy meetings I have been, say: people are pressing us why this progress is so small, why EU standards are so... and time horizons introducing renewable energies are so far away... Commissioner Šefčovič from Slovakia, who is responsible for this in the Union, actually defends us, says: there are 8 countries heavily dependent on coal, including Poland, which is very dependent on coal, we must do this gradually, because this and that... But they don't listen. What does that mean? Firstly, it is clear that, where possible, we should move towards renewable sources. Secondly, coal must not be defended as a demonstration, because then we are the only guilty party. I always explain it when I get the chance. Instead of saying: Coal, coal, our Silesia is wonderful, especially because it doesn't have to be said right now. You have to say, "Unfortunately, we are in such a situation that we still have to use a lot of coal for the next 40 years, because we have no choice." We are introducing more and more efficient sources, such as: now donated 2 blocks in the Opole Power Plant, which have also high performance, and work with supercritical parameters, etc. We're doing the best we can, but it's gonna take a long time. And at the same time, we build farms on the Baltic, which costs a lot. We're gonna have to run transmission lines from the Baltic Sea. I no longer say: on the Baltic Sea, but: from the Baltic to the deep of the country To use it. That attitude makes us not the one guilty and the one most guilty, because I don't think we are. We owe a lot, but not that much. Here we need to change the way we speak and show our goodwill and the fact that people in different parts of the world, and in particular Europe, are experiencing climate change problems and assigning them CO2 emissions. That's it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u40	Thank you very much. Senator Comfort for the second time, if memory serves me right, so five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u41	The sobriety of the Marshal's mind is always an indication of the highest standards for me. Thank you very much. High Izbo! I will start controversially because I would like to recall from yesterday's committee meeting a passage in which 100% I was in agreement with Senator Gadawa. What does Poland and Poles really lack? The agreement and some thought over the divisions about how our energy mix is supposed to look. And that's the way it really is. A little bit like that from the wall to the wall. That different teams come and each has a completely different, revolutionary and best idea for... And you have to hit your chest: on both sides of the barricade it is similar. We haven't worked out something that would be such an azimuth that all political forces would agree to. Besides, I'd like to remind you that yesterday I also agreed with Senator Pekkis himself about this. Although we probably agreed on different points of view And that's what Senator Pekkis said yesterday. That's what he said: and why do we really need the power exchange if we're regulating everything here, and we really don't need URE. Well, if we're going this way, it's going to be communication, not decommunization of energy. And that's why I don't really like the bill and its assumptions. And I would like to return to the words of Senator Pekkis. You told the senator what about the rest of Senator Wach confirmed that we're not quite sure about the CO2 impact. Here we agree on both sides. And as the senator said about Polish coal, he said that there is no problem, because we just don't know what the CO2 impact is. Two sentences later you passed the senator into Germans... [[The German people.]] [[The German state.]] [[It's true.]] The German state. You emphasized that they have the largest share of brown coal, which is the most poisonous. Well, either that coal's poisonous or it's not. It's not like he's poisonous in Germany, and he's great with us. Another reservation that I have for such an abstract admiration for coal. Well, we've been told many times. And that's what other crews did, succumbing to the carbon lobby that this is our safest energy ingredient, that it's ours and that it's making us independent. Well, you can't say, Mr. Senator, in one breath, that gas is addicting us, and coal isn't, since we're buying this coal, I suppose... I guess there are times when 30% are imported. I am no longer talking about the fact that the most scandalous thing is that we are not only addicted, but we are still buying this coal from Donbass, and this is politically a medium idea, a medium solution in the European international arena. Well, the whole concept of our foreign policy is that we shouldn't bring coal from there. [[You were buying from Russia...]] Yes, sir, but we don't wave an anti-Russian saber all day, from morning to evening. And that's why I think what Senator Gavyd said last night, so there's an idea. Over the divisions, the idea of what our energy is supposed to look like is worth picking up. This is our safety, this is our whole future. Somewhere around here, beyond the divisions, we should start getting along. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u42	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Well, I agree with Senator Pociej. I also believe that the issue of energy prices, energy production, energy demand, the role of energy in the modern world, in the life of man, in the reality around us, is fundamental. From this point of view, it is important that the political environments are able to communicate with each other, to work together for the good of the country and, above all, for its citizens. Because the fact that electricity is crucial is so obvious that it doesn't have to be repeated. Europe loses its competitiveness in the global market as a result of high energy prices, as a result of, among others, energy prices. ecoideology. This is the problem that causes Europe to start to be marginalized, and is behind the global economic race. What could this regression mean in the coming years? The extremely restrictive, high standards for reducing CO2 emissions from a social, political and even substantive point of view, adopted in the framework of energy policy, are a measure which in fact does not serve the objectives pursued. And now I'd like to remind you of something. Senator Pekkis mentioned our neighbour, the German state. As far as carbon dioxide emissions in Germany are concerned, it is twice as large as in Poland. As far as imports of Russian coal are concerned, Germany imports 20 million tons of Russian coal, and Poland imports about 7 million tons of Russian coal. That's the data. The costs of the climate package agreed by the Civic Platform and PSL government in 2008 and 2014 are enormous and can structurally weaken our economy. The government of Donald Tusk in 2008 and the government of Ewa Kopacz in 2014 unfortunately supported the absurd ambitious plans of Brussels' climate policy. It should be borne in mind that the European Union emits only 11% globally CO2 and the biggest poisoners such as India, Russia, the USA, China, Brazil and others, although responsible for more than 50%, do not succumb to this climate pressure because they do not want to destroy their economies. The EU's policies for reducing CO2 emissions are therefore of limited importance globally. However, it is part of a certain lobbying that is intended to permanently weaken emerging economies, such as, among others, emerging economies. Polish economy. That is why what Senator Pociej said about seeking a common development of this policy in this area is important, because it is the decisions of the government, the coalition of PO-PSL, and the adoption of these restrictive standards that have led to the current situation. I do not want to tell you in detail what it looked like at the moment, but it must be remembered because the effects of these decisions will be important. The climate and energy package is essentially a kind of tax imposed on Poles and our economy. Interestingly, the European Commission's 2014 estimates, i.e. the time when CO2 reduction decisions took place, showed that the reduction in CO2 emissions would cost Poland €2.4.5 billion per year by 2030. So that if the current government had not applied mechanisms to reduce the effects of rising energy prices, it could have reduced GDP by 1% or possibly even 2%. A 40% reduction in CO2 emissions by 2030 under the European Emissions Trading System is a radical tightening of EU climate policy. At the moment, the social interest must be balanced on the one hand, because ecology is undoubtedly a very important area and the quality of our lives, the quality of the natural resources in which we live, the quality of nature is important and, on the other hand, social needs and economic development. In my opinion, this is an area that requires cooperation absolutely beyond divisions. It is not enough, in my opinion, that we should all, and supporting the government, and the opposition, mobilise the government to protect our right to development, be one of the main priorities of the Polish authorities, because we are actually talking at the moment about the right to civilization, economic, social and cultural development of our country. I believe that these matters should be free from ad hoc political, electoral interests, because we are talking here about the foundations of our state security and the opportunity to develop our state, and as we all know, I think that there will be a consensus throughout the House. We are catching up on decades of communism and catching up on the civilizational backlogs, the backlogs of development that came from our history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u44	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Pekkis.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u45	Unfortunately, there's no Senator Sweaty in the O.R. A little bit in relation to his speech I will give you an explanation, a little more detail. The need for a Freight Exchange of Energy. Senators on the left side of the room, what was the volume of sales on the Freight Exchange in your time? If you want it to be a stock market power trading, why didn't you put a stock trading obligation under your government? Why is it that this government has introduced this market solution that you are now calling so loudly? Hence the question about the power exchange. As far as the Energy Regulatory Office is concerned... Oh, as far as the Energy Office is concerned, I was talking about a very specific record, a text that we are discussing. Let's revisit for a moment what we do, which is this text. I was talking about the power exchange according to art. 1 point 3 of the contested law, I referred to this particular provision, in which we actually sort of exclude the stock exchange from the operation. How? I'm sending everyone I'm interested in back to the text. If I was talking about the Energy Regulatory Office, I was talking in the context of what the European Commission is doing with our law. In other words, I explained yesterday why we can set up laws here as we wish, and the European Commission will tell us what it thinks, and it will tell us what we are allowed to do and what is not. And this is what it looks like in practice with this law, because today we are leaning on such changes. The thesis presented by the Senator of Opole, which I also appreciate very much because it's Professor... Professor, about what is happening in Poland: it is true, I believe that we Poles know best what is happening in Poland. Is everyone else wrong? Not necessarily. If the professor goes to these international symposiums and meetings, he sees that an attempt to create such a vision that only Poland has a problem with energy, it is a mad test. Why, Professor... I'm not going into a discussion here, and I have time for my speech now, and the professor will be able to address it. Why aren't you talking about Romanians, Bulgarians? Why aren't you consistently talking about how it makes 98%? production of electricity from renewable sources e.g. Lithuania? It's a curiosity. Do you know how it produces? They're burning wood there. It's renewable. Is it organic? I doubt it. Talking about the fact that Polish coal is good or such suggested, veiled confession by a fellow senator that German is bad and Polish is good... Of course it is, because it is about brown coal and stone coal, and this is a huge difference, huge in energy value and associated waste after burning, both solid and gaseous, suspended in dust. Giant. There's no discussion here. The burning of hard coal can be done in a way that is almost pure in the current technology that we have, for example. at the Opole Power Plant. And she, Professor, if you look at the actual data, isn't as good as you said she was. Now, Professor, look at the nominal design power of the power plant and the power obtained from the block. There's no efficiency here, Mr. Professor, which you're talking about. So much for facts, what's already published. Of course, we will expect that after such an investment this power plant will achieve the efficiency that you are talking about, but today, after starting up, it does not yet exist. If carbon dioxide is so harmful, then I have a proposal for you, ladies and gentlemen: stop using it, try to drink a beer without carbon dioxide. Good luck and enjoy your meal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u46	Thank you very much. Senator Hare... [[Mr. Joseph the Hare.]] No, I'm sorry, Senator Hare. Excuse me, excuse me, senator hare. All I looked at was a name, no name. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u47	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! It seems to me that this is a subject that should be least contaminated by emotions, propaganda, only presented by specific numbers. I would like to raise two points relating to this. I'll try to express them as much as possible. Because we, as a nation, like to keep fighting in our chests, sometimes even for other people's sins. I think we're feeling good about this because we're starting problems and we're going this way very often: mea culpa and mea culpa. Meanwhile, what is the issue of this mea culpa in coal matters? Well, in Europe, we are a country that is best placed in terms of CO2 emissions per capita, preferably in a positive sense, because it falls to us as a person, according to data, 7.4 t CO2. Let's go further: The Netherlands, 9,62, Germany, 9,47, Poland, to be exact, 7,76. And a little bit further: Canada, 18,63, Australia, 17,2, Saudi Arabia, 16,2, United States, 15,56. These data, I think, tells me everything. We are the most ecological, according to this indicator, a country in Europe. So why do we keep fighting in our chests? The European Union's dependence on fossil fuels has grown since 1990, when it was 52% , because in the 2016 data it is 74%. What's going on here? Why should we give up this coal while the effects of burning it are the lowest in our country in Europe? And the second question. Mom's coal. Silesian resources, ideologically very neglected, although the largest in the country, and Lublin resources say that we should develop the use of energy or electricity production using coal. I'm just missing something in the middle here. Some say that they smoke, others say that coal is digging, but it's not about the data and how much carbon we're digging, it's about what's bad from it, it's about developing coal-burning technologies, good technologies. I know that there are several institutes, in Gliwice, Katowice, it is already traditional, but also in other parts of the country where we are working on improving the efficiency of coal combustion. And that's the direction. It's not about coal alone, it's about what's wrong with it. As far as I'm concerned, I remember these conversations with my friends in Silesia, which is now over 70%. the efficiency of obtaining energy from coal combustion. And let's move on... I think this is the most sensible direction, i.e. to improve combustion, remaining on this statistical position, which I served here, and for Poland this is seven and forty-several percent of CO2 emissions. Finally, you can ask: what is going on here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u48	Thank you very much. No more calls? There isn't. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I propose to supplement the agenda with points: the Łukasiewicz Research Network Act and consider this item as item 2 of the agenda; changes in the membership of the Senate committees and consider this item as the last item on the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. We proceed to the second agenda: the Law on the Research Network of Łukasiewicz. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1100 and the committee report In print No 1100 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Adam Gawada, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u49	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I am pleased and honoured to present the report of the 2 joint committees on the Law on the Research Network of Łukasiewicz; print No. 1100. The Act provides for the creation of the Łukasiewicz Research Network, hereinafter referred to as the Network, in response to the challenges facing the Polish science and economy in the process of implementing the new development model presented in the Strategy for Responsible Development by 2020 with a view to 2030. The network will be created as a result of the inclusion of parts of existing research institutes with sufficient potential to achieve the network's objective. It will be a structure with considerable autonomy for the implementation of the tasks set out in the Task Act. As indicated in the explanatory memorandum to the project, the network will ensure more effective cooperation between research institutes that will form part of the project, including: by harmonising financial management mechanisms, human resources, real estate and intellectual property rights, and by enabling effective supervision of the activities of the integrated institutes. In addition, the network will provide technological and intellectual facilities for public administration, particularly in areas related to modern technologies. The functioning of the network will also avoid duplication of research themes currently being carried out by individual research institutes. Such phenomena often occur. This dispersion causes that none of the projects, often very interesting, is applied in the economy, does not undergo the implementation process. According to the Act, the network will be created by the centre of Łukasiewicz and institutes operating within the network. The main objective of the network will be to carry out application research and development work which is particularly important for the implementation of economic and innovation policy, as well as the scientific policy of the state. The center of Łukasiewicz will be responsible for the planning and coordination of research and development work carried out in the institutes. At the same time, this centre will also, as well as institutes, carry out research projects and commercialise their results. The main tasks of the institutes operating within the network, as referred to in Article. 3 will implement research projects, including international projects, as well as commercialisation of work results. In addition to basic activities, institutes will also be able to produce unique research equipment and unique materials, carry out metrology, standardisation and certification activities. The institutes that will operate within the network will retain a separate legal personality. This means that they will act on their own behalf and on their own account. The Centre of Łukasiewicz and institutes will operate on the basis of statutes and organizational regulations. The Statute of the Centre of Łukasiewicz will be granted by the Minister responsible for Higher Education and Science. In addition to the annual business plans of the Centre of Łukasiewicz and institutes, a joint action plan will also be developed for the entire network as well as strategies for 4 and 10 years. These strategies will be prepared by the President of the Centre of Łukasiewicz. The bodies of the centre of Łukasiewicz will be the president and the council of the centre. Under the Act with the President and Vice-Presidents of the Centre Łukasiewicz will be concluded agreements for the management of the network. At the president of the centre of Łukasiewicz, a college of advisors will be established which is an advisory and advisory body. Centrum Łukasiewicz and institutes will be able to conduct business activity in addition to research and development activities, which is worth highlighting. As long as this activity is financially and accountingally separate and is not financed in any form by State resources. The revenue generated from its conduct should be exclusively intended for the activities of the primary centre of Łukasiewicz or the institute. At the meeting of the Joint Committees, there were some comments and observations on whether it was appropriate to set up such an institution or an organisation whose activities will lead to centralisation. Well, the whole law and the project, which was presented today at the joint committee meeting, are about to implement a principle of decentralisation, a combination of all links, which will allow for a better exploitation of the potential of science and research institutes. There will also be measures to analyse and separate those institutes that are somehow replicating their activities. This combination, this synergy will enable their activities to be activated, it will enable the application for more resources, and in the near future it will also allow to introduce these important elements of the innovative economy that are in the programme for responsible development, to industry, to implement on an economic scale, very important in terms of our ambitions, including those related to the climate package, with new technologies, with everything that we have already talked about many times at the meetings of the joint committees... Today, our challenge is not to eliminate certain elements from our economy, but to strengthen these links so that we can exploit our own potentials, including the potential of an innovative economy, innovative energy, distributed energy. The kind of energy that in the future will ensure not only the energy security of the country, but also allow for the creation of such links of good, sustainable development and maintenance of the country's development potential. Of course, at the committee meeting there were also votes against, and there was also a motion to reject this law, but the proposal was rejected by a large majority. At this point, I am asking the High Senate to adopt a law without amendment, as was voted out at the joint committee meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u50	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the minority rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Piotr Wach, to present a proposal for a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! I present 2 minority proposals: the first concerns the rejection of the law and the second concerns the failure of the first proposal, which is likely to be amended. I'll start with general reservations. What I want to talk about on behalf of minorities is, among other things. a method of proceding to which we have great reservations. So I'm going to start with things, you could say, a little less important. From the methodology of the procedure, the procedure and certain details related thereto And then I'm gonna go over the substance that's gonna justify rejecting the bill. Finally, I will talk about the amendments, which is the second proposal. That's the way I'm gonna say it. As far as the procedure is concerned, as you have noted, this law has only been brought into order a moment ago, because the committee meeting took place today at 8:00 a.m. The Commission had an hour to discuss a law that is extensive and which, contrary to appearances, is quite complicated. I don't want to accuse the president or the committee of anything about how to proceed in committee, because this procedure took place with good will. The meeting was well held, i.e. Everyone was in a hurry, nobody talked too long, there was no obstruction, but the matter and number of amendments proposed by both the legislator and the senators The substantive amendments were significant, and we did not have much time to read the law and discuss these amendments. In fact, everything about committees has been completed... I have only such a reservation that a discussion within 60 minutes of the law, which has much more than 100 articles, half of these articles, more than half, because 70 articles, concerns the law itself, and fifty pairs concern changes in numerous other laws It is not possible to take such a law seriously at such a time. This law deals with very different laws, some are mixed up, comes in accidentally, and some deep, such as. in the Law on Higher Education, and that is still during its entry into force. So these connections are complicated. It also deeply interferes with the law on research institutes in the form of art. 84, where there are very important issues concerning the transformation, merger, inclusion or exclusion of institutes. It also intervenes deeply in the article. We didn't have time to discuss this at the committee meeting at all because either no one noticed it or there wasn't time for it to pay, and precisely to limit salaries in the public sphere. And this law is making quite significant changes there. E.g. The President of the Centre of Łukasiewicz has an extra increase in the upper salary limit up to 10 times, while actually the remuneration limit of all previous governors, in accordance with this law, before these changes, was 6 times. The amendment also concerns the upper limit of remuneration for the main accounting officer of the Centre. And it's not that I mind, but it's that we didn't even mention it. I noticed it now when I was preparing to perform. In short, this is not the way to proceed and I do not know if it is necessary. My formal reservations, including minorities, also concern the fact that there was no representative of the General Council of Research Institutes at the committee meeting. Granted, the Minister said that they had a positive opinion, but nevertheless a positive opinion is not the same as asking questions. I will, by the way, note that the first version of this law, very similar to this version, was notified to the Sejm more than a year ago and was not procededed, was not adopted, as a result, in my opinion and according to my knowledge, of the opposition of research institutes, of the unwillingness of research institutes to implement this law. Of course, this is not a condition, because the government has the right and sometimes it should conduct certain matters against various oppositions. But the lack of representation and the exchange of virtually all the directors of institutes during this year leads to the fact that there is no real discussion. And it's not okay. I might have more formal reservations, but I'm not assigning this committee because the committee didn't have time to do it. The president held the meeting well, and everyone, including the Minister, spoke briefly, briefly and clearly. It's not like something bad happened here, just overnight and in an hour it can't be done and it shouldn't be done like this. Now it's more important that I move on to the substance of the law itself. In its substantive expression it is of a general nature. The targets are outlined in a very general way. I'm sure it's known that the institutes that make up the network There are 37 institutes for which the competent ministers have given their consent to become part of the network, and such a cap in the form of a centre is applied. And she's actually, except, in my opinion, she has very general goals and she's gonna be interfering with institutes' normal functioning, and it's still expensive. It costs because she's got an advisory body that's paid, she's got a CEO who's got an extra salary. Again, I wouldn't mind if it worked. But here's just one thing for sure. It's definitely going to cost money, and it's definitely a complication in the system. Until recently, it was against what I would say, the opinions and the will of the institutes. I don't think that's true at the moment, but the directors have changed because the research institute law allows us to change directors. In this case, too. The President shall be appointed without competition. Actually, the strongest body in the structure of the Łukasiewicz Network Centre is the council. The Council is composed of 5 Vice-Ministers and one of them is the Chairman of the Council. And actually they can at any time, so to speak, blow out the president. So, in short, it is a hierarchical structure, a cost-effective structure, which actually does not know what it is and there is no guarantee that the general objectives, namely coordination, improvement of quality, implementation, better position and use of European funds for research, will be achieved. In my opinion, all of this can be done in small steps, combining or forcing individual substantive institutes to cooperate, giving them tasks. There were no substantive tasks in the discussion at the committee meeting, and there are no tasks in the description, except in general, that it should be better in this and in this regard. There isn't, for example. the tasks we talked about recently, how to set our energy, how to deal with coal and renewables. There are no tasks of a social nature, how to influence demographics, how subsequent programs 500+, their expansion or narrowing can affect this. There's nothing about what our science should be integrated into... nothing in the description or in the bill. She's just a hat, expensive, probably troublesome to the institutes and forced. Therefore, on behalf of a minority that is really smaller, because many of us were not there, I am filing a motion to reject this law. Now a few sentences about the amendments, if you'll excuse me. Can I speak again? About the amendments...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u52	Maybe we should take a short break. I cordially welcome the official visit to Poland to the invitation of the Marshal of the Senate of the Republic of Poland Stanisław Karczewski, President of the Seimasu of the Republic of Lithuania, Mr Viktoras Pranceckietis... [[Applause]] ...ambassador of the Republic of Lithuania in Poland, Mr Eduardas Borisovas, and accompanying delegation. [[Applause]] Welcome, Mr President. I beg you, Senator, to continue your speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u53	I'm moving on to the second part of my speech. I have just justified the motion to reject the law because a minority has submitted 2 applications. Second conclusion... And I will tell our guests that we are discussing the law on the creation of the Research Network of Łukasiewicz, based on research institutes, on a group of research institutes subordinate to individual ministers in Poland. Now I'm going to make amends. We have two categories of amendments here. One group is the amendments proposed by the Legislative Bureau. They are mainly legislative in nature, but in my opinion they are important because they catch inconsistencies, errors, and even ridiculous errors in the bill. Let me just give you one example. Art. 39 (1) (a) 2 says that the Council of Ministers shall establish a network institute by means of a regulation, after consulting the Minister responsible for higher education. I think you can see that there's a fundamental error here. The Council of Ministers has this minister in its composition, and he, as he wishes, speaks. The Council of Ministers with a single minister shall not make any arrangements. But these legislative amendments, smaller or more serious, are 15. Other amendments concern the substance of the case, namely the network itself, and there are dozens of them. They generally strengthen the substantive requirements for the president of the network, e.g. require him to be a habilitated doctor or have the title of professor. They require a competition to be held, in which candidates for the position of President shall be appointed. They slightly broaden the competence of individual advice so that they are not just a decorative body, as it is in this act at the moment. Finally, the amendment that we have tabled, which restores the right to conduct doctoral and habilitation cables for network institutes or connected network institutes, if they have sufficient scientific categories. As you know, now Only the categories decide whether or not you are entitled to doctoral and habilitation. Network institutes can and will probably have such categories. Some of them will have very high categories. Well, we don't postulate. And the amendment doesn't talk about it. In order for them to run doctoral schools, because it is an academic activity, but since it is currently in Poland that the right to pass degrees has an institution, so the university as such, its senate, and not some internal body, it is the same as the network institute, if it had the scientific qualifications confirmed by the category, it could have them. I'm not discussing all the amendments. These are the kind of adjustments. Ladies and gentlemen, in the event of the collapse of this proposal, i.e. the failure to accept a proposal to reject the law, please accept both legislative amendments which will significantly improve the quality of the text of the Act itself. As well as substantive amendments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u54	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to speak? You're welcome, Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u55	Thank you very much. [[Which rapporteur do you address?]] Both rapporteurs, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Gentlemen, Senators of the Rapporteurs! I have a question. In analysing the fate of this law, we must point out that the Minister of Science and Higher Education has prepared this law as a government project and then withdrew it last year. We're revisiting it today, but we're discussing it as a parliamentary project. My question is, what was the basis of this decision? Gentlemen of the Senators, was there any discussion on this at the committee meeting? Why did the Minister responsible for Science withdraw his project and it is discussed today as a parliamentary project? I am also aware that a subcommittee on the Łukasiewicz Research Network was established in the Sejm, but unfortunately it did not propose any changes. What was the basis for this being a parliamentary project today? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u56	Please, Senator, answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u57	At the meeting of the Joint Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Science and Higher Education, such a question was indeed raised. As I recall... I think I'm gonna give the Minister a pretty good sense of what he's saying. Last year, work on 2 laws, including the Law reforming higher education, was carried out in parallel. Therefore, the draft law has been put aside in some way in time, and at the moment we are proceeding over the parliamentary project. I think that there is nothing to prevent us from implementing this parliamentary project, because, in my opinion, in the majority of the senators participating in the joint committee meeting, it is a law that will allow the combination of these many very important links, today dispersed in different institutes, often duplicated. I would also like to say that at the committee meeting there were also discussed topics concerning the main tasks and objectives of the Łukasiewicz network. I think that the nature of this discussion has not been fully addressed, and I would therefore like to add to my report here and also quote the article. 16 referring to the appointment of a College of Advisors with the President, which will act as a consultative and advisory function, which will bring together 10 active representatives of socio-economic or financial groups and scientific communities with at least a doctoral degree. It will also be the task of this college to put forward proposals for priority areas of activity. It is said that we have not set specific objectives in this law. In my opinion and in my opinion, and in the majority of the senators participating in this committee meeting, we should not impose this law on the area of operation of these institutes, we should rather indicate the instruments which used in the work of the Łukasiewicz Institute, will enable the merger of many very well-functioning institutes, also in terms of their scale of impact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u58	Senator Sługocki complements... [[But you're still Senator Wach.]] Senator Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u59	I'm just gonna say this. In our House, more and more projects go through as parliamentary projects. This is, in my opinion, a runway. That's the way we feel about it. Because this allows for an easier, shorter procedure and not necessarily full consultation. Here, for example. justifies, at least formally, the absence of members of the main councils and other guests who should be at the meeting, who should answer our questions. Thanks to the fact that we are dealing with a parliamentary project, it is not a formal defect.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u60	The senator's filling in. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Gentlemen of the Senators, well, from the analyses prepared by the Office of Sejm Analysis, it appears that the implementation of this law on the Research Network of Łukasiewicz requires the amendment of nearly 30 other laws, among others. Law on Higher Education and Science, Act on the Polish Academy of Sciences or Act on Research Institutes. That is why I asked why the bill is being proceded as a parliamentary project. Because when the bill is being processed as a parliamentary project, we avoid the process of public consultation. And we are avoiding in this case, taking into account these 30 amendments to other acts, the consultation of the actors concerned, which will also be affected by these regulations. However, do you not consider this to be a serious, fundamental defect in the law-making process? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u62	Please, Mr. Senator. [[You can...]] [[Okay, I'm asking the question, I'm not saying if it's okay or not.]] Relax, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u63	Mr. Marshal, High Senate, I do not consider this to be a defect. Firstly, a very similar draft law was widely discussed and consulted last year. Secondly, if such a project is a parliamentary initiative, with all due respect, but everyone, every group... Besides, we here, in the Senate, are also going out with such initiatives, they are accepted, and then introduce very good solutions into the legal order. This proposal will also introduce some novelty that will enable me to do so. He called it, a combination of forces. I also pointed out at the committee meeting that among these I'd say 37... Thirty-seven, right? These 37 institutes did not include the Main Mining Institute with a mine of experiments, Barbara and the Center for Clean Coal Technologies. But since this Main Mining Institute has a slightly different function, as if combining all these cells using solid fuels in new technologies, I understand that at this stage, the Institute itself did not form part of what we are talking about. In my opinion, your concerns are unfounded. And I think the consultation process was very thorough, very broad. And from the assurances of both the Minister and your patron, it appears that in these very other laws... the Ministry will be all of this. It was very careful to examine the possible
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u64	Senator Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u65	In my view, in the case of this law, this is a fundamental defect. That's why... Let me give you an example, chief. The Council of the Centre is 5 Vice-Ministers. This law imposes on the government a number of obligations, and it is such an implementing act. It speaks of what these Deputy Ministers, who form the council and are the body of the center of Łukasiewicz, can and cannot do what they should do. And this is the Parliamentary Act. Of course, it is with us that the Secretary of State is also a Member and he is with himself. maybe he'll agree. But it's not right. This is a serious defect.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u66	Thank you, Senator. The question is Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u67	Mr. Senator, in the article. 2 (2) Point 2 is that the Centre is to provide financial resources for the achievement of the Network's objectives. In short, the Centre is to provide the means to achieve its objectives. Where will they come from, and how high will they be?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u68	Please, Senator Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u69	Mr. Marshal, to my knowledge, it will be budgetary resources. And all the revenues that will be generated from economic activities 'Cause it can also be run. They will power the network, that is clearly set out in the provisions of the Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u70	Are there any more questions for the senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u71	This is yours. Do you know or do you think?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u72	If my answer isn't enough, I'm sure the Minister can fill it in. But I guess... I mean, in my opinion... It's a fact I've read from the bill. But, like I said, I'm the rapporteur, and if my answer isn't enough, maybe you can fill it in. You can address that question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u73	Are there any more questions from the senators for the rapporteur? Nobody raises any questions. Thank you, Senator. The bill was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? We have Mr Piotr Dardziński, State Secretary at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u74	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! First of all, thank you very much for supplementing the order about this point and for working on the Law on the Research Network of Łukasiewicz. I would also like to thank you very much for all the comments and observations made during the work of the joint committees. I would like to say a few words, or actually make two comments. First of all, this is a very important act, because it will actually enable more intensive and effective commercialization of Polish technology. We have outstanding engineers who prepare groundbreaking technologies, but face commercial barriers. In order to be able to operate effectively, they need support for the protection of intellectual property and the building of economic models. And that's what the Łukasiewicz Research Network Centre will serve, that's its main function. The centre, as the name suggests, is not at the top The center is located inside because it will be a flat structure. It's not gonna be an institution. This will be the unit that will allow you to coordinate your work. As to the objectives and what will be the subject of specific studies And that's what Senator Wach has mentioned many times. They are, as Senator Gawada said, not defined in the Act, because in such a situation we would be dealing with an excessive stiffening of these goals. So there are instruments and how specific objectives are defined. Please note that the Act refers to the fact that the roadmap for identifying these objectives is the strategic documents prepared by the Government and adopted by Parliament. A strategy for Responsible Development or e.g. prepared by the Ministry of Science. So we know what's to be tested, but we don't write it down in the bill. We do not write this in the Act because we believe that the detailed definition of projects and tasks should be part of the cooperation with the Institutes' directors and they should indicate in which of these areas their potential is the greatest. The last point concerns the issue of public consultation. As Senator Gazweda pointed out, the project has been consulted on numerous occasions. The parliamentary project was also sent to a 30-day public consultation. The results of these public consultations are sent to the Sejm. The General Council of Research Institutes did not make any comments on this project, but it did not report them because these basic assumptions, which we had already negotiated at the stage of the government project, were very intensively prepared together with the Main Council. And the final addition. Of course, the financial resources that the Centre provides are a subsidy coming from part 28 of the budget, so that what Senator Gazweda said is in line with the fact. Once again, thank you very much for all your comments and for your work on the committees. And I ask the High House to adopt the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u75	At present, senators may submit a request to a government representative from a place lasting no more than a minute. Senator Augustine has been notified. There you go. The Minister would like to invite you to the stand.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u76	In fact, Minister, these provisions concerning the purposes of the network resemble those spells that we have always heard, we have heard for years when we have been talking about the lack of research that we have been able to implement in the development of companies and the economy. You just said you didn't type in the details so it would be general and spacious. Then please convince us that it's not like there's nothing behind these words. This is important to us, it is important that we have the conviction that the incentives you will apply will lead to this transfer, not the belief that we will create another institution that will aim to ensure that the transfer takes place. We've been hearing about this quest here for years, but with this transfer, it's just not the right thing to do. Otherwise you wouldn't have offered it, we'd all be happy. And the second question, in part, is the same as Senator Gadawada. One incentive that could be applied is, of course, adequate funding of well-designed tasks. How much funding has been provided for the network over the years, and why so much?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u77	Mr. Senator! High Izbo! Thank you so much for these questions. If there was a conditional mode in my speech, I was talking about the fact that the network would strive, but it is not known whether it will make this commercialization possible, then I would like to make an adjustment: the network will be settled and the Centre for the Research Network Łukasiewicz will be accounted for with the results of commercialization, not with the possible pursuit of commercialization. The Act and the explanatory memorandum explicitly refer to the indicators to be defined for the clearance of the work plan of both the networks and the institutes themselves. And the construction is that in the act we have very clearly written: the purpose of the network is to commercialize research using research at every stage of their development. This is also a comment that we have taken into account after consulting the environment. Originally, we were more focused on application studies, applied, less on basic research. The scope has been extended. These may also be basic research, but those that have the potential to end in commercialization. So it's defined. The second stage: the strategic documents in which the basic fields are indicated are indicated. Then, the Council of the Łukasiewicz Research Network, which represents the Council of Ministers, such a mini Council of Ministers, i.e. the expressor of the will of decision-makers, which is to be financed, and the college of advisors, together with the directors, who are responsible for analysing the potential of what we can do... These two concepts must meet, i.e. one is the expectation in which, let's say, in the area of energy, we should build our competitive competences, and the other is the fact that we must also have the potential to build these competitive competences or start developing this potential. These 2 expectations must meet and then a plan of operation of the Łukasiewicz network for these 2 periods, 4- and 10-year-olds is created. Please note that we are giving this long term. We would very much like scientists who will work in Łukasiewicz to have stable work and opportunity to develop projects, not rotation every 2 years in connection with successive grants, which are sometimes not entirely consistent. This does not mean that they will not be evaluated every year as to the indicators, the effects they achieve. So we are not interested in creating just a certain mechanism or structure that potentially uses commercialisation, we are interested in real commercialization within the network. And the president will be responsible for that, and he will be accountable for that. This is the subject of his evaluation, which will be recorded in the contract prepared for him. The second question, about funding, is the question to which the answer consists of 2 elements. The first measures that the institutes will receive this year's activities, if the State wishes to adopt a law, are those which are allocated to institutes on the basis of the so-called algorithm that has so-called. basic grant, today's subsidy, for all institutes. And this is the basic budget we have. This is about 300 million PLN for all these institutes. In addition, the network will have resources that will not be dedicated to each institute, because this money is the money of institutes and we do not want to disrupt this structure. We believe that institutes should have their budgets and should host these budgets. And that means that if they generate surpluses, then these surpluses should remain in these institutes. There will also be targeted budgets that will already be managed at network level. But once again, they will not be managed by the president, who will give the directors a little bit after being considered, but the network will have its own algorithm, which will be in line with those decisions I spoke about earlier, the board of the institute and the college of advisors... If, for example, there will be an area of biotechnology or an area of energy storage, or an area of renewable energy, that will create a budget for projects related to it, will be an internal competition for the building of consortia and will be giving funds to these institutes. As a general rule, we would like those institutes that are doing well to have even more resources. So it's not only that we leave funds in the Institute's account, we'll still be in those institutes that effectively commercialize research, invest. And that, Mr. Senator, is the answer to the question of how we want to mobilise more efficient commercialization, rewarding those who today know how to carry out this commercialization. In the future, the decision will also depend on you again. With the next budgets, we will seek to increase both this basic grant for institutes and funding for targeted programmes. The idea is to be able to develop as many projects as possible, which are projects within the network. And now I can tell you symbolically: today, if the entrepreneur wants to contact Polish scientists who are online... sorry, who work in research institutes... I meet businessmen like that. They ask me a little as, remember, the President of the United States: where is the call to the Polish scientist? So where can I call and say, "I need it or I need it, I have this problem, please help me solve it." Today, this entrepreneur needs to call 38 directors and ask them. Some of them can do the first part of the study, and some can do the second part of the study. And now this entrepreneur has to deal with each of these directors and make them get along. Well, it's not something that is the main vocation of Polish entrepreneurs. The Centre of the Research Network Łukasiewicz just allows this service, which is natural for every scientist, i.e. contact with entrepreneurs, researching the needs of entrepreneurs, offering them some solutions I am no longer talking about protecting intellectual property in the construction of contracts or the creation of spin-offs, i.e. companies together with entrepreneurs. These are quite complicated procedures, rather of a legal-economic nature than an engineering-scientific nature. After the establishment of the Łukasiewicz Research Network symbolically this phone will exist, although I am almost sure it will not be the telephone of the president, but rather someone who will analyze and have knowledge of the potential of any Łukasiewicz Institute. And that's the first, very measurable effect of these institutes being in one family together. [[Minister, how much will be allocated to the network each year according to plan?]] I mean. The minimum is 300 million. [[It's for institutes. What about the net?]] Three hundred minimum... [[Plus, right?]] Yes. [[I just wanted to make sure.]] Plus additional measures, which will each time be decided by the Council of Ministers and Parliament when adopting the budget.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u78	You're asking Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, I am very pleased with this example, which you gave in the last part of your speech, because in this discussion we forgot a little about what is the salt of creating the competitiveness of the Polish economy, i.e. entrepreneurs. I understand the intention, although the president's phone sounded ambiguous... But I don't want to talk about it... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education Piotr Dardziński: I specifically said that this will not be a call to the president.]] No, no. I'm kidding, of course. I'm skipping the point. But, Minister, I have this question: will the institute be equipped with such instruments, which will, however, encourage Polish entrepreneurs to become more active? I understand goals, reference to strategy papers, etc. It's all clear, clear, clear. But how do you... We're creating a network again, creating an entity, setting up an institution. The idea could even be accepted, but how will it all translate into everyday practice, how? You're talking about a possible call to one president, downtown. But how do we build awareness and provide money so that entrepreneurs come forward? The question is: who is to pay for the research and its commercialisation, and then implement in the X or Y entity, which will come to the centre and will want to increase the competitiveness of its entity by implementing some technology that, I understand, will be developed by a network using 2, 5 or even 38 institutes? That's the question. We're kind of forgetting... We focused on the administrative and research procedure, forgetting about the entrepreneur who should come to the institute and report on his needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u80	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u81	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. Senator! Thank you so much for that question. Yes, it is. It seems to me that it is obvious to all of us that this should be the part of the science that serves entrepreneurs, that it is not enough to talk about the fact that the network is being created for entrepreneurs. What does it mean to be created for entrepreneurs? Not only is she supposed to respond to their needs, but she's supposed to encourage them and create their needs. The function, the role of the centre, I was talking about building economic models, is that... This is the part of the entire network that is in very close contact with entrepreneurs, which identifies their development potential and advises them on how to build R &amp; D projects. In the question of funding... Please pay attention to one thing. We very often focus on financial resources that are institutional. We ask ourselves how much money there will be for institutes. This is also a question that the Ministry of Science and Higher Education asks itself, how much money will be spent on targeted projects, on infrastructure in these institutes, etc., etc. We should remember that funding is a source of funding, which does not come solely from the state budget. These are also measures that come from, for example. from government agencies, or European funds. We also have much more opportunities to raise funds from Horizon 2020, as I mentioned at the joint committee meeting. We're not fully enjoying this today. In fact, we pay more to the program than we do from this program, because our efficiency in building cooperation is too weak both inside, in Poland, between entrepreneurs and scientists and in the international context. The network is designed to respond to needs, to create these needs and to indicate to entrepreneurs the funding streams they have not used so far. And because it's a public institution, it's knowledge... It is hardly surprising to a small and medium-sized entrepreneur that he has no knowledge of the functioning of programmes such as Horizon 2020 or even about the fast paths at the National Centre for Research and Development. And now on this side he will have a partner who will not only tell you what kind of research can be done, but also propose to the entrepreneur what means You can take advantage of it together. The network will have this knowledge in relation to the very nature of functioning, in connection with proximity to the Ministry of Science and Higher Education. I am no longer talking about the fact that the network will have the opportunity to influence and encourage both public administration and parliament to properly prioritize government agencies so that they are consistent with the tasks of Łukasiewicz. It would be absurd if financial streams were going in one direction and development projects It's in the other direction. If renewable energy is important to us, it should be supported in all aspects of this system. [[May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u82	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! I have a question. You were talking about the Horizon programme, but I would refer to the national envelope, the Intelligent Development Programme. I wonder. Let's say I'm an entrepreneur and I'm interested in developing my business entity, and I want to introduce some innovation, a technological line. Of course, I have an idea. I have an idea. I have a relationship with the president who directs me to the appropriate institute. Of course, I have a contribution of my own, but I'm running out of money. I understand that... I'm wondering how we can combine the co-operation procedure with the network with the possibility of applying for money, for example. from the Intelligent Development Programme. How can it be done so that the chances of this design application being prepared after some prior verification and assessment of the validity of such a design application... make success and the source of funding more reliable? Do you think about leading this entrepreneur from the very beginning, also through this, not easy, process of obtaining European money, through research and finally commercialisation or even implementation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u84	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u85	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. Senator! Yes, our intention is to serve the entrepreneur during this whole process, that is to go along with it the entire path. IN POIR, as part of grants that are implemented... POIR is in several institutions, but grants are implemented in the center of research and development. We have already done this correction, we allow consortia made up of scientific units and entrepreneurs. In this case, the Institutes of the Research Network Łukasiewicz will appear as a scientific unit, because they are part of the scientific system in Poland according to the law. The element of building this consortium... In my opinion, it is a good model that the entrepreneur makes his own contribution, and he doesn't have to be high, and the scientific institute brings knowledge plus very often... i.e. competences plus research infrastructure, which Polish entrepreneurs do not and do not always need to own and then they jointly apply for funding. This process is... Mr. Senator touched a very important element, i.e. the fact that very often this case crashes into such a prosaic fact that you have to write this application and you have to write it well. Entrepreneurs sometimes make such a fuss, they say: we wrote it the way we do everything in our company. But it wasn't written the way the experts want to read it. International experts have a standard of what the proposal should look like, what should be found in it, what elements are important, what are less important. It's some kind of knowledge, skill. So the Centre of the Research Network Łukasiewicz and the various institutes will be able to support Polish entrepreneurs in this matter, so that they can be burdened to the maximum on these issues related to bureaucracy. And again, you will see how synergies work here. We have 38 institutes, but we do not need to build this competence in 38 institutes. We build this competence in one place and make it available to all 38 institutes. So, regardless of whether the entrepreneur is going to start working with the via centre network because he doesn't know who to go to, so he's calling this head office, and he's talking about who he can work with, or vice versa, he's already working with some institute, and there's a lot of good examples, or he's just gone to the headmaster at some kind of conference... He can also establish cooperation with only one institute and network himself through this institute, because the director reported to the competent unit at the Łukasiewicz Research Network Centre that this entrepreneur needs legal, organisational, substantive support during the preparation of the application. He will be able to send this request to people who have know-how, knowledge, and before this request goes to experts, it will be reviewed by our internal experts. And that's it. There's a lot of stuff that can be done. It's a simple matter of preparation... There was talk of rules and standards of contracts. E.g. preparation of contracts for commercialization of research... Currently, the directors of institutes very often do not have international law firms which are able to negotiate contracts, and yet sometimes they commercialise technologies with large companies. So on one side is a big company, law firms, and on the other side is the director of an institute that has outstanding engineers, but a lawyer part-time. This ratio is different. And again, it's not about the center doing it now. No. The director can individually negotiate his contract, the contract, but the important thing is that before he signs it, he sends it to the center and says: please verify, check if there are any mistakes sometimes. Or maybe I'm putting myself at risk. So this is this auxiliary function, this network function, in this sense. She's building a certain... I do not know if the word "comfort" here is a good word, because it is not about convenience, it is about safety, that engineers, scientists do not fear risks that are not directly related to their activities, and that those who have the right competence take responsibility for this part. In this sense, this marriage between entrepreneurs and scientists is a little easier, because there's someone who can... who's always working on identifying these couples.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u86	The question is, Senator Probie.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u87	Mr Marshal, Minister, let me repeat the questions I asked at the committee meeting because the answers were not sufficient due to the passing time. Presenting the advantages of this network, you said, among others. that those institutes that create this network will avoid, as if, internal competition. I therefore asked a question which I did not have an answer to in the committee. In Gliwice there are 3 unique institutes: Institute of Non-ferrous Metals, Institute of Iron Metalurgy and Institute of Welding. They have no competition in any way. This is the first case. Two. I asked about the lack of the National Geological Institute in this network. I can guess that part of the answer to that question has already been answered. Mr. Senator Gawęda when he asked about the lack of the Main Mining Institute in this network. Maybe that's the same reason, but I'd like to hear the answer. And the third question. I asked the question, what were the comments on the draft of this law from the institutes that are part of the network, as well as those institutes that are not part of this network. I assume, however, that some of the ways in which the draft law was assessed were. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u88	Three questions, Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u89	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. Senator! Maybe I'll start at the end. What were the comments? Some comments concerned issues related to legal personality. The directors wanted the institutes to remain separate legal entities. And it's preserved. Further comments related to the different types of relationship between the institution and the network, i.e. these functions. We've discussed a lot, as I've already said, that this structure is flat. The centre will not be over the institute. There were also comments and concerns from the directors whether the Centre would not fall into similar research competences. As you know, the Act states that the Centre for the Research Network Łukasiewicz is also a scientific, research entity. And the directors were asking what was going to study this center, this president. He's not going to investigate technology. He's gonna study the things I've been talking about, which is... You can obtain a grant on intellectual property protection or you can obtain a grant for analysis e.g. market or commercialization potential of some technology. So he's gonna be doing this part of the research that's not technological, if I may say so. The heads of institutes have drawn our attention to an issue which has also appeared in your questions, which is, by agreement, that there should be more specific provisions in the law. Let me give you an example that is an interesting example. During our discussions and negotiations with the directors, we decided that the working rules would be issued in the form of a regulation by the Minister and in this sense approved by the Minister for Science and Higher Education. During the work of the Joint Committee in the Sejm, another part of the environment asked why the rules were approved by the Minister and whether they could not be approved simply by the President, because this is simpler. We answered: yes, but it was a call of the environment, which tried to move as much competence as possible up and preferably to the minister. Thus, a little because of the concern about the practice of the centre itself, the partners tried to regulate as much as possible either in the law or in regulations. I think that after this year's cooperation we already know that the regulations are being prepared in close cooperation with the directors. And so on. the issue of a network of posts This is the last issue that I will raise. It is part of the recommendations prepared by the directors. Ministry, I said this publicly during the meeting with the directors. At the beginning of the work on the Research Network Łukasiewicz proposed to directors of all institutes that enter the research network to prepare the first statute of the Research Network Łukasiewicz, showing that this is already the part for which they are responsible, as if collegially directors, not ministry. It should write laws that stop at a certain point, because we are aware that the powers of administration and legislators do not reach into concrete terms. On this occasion, I would like to point out that this is the same philosophy that we applied during the reform of higher education The Ministry also stopped there with regulations, reaching only a certain level and leaving far more freedom for universities. Here is an example of this statute. Regarding the second question concerning the National Geological Institute, there are many institutes we would like them to be online, but the principle adopted here was very, very transparent: which institute enters the network was decided by the supervising minister. The system of operation of research institutes is so constructed that they are in the proper competence of the competent minister. And the Ministry of Science and Higher Education did not intend to enter into the competence of ministers, i.e. it left to their decision a decision which of the paths is a more effective path of developing a given institute. It is worth showing that we are building diversity here. So that ministers have a choice, the directors have a choice. And this is how this composition of the Łukasiewicz Research Network was created. As far as competition is concerned, indeed I guess I don't think too much about competition, and that's why it's like it's harder for me to answer that question. As a rule, we'd like to build a web-based cooperation. Today it seems to us that institutes in some situations are unnecessarily competing, weakening each other's positions. But now, instead of making two very similar applications to one counterparty, we can make one with a better offer and a greater use of opportunities. On the other hand, And I've talked about this before, answering a question. In the network itself, there will be some kind of reward mechanism for those who are more efficient, i.e. the moment of competition will certainly emerge. I hung the voice here because, in fact, the highest prizes in the network will be those commercialization effects, which are the result of cooperation. So the ideal project on the network is a project, which is not realized by one institute, but by several institutes, to which they can achieve goals that go even beyond the competence of one institute, because then clearly we have achieved and consolidation effect, and economies of scale. So that somewhere here there will be a balance between cooperation and competition, and I personally, when it comes to the words at "K," I am in favour of cooperation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u90	You're asking Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u91	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have three short questions. First. How many employees are going to count the research pawn, and how many pawns will the center support? If you can say it like that... The second question concerns legislative issues. It's in the article. 2 (2) 2 point 4 we meet with the concept of "know-how." And the question is whether, in a legal, non-public and non-scientific text, one can use such a concept at all, whether it is defined somewhere. This is a concept maybe from the common language, but the legal language is something else. Third question, probably the most basic question. Namely, the Council of the Centre consists of 5 members and a chairman. The Board's tasks include, above all, the annual designation of the activities of the Network, including the topics of research projects, and the Network's objectives. That's what Art. 1, among other things, we are honoured to carry out application research, development and basic research, including for the defence and security of the state. This is And I think you're right. Featured: for the defence and security of the state. Only that the Council does not include any person posted or appointed by the Minister for National Defence. The question is, what about this defense? Who's gonna decide on this defense? Because there are as many as 2 members appointed by the minister responsible for economic affairs plus the president. I'd say it's too much. and the representatives of the MON are not here, although defence issues are indicated for the purposes. Please answer these 3 questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u92	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! Thank you so much for the questions. As before, let me start from the end. First, the board members. The Council was constructed in such a way that representatives of all ministries who designated their institutes for the research network were part of it. In this way, ministers have not been deprived of the possibility to influence the institutes they had previously supervised, while at the same time being able to influence other institutes. Indeed, the issue of defence and security research has been highlighted here, and that is because we need a legal basis to be able to launch such research projects at all. The obvious thing is that they will simply be consulted. Anyway, in each of these cases, permission to launch a study... Or else: consent to the use of the results of these tests. We are probably already exploring a number of technologies that we do not even know can potentially be used in the area of security or defence. The Minister of Defence will agree to their commercialisation. Why is this unique position of the Minister responsible for economic affairs? As you have noticed, most institutes have been subject to supervision by the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology, which is responsible for the issue of the economy. Firstly, the largest number of institutes were under the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology, and secondly, which is much more important We spoke to the senator yesterday about this issue. It is intended to show clearly that these plans are to be prepared in response to economic needs. That is why the Ministry of Economic Affairs is indeed the host of the council. Actually, it will have a voice... well, I'm not going to say it's decisive, but it's the most important influence on Lukasiewicz's plans. De facto, in the absence of consensus, it will be a decisive vote. As far as know-how is concerned, the excessive use of foreign language phrases is indeed not the easiest, but this phrase already has its contents. None of the legal services have so far paid attention to the improperness of using it in a legal act, and since it allows us to identify specific needs and specific skills, we have decided to apply it here. As for the question about the research vertical and the support vertical, I would ask for clarification, because I don't know if I heard correctly. Is it the whole network, or is it just... [[The center, of course.]] The center is to be in the first phase of the unit... It's supposed to be a small unit at all. As you have noticed, the plan provides for up to 100 people to work in this centre, and we assume that it will be about 50 people. At this point, I am unable to say exactly what the proportion between the research department and the support department will be, but in the first phase of the organisation, the centre will focus on building a support facility for institutes rather than developing its own research. I think it's something that happens after the first year of operation when we identify all the needs that institutes have. Well, then we'll know what nature this research pawn is supposed to have and what we need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u93	Thank you, Minister. No further questions. Thank you, sir. I would like to say by the way that know-how is a foreign language phrase. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I'm informing your senators that no one has signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act on the Agency for Medical Research. The text of the Act is contained in print 1101, and the report of the committee In print No 1101 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Waldemar Kraska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u94	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Senate Health Committee the Act on the Agency for Medical Research. The establishment of a Medical Research Agency is justified by the need to provide funding for analyses and research in health care. Its creation will ensure the development of medical sciences and health sciences, as well as contribute to the growth of the innovation of Polish medicine. The role of the Agency will be to provide an appropriate source of funding for research based on scientific evidence in the management of medical and health care. The Agency will also support the development of research into medical sciences and health sciences and medical technologies, including non-commercial clinical trials on medicinal products and medical devices, as well as research on medicinal processes, epidemiological research and interventions, analysis and modelling of large public data collections in health care, and research on the management, development and optimisation of the health system. The Agency's key task will be to create comprehensive solutions for the development and revision of a health model compatible with the social and legal conditions of the Republic of Poland. The financing of the health care system should not be limited to health care services and to ensuring wider health safety. Each health system should provide health services with the highest possible degree of efficiency. This means that benefits should be based on the latest medical technologies and medicinal products and medical devices. Such a commitment requires research which will provide new system solutions. It is not sufficient or appropriate to base the national health system solely on solutions imported or purchased from external suppliers. A prerequisite for system efficiency is to seek solutions of its own and stimulate an innovative direction of research that will ensure the long-term development of medicine. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Clinical trials are currently particularly important for the development of medicine, which require the delivery of new medicines and medical devices. A particularly important role is played by the so-called. non-commercial studies, also referred to as secondary studies, which confirm or verify the effectiveness of medicinal products and medical technologies. Our country is a country with exceptional development potential in terms of the possibility of carrying out these studies. The requirements are high, but they are certainly possible to meet. The strength of the Polish health system is the qualified medical staff, which has great research potential and well-developed research infrastructure. The training of doctors in Poland is based on the highest standards. The scientific development of medical staff is also impressive and the number of doctors and specialists increases systematically. Achievement of such effects is a proof of the preparation and conduct of the highest level of research, therefore, also in response to the challenges faced by Polish medicine and health care system, it is necessary to set up an entity carrying out these tasks. During yesterday's meeting of the Health Committee, questions were raised as to the appropriateness of funding the Medical Research Agency from the National Health Fund, not from the state budget. The Minister explained this in a clear way about the stabilisation of grants. There were also questions from the Legislative Bureau. The Minister has clearly resolved these doubts. The Commission is asking for this law to be adopted in the vote without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u95	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have Janusz Cieszyński, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Janusz Cieszyński: No. Thank you.]] Thank you. At present, senators may request a representative of the government for a maximum of one minute from the place on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Blackbay. There you go. Mr. Minister to the stand, please. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u96	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Continuing yesterday's discussion, I would like to ask the Minister for an assessment. I've read the impact assessment you've prepared for this bill. I'd like to ask the Minister, if I may, once again. Now let me ask you this: is there anything that prevents the technology assessment agency or national health institute from pursuing those goals that are assigned in the draft law on the Agency for Medical Research? That's the first question. This question came to me after reading the impact assessment of the regulation you have prepared. And the second question is, could you say such a thing to the Minister... In the first year, as I read in the impact assessment, 50 million are planned for start-up as far as the budget is concerned. The target in 10 years is PLN 1 billion. Do you have a simulation of this? I'm talking about the target model in 10 years, because the start, I understand, must cost 1 billion PLN, what is the administrative value of this? After all, the costs for administration related to the agency must be borne; it is about wages, derivatives and other such things. What's the amount? And the third question: what will be the amount of support for innovative projects, let's call them in general, which will appear or may appear on the market in one year?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u97	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u98	Dear Senator, High Izbo! The first question concerned the performance of tasks that have been put before the Medical Research Agency by other institutions. This is where the senator pointed out the State Hygiene Institute and the Agency for Medical Technology Assessment and Tarification. Here it is worth noting that laws establishing both the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technologies and Tarification, as well as the National Institute of Public Health The purpose of these institutions is clearly indicated by the State Hygiene Facility. In both cases, this objective is separate from the objective of setting up an agency, which is to carry out innovative activities in health care. In the case of the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technologies and Tarification, the purpose of the Agency's operation is to assess the medical research that is being generated worldwide in order to generate an optimal basket of guaranteed benefits, to establish an appropriate level of tariffs. On the other hand, the State Hygiene Institute performs public health tasks. So these are just separate ranges. As I explained, this also applies to other institutions, e.g. National Science Centre or National Research and Development Centre. There's no common denominator. It is hard to imagine one of the existing institutions doing these tasks effectively. As regards the second question, i.e. administrative costs, it is worth noting that the amount of PLN 50 million, which is indicated in the impact assessment, concerns not only this administrative part. This administrative part related to the natural functioning of each institution... Here about the suggestions that have been made in the course of parliamentary work, both in the Sejm and yesterday at the committee meeting, as well as a little now in this first question, as to whether these tasks could not be carried out by other institutions, it is worth noting that the same costs in the proposed range of tasks would be incurred regardless of what institution would do, because it is natural that if there were any tasks to be carried out, they would cost them. Besides, the senator himself noticed it in his statement. Here the amount of administrative costs is estimated at PLN 9 million. It shall cover all costs related to the functioning of the Agency. And I must say, I expect that this amount will not be fully spent. Why? It's the end of February. The Senate is still working on the bill. If she is accepted without any comments, and I hope so, she will be sent to the President. If the President decides to sign it, it will be announced, published in the Official Journal of the Laws. It's all gonna take time. I think that really the Agency for Medical Research will be operational in March and, therefore, 1/4 of this budget, which we planned for the Agency's operation this year, will not be spent, because the amount of 9 million is envisaged, assuming that the Agency will operate throughout the year. As for the answer to the last question, which is how much we intend to allocate to this most important, crucial activity of the Medical Research Agency... It is worth noting that the key source of funding for the Medical Research Agency, especially in the field of non-commercial clinical trials, which are to be the most important objective of its smooth functioning, will be a write-off from the National Health Fund of 0,3% of the contribution paid. So you have to estimate that next year Because it is also worth remembering that in 2019 neither the Polish National Health Fund zloty will go to the agency, it will be approx. PLN 266 million.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u99	Thank you. Are there any further questions for the Minister? No one's checking in. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Blackbay will speak. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u100	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear guests! Previous draft law, creation in the field of innovation, support of what is probably the key to further stages of Poland's development, growth of research, innovative economy, i.e. increasing economic efficiency in Poland... Every kind of venture involved in this, as well as in health care, in medicine, is something that creates an economy of its own pros. But I'd like to focus on a few insights into building this whole system. In your three-year term, you created 18 different types of institutions at national level, the previous law speaks of the nineteenth, and the twenty such institutions. You have to say it's going well. But when you read the information about efficiency and innovation, you can see that it's worse. Because I want to assure you that none of the countries has been moving towards increasing the number of institutions that are involved in efficiency research and in increasing the amount of money and facilitating the flow of technology between operators, commercialisation, etc. The whole process, so to speak, is developed. Nowhere in the world has the system worked out, that, as we have a problem that exists, which has also been identified by the Supreme Audit Chamber, namely that the health research system is, to say the least, weak... The NIK report shows that support for research in medical sciences and health sciences is not a strong side of health protection. Therefore, trying to improve the efficiency of research, commercialisation, implementation, etc. It's important. But the question is... I checked that the bill was sent to 20 different institutes for an opinion. Me and the committee meeting, and now I've been asking what's relevant to the important area that's attached to this bill. Would it not be possible to connect to this task, which is planned in the context of the establishment of the Medical Research Agency, those already existing legal entities? When you read the statute of the National Centre for Research and Development, you can see that its tasks include: implementation of strategic research and research programmes. Well, all those things that are attributed to the Medical Research Agency, in my opinion and in my opinion many other people would be boldly attributed to existing institutions today. Even in the impact assessment, you write that both the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technologies and Tarification and the National Institute of Public Health do not achieve these objectives because there is no means to do so. So what the Minister said... Well, if we assign tasks, we assign resources, and in existing institutes it would probably be possible to achieve these goals. But you're going the other way. Well, the best way to deal with the problems you're facing is to set up a new institution. When there was a problem with non-governmental organisations, you set up a State National Freedom Institute, which monitors NGOs. As the problem is, pointed out by NIK regarding the weak support of medical science research, there is no analysis either, just... I didn't see anywhere. I didn't find an analysis of existing institutes. There was no attempt to find a functional solution, an economic achievement of this task. You've chosen the easiest path. I think 260 million, as the Minister said, you take directly from the National Health Fund, and this is money that should mostly or even be spent entirely on what is directly related to treatment. Of course, we can be different here. The Minister is talking about stability. Well, we take the money, in short, from the treatment and spend it on research support activities. Personally, I believe that all kinds of research should not reduce the amount spent on therapeutic tasks, but we may differ here. And this 9 million PLN is the result of the disproportionate costs we will bear in relation to the results. Well, we'll see. I will wait patiently for the results of this Medical Research Agency. I'll follow very closely in the future. Oh, my God. Retired. How fantastic this agency is going to develop. But it's not about the number of jobs. As I recall, Minister, there are, like, 100 jobs here, three deputies, vice presidents, presidents... Well, a fairly well-developed company at the expense of taxpayers, with a large part of the funds coming from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, as part of stable funding. And now, ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to raise a few more questions about the mode itself. Well, actually, there wasn't a law where you could talk about such a decent senate or parliamentary mode. Yesterday morning, no one knew we were going to investigate this bill. All of a sudden, please come, we'll proceed. Well, four senators are here, and the rest aren't. Turns out, anyway... [[5.]] Five? Oh, five, I'm sorry. Well, maybe I miscounted. Five's here, good score. 5 arrived, voted, and the bill passed without amendment despite various kinds of proposals, of which I will speak two words later. And it's about to be passed. So it's an old, proven model. Is there a problem? We're setting up a government institution, we're giving it money, we're implementing it extraordinarily, and you're signing it. We give 260 million and forward, hallelujah and forward! And nine million more for administration. And the results? Well, I didn't hear yesterday at the committee meeting, or today, from the grandstand that we're expecting exactly. Ladies and gentlemen, now two more words about this document. Yesterday, your patron, who gave an opinion on this bill, said that she was unable to assess the written bill submitted. I do not remember whether the President spoke about it by submitting a report because of a lack of time. And I ask you, what is it that rushes you to call this next institution tomorrow rather than the day after tomorrow? What's going on? What would happen if the Legislative Bureau had properly written comments and the Minister had time to analyze them? Not conclusively... okay, it's gonna be okay. This was yesterday's view of the proposals and comments made by the legislator. Ladies and gentlemen, when you compare the detailed tasks of the agency and the specific tasks of those institutions that I have mentioned, it is... Besides, as it is written in the impact assessment, these other institutions do not carry out these tasks because they do not have money for them. And as far as specific comments are concerned, I am not going to talk about everyone that your legislator was talking about, but I am going to draw attention, ladies and gentlemen, to one thing in the article. 19. Someone who's ever done this has started new projects through competitions, tenders, knows what procedure should be. Ladies and gentlemen, in short, what is this art? Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Two and three, which was mentioned by the legislator, is it? The conclusion is that if we announce a competition to support various kinds of scientific projects, then the President who announced this competition may accept the list submitted, may comment or refuse to accept it. There is another point that, after consulting the Council, the President may annul the competition. It's not like these things never fit in a document like this. It is clear from this, I spoke about it at the committee meeting, that it should simply be written: the president can do anything, announces the competition, end, period. Then, in the internal document, the powers of the President can be created. And there were at least 5 or 6 technical comments that your legislator pointed out. That is why I would like, Mr. Marshal, to make three amendments, together with Senator Duda, who will sign them at break. At the same time, for the reasons I have said, because it is not created to solve the problems of new government institutions, because this is the worst way to do so, it is not limited to the measures that are intended to promote health care and care in Poland, and it is not created in order to solve problems or develop innovation, because innovation is not created at tables, it is born in the minds of people conducting research or conducting business activities. We will not support this bill for these reasons either. Thank you very much. [[What if they go through the patchwork?]] I don't anticipate that, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u101	Senator Radziwiel's voice is yours. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u102	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'd start with polemics. Polish medical sciences are really very good and saying the opposite, and we just heard something like this, is just a duplication of some kind of... such a policy of shame, that's probably the best term. There's not much in which area Mr. Senator doesn't listen... [[I'm gonna...]] [[She's got divisive attention.]] [[Yes.]] You've got a lot of divisive attention, that's great. Anyway... [[I always listen to you.]] In any case, this policy of shame in this area of medical science is not only disgraceful, but is simply unsupported by any facts. It's a reproduction of some completely, sorry for the word, a pointless myth or... I don't know, it's just the other way around. Polish medical science is power. There's a lot of evidence for that. One of them is that in Poland there are more than 500 clinical trials on medicines per year, and it seems that there are few countries in which we are dealing with this situation. On the basis of other medical sciences, they are doing very well. This is also demonstrated by various types of rankings or categories of medical institutes, etc., etc. And about that, it's just not worth discussing. Is medical science at the expense of a taxpayer? Well, in some sense of course yes, but on the other hand it must be said that the situation of Poland growing in strength, growing, taking an increasingly prominent place in the community of nations, also requires such a place as the right one. Also in a formal way in medical science. But not as a project developer who comes to Poland from outside, they are commissioned and sponsored by others, but... Because it is in a sense a question of responsibility of Poland for the state of medicine in the world. It must be said that there are some elite groups of countries in the world where medical science develops on its own, and there is a great many other countries that simply benefit from the results of these studies. And I see it in such categories, in such a perspective. Poland is currently one of the highest developed countries and has certain obligations towards humanity in terms of developing medical sciences. It seems that the time has come for Poland as well. If not today, if not tomorrow, then at some point a completely new molecule, a new drug, a new method was developed. We have potential for this. It seems that in this sense the cost of the taxpayer The term here fell a few times, and it's worth it. It's kind of a general reflection when it comes to looking at learning expenditures at all. It is quite clear that these are not simple expenditures, but that is the investment. This is an investment both, I would say, metaphorically, i.e. This gives people who are seriously ill a chance to live a better life, and simply that their lives will be saved and their health preserved, as well as their investment directly, i.e. e.g. in the pharmaceutical industry in Poland, which is far better than many other industries. And it is quite clear that the creation of a wide range of facilities, including scientific facilities, for this industry, is such an investment directly. It is simply an area in which it is worth to see the great potential of Poland and therefore it is worth to take care of this area in Poland. In this sense, the taxpayer's cost is simply a reasonable spending of money In the broad sense of investment. Speaking of scientific research in medicine and various kinds of institutions that are involved in the financing and organisation of research in general, one has to see the existence of certain institutions... Here there has been a little confusion of such institutions which are directly in the health sector, such as the National Institute of Health, PZH or the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technologies and Tarification, which is not a scientific institution, which one has to note, with institutions which are not in the health service, but can somehow also finance research in the health service, e.g. NCBiR or NCN. I am not going to talk about those institutions that are in the health care system at the moment, because the Minister mentioned that the areas they deal with are simply separate from what is planned for the Medical Research Agency. I would focus for a moment on institutions such as the National Centre for Research and Development and the National Science Centre. These institutions have a slightly different character They finance research to be commercialised. It's a specific kind of operation. It doesn't seem like you can always look at it like that in medicine. The proof of this is also that very few medical projects find a way to... become a beneficiary of financing just from the NCBiR and the NCN. It seems that many teams of the Ministry of Health have already thought about how to solve this. I'm gonna make this quick here. The idea of creating a Medical Research Agency has been presented by Minister Szumowski practically since the beginning of his operation, and this project in one version or another is already known to us senators. Yes, he's on our bench today, but to those who are interested in it, he's been known for a long time. He was going through a big evolution in assist, I would say, a lot of media interest. So those who are at all concerned with this matter or are interested in it have had the opportunity to repeatedly do this project and now to look at the laws. And finally, the last point that I would like to mention is this specialty of medical research, the specifics that is, well, obviously, but it seems worth mentioning here. Well, a large part of medical research is a study involving people, patients, people, often people who have, so to speak, a poor perspective. Because in such areas mostly research is carried out People who look at these studies as an additional chance to save their health or their lives or improve their quality of life. And it seems that even for this reason it is worth at least partially seeing this problem, looking at it in such categories: that it is not research that happens in a laboratory, which in one way or another can be financed or organized, but it is something that is on the border of ordinary so-called. medical services or health and science services. And very often one on the other goes down. This is why a specific approach to this, including funding, is simply necessary. There are areas of medicine or social areas in which the pharmaceutical or medical industry, traditionally sponsoring most medical research, simply does not finance research. These are areas where interest is less, for various reasons. There is, for example. relatively few studies in relation to pediatrics, children, due to obvious limitations, higher levels, I would say, risk, social attention, etc., etc. Unfortunately, however, the result is that relatively few innovative medicines or innovative methods enter into the treatment of children. This, of course, is to the detriment of these small patients. Another area where relatively little or hardly any research is conducted is the issue of pregnant women, also for obvious reasons. The industry, which simply sees that, so to speak, a short business, often misses these topics at all. A similar situation applies to older people. And in an ageing population, this is a growing challenge for medicine. Because it turns out that a large proportion of medicines or other treatments are well tested in patients with one disease, while older people are often people who have many diseases and are just another subject. They can react differently to many different types of medical activities. So this is also an area slightly forgotten or overlooked by e.g. commercial sponsors. Finally rare diseases. It is so that the pharmaceutical industry in the world is very keen to invest money in research into hypertension, diabetes, depression and a few other diseases that are common, but very little interested in areas where the rate of return will simply be low due to the small number of people who are ill. And another very important issue is, for example. new applications already registered or existing medical methods or medicines in practice. It's not a traditional area either, so to speak, explored by industry. And, ladies and gentlemen, all this indicates that there is an extremely strong need for medical research so-called. non-commercial research, i.e. those where there is no chance that there will be business partners who will finance it. Because in practice, most medical sciences are funded today. And that's why two years ago we adopted certain solutions, well, such rescue solutions for patients who are unusual, non-standard in the form of emergency access to medical technology. But there is also a very urgent need In particular, I would like to draw attention to the tasks of the Medical Research Agency for conducting non-commercial research, i.e. those necessary to save future patients, but also those present, in non-standard and unusual situations. And for that, the Medical Research Agency is simply necessary. Therefore, it seems to me that there is no way that we are creating an institution that is unnecessary and risk spending funds that are badly consumed. In particular, this concerns measures that will flow from the National Health Fund to the treatment of non-standard patients who, on the one hand, are being treated and, on the other hand, subject to medical examination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u103	Thank you. You have a voice, Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u104	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister... I am also addressing Minister Radziwiłł, because I would like to make something more specific. Maybe I was misunderstood or I said something wrong. Minister, I do not recall saying any bad words about Polish science in the field of medicine, health care or the subject we are talking about. I quoted a document, which was also mentioned in the impact assessment by the author of the document, namely the NIK report. I read only a fragment, one sentence, such that supporting research in this field in Poland requires improvement. I mean, in general, I'm not gonna read the whole thing. This is fundamentally different from what you said, Minister. Basically. I don't deny it at all. I do not have enough knowledge to make any assessment regarding whether Polish medicine science is at a very high level, whether at a bad level or at a good level. I'm talking about the institution-building system. And if it's okay, I'm just happy for you. And now I'm talking about what document was used to build the bill. That's first of all. Secondly, Minister, of course I'm signing off on this. I'd like to say it again. "Everything that concerns people with rare diseases, civilization, and under the obligation of the state, we should support both research and treatment. However, I have doubts, and here we can be beautifully different, whether what concerns the cost of treatment and research, in particular research, should be charged to the National Health Fund. I don't think so. It should always be the domain of the state. The Minister said that he believed that the income from the national fund would be more stable than the revenue from the budget, because it was not known how politicians would react. But you can change that bill. That's the point. the perception of the fact from which it is financed. Now it's a matter of the law itself. Minister, you can probably keep track of how every bill is born. We shouldn't be holding committee meetings at all, just asking, have you been following this bill? And we'd say yes. And we wouldn't have noticed it. You could do it that way, and maybe it would be the best thing. For now, however, there is a procedure: there is a bill, the bill is passed in the Seym, there is a way to the Senate, the legislator has time to write comments, we have time to read the final form and long, passionately discuss everything, both during the committee meeting and the debate that is taking place here. This is the procedure I'm asking you to do. I urge you to apply it, because then the law will be better and you won't have to update the laws eight times. The first item of today's debate is the amendment of the Electricity Act and the related problems. This is precisely because we, Minister, address Minister Radziwiłł We do not follow simple parliamentary rules. If we had followed them, there would be time for many, many discussions, and the Minister would not have to say: we actually wrote it in the same spirit. That's what these explanations are for. If someone has problems interpreting the point I've told them about, they'll take the minutes of the discussion and read that that was the spirit of the bill. In our opinion, that's not the way it's supposed to be. What would be the final shape? Of course, it would depend on the vote. You're doing good statistics again. Used to be 77% , and now, as you told me in your previous sitting, 81% or even 88% the bills that go to the Senate shall be accepted without any amendments. Why doesn't he make any adjustments? Are all these laws so good? No. We just don't have time to process. We come, we read only what we read, and then, as one of the ideologists said, hallelujah and forward. With all my heart, I cordially wish you all this. Happy birthday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u105	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The legislative proposals have been tabled by Senator Blackobay. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on legislative proposals? No. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Health Commission to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the Principles for the Management of State Property and some other laws. The text of the law is contained in print No. 1094, and the report of the committee In print No 1094 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u106	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Commission dealt with this law yesterday. The bill was referred to by the current Secretary of State, Mr Paweł Srrot, who, after the introduction describing the proposed changes, turned to answering the questions asked. The idea of the proposed amendments is to delegate supervisory powers I'll take that as a shortcut; probably, as with any shortcut, I'm going to distort some details. The President of the Council of Ministers, the Prime Minister, is responsible for the operation of the Treasury companies. It's just in a very, very extensive context. There are many changes that will be made within the framework of all of this. There's a lot. It's a comprehensive bill, so there's a lot of them. During the committee meeting, two senators asked questions and expressed a separate opinion from the conviction that the proposed scope of the amendments discussed by your Secretary of State was correct. The two senators filed a minority motion for the proposed text of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u107	Thank you, Senator. I am now asking the minority rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, to present a proposal for a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u108	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! The management of the Treasury's property is a very important and responsible task. After all, it concerns the common good of our common assets. Therefore, clarity, transparency in the management of this property, diligence in its use is, of course, a cardinal issue. It has varied over the years with this management, because it concerns many areas of the functioning of the State, many state legal entities, including economic ones, and they are subject and still subject to different departments, different institutions. And there was always a dispute in Parliament, and every government had to make decisions. on how to coordinate these activities. There's been a lot of misunderstandings. It would seem, therefore, that, since it is on this subject, on this issue, and under the motto of creating rules for the management of property, the law will focus on these principles. But the title is confusing because there are hardly any rules here. Method Yes, it is. Way: who, what, like, etc. But it's far from the point of view. In general, the Act aims to give the Prime Minister greater competence in the management of property I understand that this is done in such a way as to coordinate the actions of the subordinate ministries and institutions and to take final decisions. But unfortunately, in our view and in our view of the Legislative Office, the provisions of this law do not lead to any controversy. On the contrary, because the statement that decisions are taken in agreement with the Minister means in the light of the law: with the agreement of the Minister. And this is even a curiosity situation, that the Prime Minister will really require the approval of a subordinate minister to make a decision. Unfortunately, the rush to proceed with the process, I think, is why the proposal to adopt the law without amendments was supported. And there's an obvious amendment. 'Cause even the minister and the government had to admit that in a semantic sense and in a real sense... But there is no change, and the amendments are not supported. The same is true when it comes to art. 3, where reference is made to shares acquired from the Capital Investment Fund, it is, of course, not only the acquired shares but also the shares covered. And the minister is right, it's about the area. But unfortunately, the bill goes unamended. The same is true of another place where it is said that it is possible to exchange shares in companies for other shares, the Minister claims that the understanding is that these are shares of the same value, but it does not have to be so. We propose that these issues be dealt with positively. Finally, I want to talk about a case that we haven't talked about much, which is important. It's in chapter 5a. Because I don't want to speak anymore, Mr. Marshal, I will raise this issue again. It's about the Capital Investment Fund. If this law concerned property management rules, this chapter would probably concern the circumstances under which, under what conditions, the Capital Investment Fund would acquire property of third parties. That would explain it, that would be the rules. And it's not like they haven't bought anything yet. But yes, it was bought quite recently, so it was possible. The problem is that this was done largely under the control of Parliament and with its consent. And here's the rule: we don't ask anyone. Well, unless that's the principle, we don't ask, we don't explain, we buy, because we want, we buy, because we want, and that's it. Such a principle emerges clearly from these provisions, one, only that we do not have to explain that we do not have to follow specific rules, in particular the principle of purpose. And if this was about buying a bank for a dollar, I'd say a little expense, a little business. But there will be a fund of 30% of each dividend paid, as well as advance payments on the anticipated dividend and many other funds, including from the Enterprise Restructuring Fund, and it seems that such funds should be subject to specific control, not to the President of the Council of Ministers, but to Parliament. That's not what's going on. And since it's possible to acquire shares, taking over some key companies today, I don't see the need at all to make such a fund extra. Not to mention the fact that creating funds is really breaking down the coherence of public finances. For years, the Polish Parliament has devoted itself to eliminating, reducing the number of funds. You create a fund after a fund. And why did we want to limit the number of these funds? That is why it is necessary to prevent self - control in the management of public funds. That is why I believe that this idea to give the Prime Minister a voluntary decision on what, when, on what terms he is to be acquired 'Cause there's almost nothing in this bill about rules, as I say. It is simply to be removed from this law. Nothing's gonna happen if this Capital Investment Fund isn't there. It will continue to be possible to take care of the State Treasury, only that under much greater, in my opinion, control than is proposed today. I therefore make these amendments, which have been the subject of a minority proposal once again, and I add one more, concerning the deletion of Chapter 5a of the Capital Investment Fund.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u109	Thank you, senators. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to speak? Senator Rybicki has come forward. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u110	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have two questions, the first to the senator of the minority rapporteur, and the second to Senator Pekkis, the rapporteur of the majority. Mr. Senator, if I understand it correctly, and it's a little astonishing to me, the Capital Investment Fund, which gives such a huge centralization of decisions in the hands of the Prime Minister... It can be said that the Prime Minister will be able to purchase from this fund, where the value of the accumulated funds is estimated at about PLN 2 billion. shares of companies of the Treasury. One can argue whether such an instrument is needed or not. There's pros and cons. But wasn't there really a question during the committee's deliberations about the principles and standards of functioning of this fund? Because I understand that we need to help the national railroads, the strategic institution, and possibly some intervention, but I wouldn't be able to understand. Maybe this was the subject of your consideration. For these measures to be used for activities such as: recolonization of the company Polskie Koleje Linowe, because this is no longer considered by all economic analysts as a reasonable move. Were such examples given as to what these measures might go to and how this tool in the Prime Minister's hands should be regulated and standardised?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u111	I'll disappoint the senator, but I'm afraid not. There was no discussion on this at the committee meeting. The meetings were one after another and were under quite a lot of pressure. So, unfortunately, there hasn't been a conversation about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u112	Would Senator Pekkis like to speak on this matter again? [[I, if I may, Mr. Marshal, have a slightly different question for Senator Pakkis.]] [[Maybe I'll add it as a supplement...]] Mr. Senator, just a moment, maybe you'll ask the senator a question and then you'll answer collectively. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u113	Mr. Senator, I'd like to ask you about the Capital Investment Fund. Are the committees presented not only the operating rules but also the costs of the fund itself, i.e. how it will be organised, how many people will work in this fund, what will the operating costs of the fund be, such administrative and organisational operations? And this is the question I asked earlier about the lack of clear rules for the functioning of the fund in terms of market interventions or stock purchases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u114	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u115	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, this question has not just been asked, perhaps because there was only one Senator from the Platform present at the committee meeting, the rapporteur present, who did not ask such a question directly. Nevertheless, the fact is that the Secretary of State, present here, has talked a little bit about this earlier. But as part of his speech. There was no such question, so there was no such answer. And I think the current Secretary of State will be very kind. That's your question... Because it wasn't at the committee meeting, in fact, as you put it, it wasn't.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u116	Thank you. You're asking Senator Florek a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u117	Thank you very much. Question for both Senator and rapporteur. Indeed, the law adapts the laws, but what is particularly important to us is these new regulations we are talking about, that is, what has just been discussed: the Capital Investment Fund and what the rapporteur has said is that this is more supervision by the President of the Council of Ministers. So the President of the Council of Ministers is back here. further tasks. I am mainly asking about financial matters, financial aspects of this activity. I'm no longer asking what a fellow senator asked about this number of employees, what it's going to look like. But since the state wants to be an investor, it wants to buy companies, I don't know, nationalize, run a recolonization, which means it wants to state companies... Well, that's because that's the way this bill works. And the revenues of those companies you were talking about, i.e. contributions from the profits of the companies, 30% are determined. dividends paid, etc., etc. And then we have further mentioned in the Act that the funds of the fund are intended for the acquisition or holding of shares by the State Treasury, represented by the President of the Council of Ministers. Here, of course, I could ask whether there is such a need to acquire the share of the State Treasury, whether there should be less state in the economy and whether there should be a reverse trend. Yeah, but you think it's right to go in that direction. And my question is, then, the following. If we have any revenue planned I think they've been calculated somehow, because I think we know how many companies we have in the Treasury. And for that we have the resources that will be allocated... I would mean what revenue we're talking about, how much money it's going to be, how much money it's going to cost to buy, how much stock it's going to cost. Was that mentioned at the committee meeting? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u118	There you go, gentlemen of the Senators, one at a time.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u119	I will answer honestly: there was no question, because the question asked extensively by the Senator here did not ask such a question. The rest of the committee was not so deeply interested in this. But I will say that yes, it is, as the senator put it, consistent implementation of both the promises and, later, the provisions of the current government. And, yes, we're going in that direction where... We want you to control strategic companies of the Treasury. One of the problems of everyday life may be the situation in which companies of the State Treasury, listed in the catalogue of companies of the State Treasury, have shares, sometimes majority, in companies not listed in the catalogue of companies of the State Treasury, for example. inspection of their documents by the senator is not permitted as they are not included in the list of companies of the Treasury. But this is, I think, a problem that may be developed by the Secretary of State here. In fact, such a problem was not solved at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u120	Is there anything else the senator would like to add to this answer? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u121	Yes, indeed, indeed... In general, the management of the State Treasury property can and should be discussed for many hours. In general, we are rather excited about the next series of staff changes in companies, which would indicate that other managers are constantly dissatisfied with how they manage this property. There are others coming and others coming and others coming, and it is clear that in many cases it is more about boys and influence than about good governance. I am afraid that the Capital Investment Fund will also be a way to ensure that other companies that are not necessarily necessary for the common service, which is important for the common good, are on the state board, which has many times proved less effective than the private one. So that we probably differ in these assessments and in this approach. But I'm watching what's happening. There are lists of companies showing that staff changes have already occurred four times or five times. And I understand that if there's a change, someone's unhappy. Right? So it doesn't look good.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u122	Thank you, Senator. I don't see any more requests for questions... [[May I, Mr. Marshal... excuse me, may I have a moment more?]] Yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u123	I absolutely disagree and I would also like to say that what a fellow senator has just said 'Cause it's his opinion. There was no talk at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u124	Thank you very much, senators... [[There's a question.]] There's another question. Senator Florek. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u125	Well, then I'd like to ask you a question. Since the funds of the fund are intended to be used for the acquisition, holding of shares of companies of the State Treasury by the President of the Council of Ministers, I would like to know if you spoke at the committee meeting. 'Cause I suspect there must have been a business plan. On how many companies and how many companies are concerned. How many of these companies are there? How many Treasury companies do we have today, after all the privatisations we've had? What's the status here? And so how many of these companies could possibly benefit from this fund? What's the size scale here anyway? Was there a conversation about that?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u126	Mr. Senator Pekkis.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u127	Here again... We weren't talking about scale. But the Minister is here, the Secretary of State, so...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u128	Thank you very much, Senator. Are there any further questions? I don't see any calls. Thank you, senators. The bill was filed by the government. The Secretary of State of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, Mr Michał Dworczyk, was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Paweł Szrot, Deputy Head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, is present with us. Would the Minister like to speak? Yes. You're welcome. Let's go to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u129	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank the rapporteur here for his comprehensive... [[Senator's voice.]] Mr. Senator, if you'll excuse me. Forgive me, I've spent a long, long time in the Lower House working on this bill, which is why I made this completely freudian mistake. I would like to thank the rapporteur. As far as the justification of the project is concerned, I would just like to remind you that it has been 2 years since the adoption of the Law on the Principles for the Management of State Property and what the High House is investigating today, that is the accident of conclusions and reflection after the 2-year operation of this law. It has already been pointed out that the amendment partially grants new powers to the President of the Council of Ministers And that's also mostly more precise, like for example. in the case of the transfer by the President of the Council of Ministers of powers to exercise rights from shares belonging to the Treasury. Here, the amendment explicitly states that this will take place under the Council of Ministers Regulation. Of course, the Capital Investment Fund is being created, as has already been widely discussed. To discuss the statements, positions, questions and opinions that have been tabled today in the framework of the debate of the High House, I would like to point out that yesterday at the committee meeting we had a very constructive discussion with the representatives of the Legislative Office. I always appreciate these discussions as a lawyer, they always develop me professionally, because the Senate Legislative Office is known for its reliability, meticulousness. But I have the impression that all the things that have been the subject of the misunderstanding between us... that most of these things have been cleared up with the patron of the Legal Office, including those of the amendments that Senator Augustine held up as a representative of the minority of the committee. We are in favour of maintaining the Government's submission, also with regard to the addition of the wording of the subscribed shares in Article. 3 (6). Here I would like to remind you that we have modelled on the current provisions of the Commercialisation Act and some of the employees' rights. We simply meant to repeat the measurable, actual, real effect that has been achieved in this bill and to move it to our bill. There's nothing else we're after. Concerning the amendment in Article. 6, in Article 2, the following paragraph is added: The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 5, it is also here that we believe that this change is not necessary, because the essence of replacing the shares or shares held in the wealth stock of the State Treasury with other shares or shares consists of equivalent benefits and equity rights. Of course, we fundamentally disagree with the amendment made by Senator Augustine regarding the liquidation of the Capital Investment Fund. This fund is a new instrument needed to implement the economic policy of the State, for the active participation of the State in the economy. Therefore, we are against this amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u130	Currently, the senators may submit requests to the representative of the government relating to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Rybicki, and then Senator Florek. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u131	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, the law extends the list of companies whose shares and rights from shares of the Treasury are not subject to disposal. These companies are enumerated. At the moment, proceedings are under way in the European Commission concerning the acquisition of Lotus, the Lotus refinery by the company, the capital group of Orlen. Let me remind you that in Orlena the State Treasury has about 27% shares, and in Lotus it has 53% shares. Would it not be appropriate from the point of view of the state's energy security that Lotus as a company which is fully controlled by the State Of course, knowing the proportions, it is well known that this would require proper legal and financial instrumentation, and that Orlen took over rather than the other way around? And if the government is consistent in order for Orlen to take over Lotus, shouldn't Orlen be included in the register of companies whose shares are not subject to disposal? 'Cause otherwise, it's 27%. Shares in Orlena are not enough to look at the energy security of the state in the future with peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u132	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u133	Mr. Senator, that's what I'd like to declare here that no one is going to get rid of Orlen's actions. That's one thing. [[Today isn't...]] Not today. And the government that I have the honour to represent is a guarantee. And that declaration too. Remember that. When it comes to the sequence of Lotus taking over Orlen, there are already some letters of intent. I could only say that such a sequence is justified because of the size of companies. If I may, Senator... Because the senator also asked a question, it seems, about the functioning of the Capital Investment Fund and about the costs of this operation. I would like to refer to the question you have asked the rapporteur, only to say that it is of course called a fund and is a fund within the meaning of the provisions of the Public Finance Act, but in fact it will be an account, a bank account in BGK, so there will be no additional costs associated with the operation of this fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u134	Senator Florek. [[I'd like to ask...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u135	Thank you. Minister, in general, the question of how this is justified would have to be justified by this Capital Investment Fund, to answer why it is actually introduced. I'd have questions for the Minister. How many companies of the State Treasury or companies in which the State Treasury has its shares at the moment? What is the condition of these companies? How many companies are in bankruptcy, and how many are in privatisation? Because I understand that this will be the starting point for these actions. And what changes will be made to this fund? What do you think? How many companies of this... To what extent will the President of the Council of Ministers want to benefit from the Capital Investment Fund? What kind of money are we talking about? That's what I asked you, too. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Yes, I remember.]] It's all about influence and possible spread. And then there's the question that the senator asked at first. How will the Capital Investment Fund work in terms of cast, people, costs, overall actions? Because this is another fund created in Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u136	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u137	Mr. Senator, as regards the costs, the tasks of the fund and its staff, I have already given such an answer after asking Senator Rybicki. And as for the number of companies under our regime... Well, maybe it's not the best formulation; it's the companies covered by the rules provided for by the law, which we're proceeding with today. There's 350 of them right now. As regards details of companies in bankruptcy and restructuring We will reply in writing here, Senator. It's dynamic, so we need to prepare that information. As regards the planned receipts and the amount of the fund's financial resources, I would like to say that according to the rules that are foreseen The dividend payments, the profit, we are counting on the fact that these revenues will amount to several hundred million zlotys on an annual basis, closer to 0.5 billion than 1 billion. It's a scale. Mr. Senator, that's pretty much it. Please accept...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u138	Thank you. Senator Rybicki reporting in. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u139	Thank you. I just want to ask you something, Minister, because you didn't give me the answer to some of the questions I asked. I mean... I will return to the question of Lotus taking over by Orlen and security in the future. You say as long as there's a government of law and justice... Well, there is, and still will be, but it doesn't change the situation that, from the point of view of energy security, the reverse situation, that is, taking Orleno by Lotus, would be safer for you in the future, because in Orlena the State Treasury has 27%. , and in Lotus 53%. Have you even considered such a option? And if not, why is Orlen not included in this register of companies which are not subject to disposal under the rule of this law?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u140	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u141	Mr. Senator, I'm very sorry, but I have a proposal that you may, as part of a senator's inquiry, make a request to the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers for this information. These are serious matters, and I wouldn't want to see you here in the whirlpool... [[I will simply say, on behalf of a group of dozens of parliamentarians, that I have asked the Prime Minister and I have not received an answer on this matter.]] We'll check it out. I declare that I will explain... [[So I'm going to repeat this question again. Thank you.]] Sure. Please. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u142	Thank you. You're asking Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u143	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, short question. There was an article in the old text. 14, which prohibited the transfer or donation of shares of the State Treasury in companies of importance for the economy, for local government, for local government units. Is it in the new text? Is that it? And if not, why not?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u144	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u145	Mr. Senator, I feel like there's nothing different about this here about... I might be wrong because it's already... [[I just feel like it's changed. I'm sure it's not in the new article. 14. Perhaps it's placed somewhere else, but I'd ask you to explain it.]] We'll give you an explanation... [[If you've given up on this, of course, then I have a question about why.]] We'll give you an explanation, either in writing or at the committee meeting, which we'll be waiting for if we meet. [[Well, in writing, please.]] Sure. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u146	Thank you. Are there any further questions? I don't see any calls. Thank you. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Thank you.]] I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to provide a written answer to the questions asked by Senators Flork and Czerwinski. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. I would like to inform you that you have submitted proposals of a legislative nature in writing to Senator Augustine. The discussion is closed. As legislative proposals have been tabled, I would like to ask whether the Minister would like to respond to them. I know that in the course of the introductory statement... [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: I have already responded.]] The Minister still doesn't want to speak. Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on National Economy and Innovation to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Law amending the telecoms law and certain other laws. The text of the law is contained in print 1093, and the report of the committee In print No 1093 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Jack Włosowicz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u147	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Yesterday, the Infrastructure Commission discussed the law on amending the telecoms law and certain other laws. It was a government project. It entered the Sejm at the beginning of this year and on 21 February the Sejm voted it, followed by a bill addressed to the Upper House. The aim of the project was mainly to implement European law, because the European Commission has accused us of some kind of irregularities or shortcomings in the application of the current directives. This concerns mainly the 2002 Directives, the 20, 21, 70 and 77 Directives, but also the newer directives, in particular the 2014 Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council and the 2017 Decision of the European Parliament and of the Council. What's in the new directives? The main aim is to prepare for 5G technology, i.e. the fifth generation of mobile telephony, to release the so-called. 700 MHz band, specifically the band from 694 MHz to 790 MHz. It is currently occupied by other owners in different countries, and this band should be released and it should be released not only in the European Union but also in neighbouring countries, so that there are no conflicts, any interference. During the committee meeting, the Deputy Minister and the representative of the Office for Electronic Communications presented the legal and technical details of these proposals. The Legislative Office has submitted 4 proposals for amendments. Of these proposals 3 have been taken over, 2 by Senator Bear and 1 by Senator Flork. In addition, you have made two amendments to Senator Bear. Both those submitted by Senator Bear and those taken over by him were voted yes and Senator Flork's amendment was not accepted. In addition, in the discussion, Senator Florek, in addition to the fact that he had tabled amendments, said that he had been sent a block of amendments from the Confederation of Leviathan. We as senators did not get these proposals for amendments. The secretary of the committee told us that these proposals for amendments had not been brought to them either. The Minister, on the other hand, said that she knew these proposed amendments. We've come to the vote. As a result of the vote, 4 for, 1 against, 1 abstained, the proposal was accepted. Therefore, Mr Marshal, the committee is asking the High House to adopt the attached law.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u148	Thank you. Currently, the senators can report from the place of the inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question? No one's checking in. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Digitisation has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. We have the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Digitalization, Minister Wanda Buk. Would the Minister like to speak? Come on up to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u149	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Dear Senators! As the rapporteur said, today I am pleased to present to you the law on amending the telecoms law and certain other laws. As stated earlier, this is an amendment resulting primarily from infringement proceedings initiated by the European Commission against Poland as a Member State, and is linked to a breach of 3 directives. But not only because the draft amendment we are discussing today introduces legislation that aims to improve the efficiency of radio spectrum management and to ensure an increased interest in the deployment of new technologies in the telecommunications market, including, of course, the upcoming fifth generation network technology. I would like to stress here that the frequency management, which is a rare good, is crucial today for the development of the entire telecommunications market and therefore also for the development of the Polish economy. The changes we have proposed equip the President of the Office of Electronic Communications, the regulator of the telecommunications market, with competences that will allow him to manage frequencies efficiently in a large part. Of the most important records that we enter... I would like to draw attention to some of them. We have introduced an obligation to consult. This is the result of the reference... this is the answer to one of the main allegations raised by the European Commission. It concerns the obligation of extensive consultation of stakeholders by the President of UKE when a change of frequency is planned. Another very important issue is to facilitate the so-called. reshuffling process, extension of premises. This means that the President of the Communication Office of Electronic Communications will be able to regulate the spectrum through the provisions that are being amended in such a way that the most modern technologies can be introduced. A very large part of the provisions of the Act concern selection proceedings, i.e. mainly about auctions. It follows from the experience of the 2015 auction at the 800 MHz frequency, the course of which the interested parties know. We know that there were a lot of European Commission charges against this procedure, and there were many irregularities that later translated into the final result of the auction. A number of records, as I said, are about ordering these issues. The possibility of declaring selection procedures for the resources still occupied is also introduced. This is a very important change, because, as I said, frequencies are the good of less and less. The rules that we are introducing allow the President of the Office of Electronic Communications to initiate proceedings in relation to those frequencies that are still occupied, but we know when they will be available. This means a smooth transfer of use to another entity at a time when the period of use will end to the one with a given frequency today. There is another very important issue that aroused a lot of emotion yesterday. She also aroused these emotions in the Seym. I'm talking about the frequency distribution schedule. In accordance with the provisions of the Act, the Minister responsible for Information Technology has the possibility to impose a timetable for the distribution of frequencies on the President of the Office for Electronic Communications. I have referred several times here, during the entire legislative procedure, to the allegations that have been made. I hope that I will no longer have to refer to them today, because we discussed this very thoroughly yesterday. I would just like to remind you that the proposal was positive in both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the European Commission's working arrangements. Because the entire project was consulted on an ongoing basis with the European Commission. I ask your senators very much to support the bill. This law is important and necessary because, above all, the frequency in the 3.4-3,8 GHz band requires immediate action by the President of the Office of Electronic Communications and the ordering of the band, which is covered today. At the same time, I would like to thank the members of the committee, Mr President, for the very smooth conduct of the committee meeting yesterday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u150	Currently, the senators may submit requests to the representative of the government relating to the agenda item. Are there any such questions? Senator Florek. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u151	However, Minister, I'll take it and maybe I'll ask you a different question than yesterday, then. I mean, of course, this art. 1 point 2, which I proposed to delete. Unfortunately, the committee had a negative reaction. It is, of course, about this added provision, that in the article. The following paragraph shall be added: 4. And that's exactly what you were saying: that the Minister responsible for IT can define a timetable for distribution, etc., etc. by means of a regulation. That rule obviously wasn't there, it's a new recipe. I have a question, ma'am: isn't it sometimes such a gateway, or do you want to shift responsibility for any failure to study?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u152	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u153	I think it's more about taking on this responsibility to a large extent by the Minister responsible for computerization. Because... well, I can't agree with that, Mr. Senator. Because for today... The situation is quite complicated today. I'll explain it in three words. This is from our point of view so that the Polish state, as a member country, is responsible for the implementation of the provisions of the European Commission, not only of international agreements but also of other documents which are produced as strategic documents at international level. I'm not just talking about e.g. Parliament's decision on the 700 MHz frequency, which we talked about yesterday, but also e.g. on the objectives of the Digital Agenda for Europe. However, the government has no tools to achieve these goals. Because such tools are available to the telecoms regulator. And here in our assessment there is no possibility, there is no, so to speak, link, there is no closure of this system that would allow the government to translate these commitments into a regulator. Here yesterday, the Director of the Office of Electronic Communications raised an argument about international obligations that apply to all entities in the country concerned. In response to this, I have just cited an example of the European Digital Agenda, which says that in 2020 there must be at least one city in each EU country where 5G technology will be commercially available and in 2025 it will be the main trade routes and all major cities. To introduce this technology Now, of course, I'm simplifying the whole process. It is necessary to distribute the bands that are in specific frequency blocks, intended at international level for precisely this technology. And this distribution of bands is handled by the regulator. The tool in question will allow the government to impose a timetable which, in colloquially speaking, will align itself with these objectives of the Digital Agenda for Europe. I imagine it in such a way that the Minister responsible for IT in the schedule will propose such a solution, which will allow a fifth generation network to be launched in 2020 in at least one European Union country... I cannot therefore agree with the fact that the Minister is ceding this responsibility to some other entity, because the government and the Member State will be accountable as much as possible for the implementation of the Digital Agenda for Europe and its international commitments, and we cannot give up this responsibility in any way.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u154	Are there any further questions? Senator Florek continues. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u155	All I'm going to say is that I'm going to impose a timetable, like you said, and I'm going to impose a regulation, and this regulation is a law that's already in force... I mean, if you put in a schedule that's gonna be hard and impossible... So far such schedules have not been needed and UKE knew what to do, what to do. I'm afraid, among other things. That's why I said that in my question. That it would be a certain gateway for the ministry, so that if something didn't work out, it might say: we did, and they didn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u156	No questions asked. Senator Włosowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u157	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a technical question. If you can answer them... We talked mostly about the 700 MHz band, but fifth generation technology goes into gigahertz. If you could explain this... Because it is known that the greater the frequency, the smaller the shorter the waves, the shorter the waves, the easier their modulation, the easier their modulation, the easier it is to transmit data, but it makes it easier to... [[Mr. Senator, I'd like to know if this is the subject of the bill.]] Well, we talked about these bands, and if we're gonna have a 5G that they say goes in gigahertz, it's like... [[I'd like you to formulate a question...]] ...it translates... So far, we're going to slow down the megahertz band, but how does that apply to those higher frequencies?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u158	Minister, please. understandably explain it to us, and briefly.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u159	Ladies and gentlemen! Currently, with regard to fifth generation technology, three bands have been allocated. The first one is the 26 GHz band, that's the highest band, the biggest one is the suppression of these waves. These are very short distances. We actually call it... Well, if I say it's Wi-Fi, it's not gonna be true, but it's a band that's going to be designed for very small areas, it's got very short reach. It'll probably be used locally, e.g. to the economic zones, to the factories. There's a second band, a 3.4-3,8 GHz band. The law we are talking about today gives the President of the Office of Electronic Communications a tool to run 5G technology primarily in this band. And there's the 700 MHz band, and here the wave propagation is the biggest. It's so-called. Cover band. This is the band that will most likely be available in Poland in 2022. I would also like to point out that the fact that these bands are intended at international level for these technologies does not mean that operators will only run these latest fifth generation networks based on these technologies. This was the case with LTE, which was launched by one of the Polish operators. There is no point in quoting the name of this operator in this room so as not to promote it, but it has launched LTE on the 2G band. So it's not like... this technology can function on different bands, but then the architecture of the network will look different, and the port will look different. I hope that's understandable.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u160	You're asking Senator Bear.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u161	Minister, I have such a brief question. The question is whether the introduction of 5G technology will involve the introduction of so-called. Internet of things.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u162	And yes and no. Why? Dear Senators, what is the Internet of Things really? We can understand it as a very advanced system of devices that function e.g. in the city, but if we look at a little less advanced needs, then the Internet of things also includes a Roomba vacuum cleaner, which is in the apartment of some of you. Right? This is the first step to this Internet of things. Nevertheless, the Internet of Things in its target form will be based on a very large data transmission, and the fifth generation network actually allow the use of equipment in the way it is intended to function, e.g. smart city. This is a technology that allows us to use frequencies very effectively. This network is much, much more efficient, so given that this data transmission is growing from year to year... Let's take the phones you have. Any minute now, even now that you're not using them, this transmission is happening. And it will grow, so in the end my answer is yes, which does not rule out the operation of the Internet of Things in LTE technology. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u163	Thank you. Are there any more questions? You're welcome, Mr. Jerzy Czerwinski. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u164	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have two questions. The first concerns one of the reasons why we need to adopt this law. Namely, we were reprimanded by the European Commission. [[Undersecretary of State at Wanda Buk's Ministry of Digitalization: Yes.]] But here are the directives, I see, even from 2002. Why did this reminder come so late? What happened in the meantime? Was this caused by some of our new actions, or by the events that have been going on since 2002? That's the first line. And the other is perhaps a little bit more related to this 700 MHz band. Is it being used at the moment? If so, the question is: for what and by whom? By some kind of service. Or by private broadcasters? You said it wouldn't be available until 2022. What does that tell you? [[Undersecretary of State at Wanda Buk's Ministry of Digitalization: I'm on it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u165	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u166	As to why we are making these modifications so late, something happened in 2015. For the first time and so far the only selection procedure in the form of auctions was carried out in Poland, just in relation to the 800 MHz frequency. And what happened during this auction, i.e. the entry of the entity that artificially conquered the price, and not receiving the reservation, resulted in the formulation of allegations against Poland concerning incorrect implementation of the directive. There's been a lot of interaction since then. As I said, the draft law was constantly consulted with the European Commission and the Commission referred to whether these new provisions proposed by us would be appropriate. The result is that today we are proposing this amendment to you. I think I've responded quite comprehensively. As for the second question, the 700 MHz frequency is today used by television. It looks the same across our continent. I said 2022. Why? Because a decision has been made to change the use of the band on which television operates today. And there are two dates. As a general rule, destiny should be changed by the end of June 2020, but it is possible to postpone this deadline by 2 years until the end of June 2022, and we are taking advantage of that possibility. I'll explain why. It is true that the whole world is coordinating when it comes to using frequencies so as not to interfere with each other. There will be a change in the destiny of the 700 band across the continent. The European Union has committed itself to deadlines here. It set a deadline until 2020 and absolutely by 2022. Other countries outside the European Union are not obliged to do so, so those countries bordering such countries, namely Poland, must take into account what will happen on these frequencies abroad. The problem is that Poland will be... If the Russian Federation does not change the destination of this band, our frequencies will be jammed and we will not be able to use them effectively. As a result, we are now conducting cross-border coordination, which is also done by the President of the Office of Electronic Communications, which aims to coordinate with the Russian Federation, which will allow the use of the 700 band. This problem naturally does not have other countries, more to the west. But there are also several others that are kind of disturbed, e.g. Slovakia or the Czech Republic. [[If you don't mind, Mrs. Marshal, I'd like to ask you a question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u167	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u168	This will be very important for our eastern areas. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Digital Wanda Buk: Not only the Eastern.]] Question: whether this applies only to the Russian Federation or to other countries that were based on the Russian Federation, e.g. Ukraine and Belarus?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u169	This also applies to other countries. We need to coordinate with them, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u170	Are they willing to coordinate? We know life. Some countries are equal and some are equally equal, or at least attribute this property to themselves. [[Undersecretary of State at Wanda Buk's Ministry of Digitalization: Depends...]] I'm sorry, I could explain what I mean. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Digital Wanda Buk: Sure.]] The point is that we should not be in such a situation that the Union will require something from us, we will agree to it, and then we will have to divide the area of the country and introduce two standards, one which would kind of coincide with a state that will be beyond the eastern and northern borders and the other EU-wide. Aren't you afraid of that?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u171	Mr. Senator, you've clearly diagnosed the situation. In fact, there's a risk. It will perform until destiny changes. I can say that recently the countries that are neighbouring us on the eastern border have expressed a desire to coordinate in time, which is very good news for us. At the same time, we have asked for support for the bodies of the European Union, pointing out exactly what the senator said, that it cannot be equal and equal across the Union. If we don't change the band's destiny, we're gonna disrupt our western neighbours. This is the system of naturally connected vessels. And that's where the backup was declared. I, to be honest, hope no one in the Russian Federation listens to this, even though they probably listen. [[I'm sure.]] We hope that all this will be coordinated over time and that by June 2022 this coordination will take place. We asked for a derogation because we realized that it was practically unrealistic to do so by 2020.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u172	Thank you. Are there any more questions for the Minister? There isn't. Minister, thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State at Wanda Buk's Ministry of Digitalization: Thank you.]] Has anyone signed up for the discussion? [[Yes, Peter Florek.]] Good. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I'll ask Senator Piotr Flork to speak. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u173	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendment of the Act aims to modify the rules on frequency management, radio equipment and charges for such frequencies. This is mainly due to the Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council on the authorisation of electronic communications networks and services, on a common regulatory framework for electronic communications networks and services, on competition in the markets for electronic communications networks and services, and on the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States and on the use of the frequency band, 700 MHz frequency, in all Member States, as the Minister has just said. The amendment aims to increase the efficiency of radio spectrum management and to ensure that new technologies, including 5G technologies, are introduced on the market. The amendment of the law introduces a number of significant changes, and one of these changes confers on the Ministry responsible for computerization powers to define, by means of a regulation, a timetable for the distribution of frequencies for the implementation of State policy in the area of frequency management. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate that took place at the committee meeting... At a committee meeting, a representative of the Office for Electronic Communications said that it was a binding regulation but not feasible and that it was a harmful provision. It's the Electronic Communications Office. In our view, the Electronic Communications Office should remain independent, it is as competent as possible to decide on frequency distribution issues and has so far done so. There were no comments. The Minister said that it was the ministry's job to close the system, and according to UKE it could not withstand the impact on reality. There will be a regulation in the legal trade, which is, as I said, a law that will not be enforceable as regards UKE. This is an unnecessary recipe. As I recall, you have even used the phrase that this is a harmful provision. For this reason, there was a complex amendment by me concerning the fact that in Article. 1 delete point 2 which says that in Article. The following paragraph shall be added: 4 as follows: the Minister responsible for computerization may determine, by means of a regulation, the timetable for the distribution of certain frequency resources used as civil or civil-government uses, taking into account... And here's three points, but maybe I won't read it. This amendment, the motion to delete this point, which could actually be done without any problem and damage to the whole amendment, has not been recognised. I was wondering... I've got it right here. But I'm just wondering because there would be an additional committee meeting. I couldn't file a minority request because I'm the only member of the Infrastructure Committee who... At the last meeting, you voted in such a way that the person who was to go to the Committee on Infrastructure did not receive support. Therefore, I could not submit a minority application. Well, that is still the case today, but I hope that today, during the vote, there will be a change and this possibility, the opposition will be able to make a request from the minority. Now it's impossible. Therefore, I would just like to stress that such a request was made, a minority request... I mean, it's not a minority request, it's a motion from me... I will not make this request again, because the result is rather predictable, I would just like to point out that it is known that in this article. Point 2 should be deleted. There was one further comment on the possible additional amendments tabled by Leviathan. It turned out, and I spoke about it at the meeting, that the Ministry was supposedly aware that these amendments were sent by e-mail to only 3 people, i.e. Mr. Chairman of the committee, me and Mr. Senator Grubski. There were 13 more amendments, but time did not allow it to be possible at all... The representative of Leviathan did not present these amendments at the committee meeting, and because of how We proceed, that is, from hour to hour and from day to day, there was no possibility of discussing these amendments. That wasn't an option because no one called them in, and I didn't either, because I didn't know... I would just like to point out that what was said in the committee's report has actually happened. Of course, it doesn't have any effect on our procession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u174	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Bear. Yes? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u175	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I just want to make a brief reference to yesterday's committee meeting. These amendments, which Mr Leviathan had tabled, were not officially addressed to the committee. The representative of Leviathan was at the committee meeting, but was not eager to speak, so it was pointless to talk about these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u176	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. At the same time, I would like to inform you that Senator Robert Mamytkow made his speech in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister. We proceed with the examination of the sixth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Protection of the Environment. The text of the law is contained in print 1013, and the report of the committee In print No 1013 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on the Environment, Senator Piotr Flork, to submit a report to the committee. Please, Mr. Senator, I'd like to invite you to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u177	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Report from the Environment Commission and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration of 22 February 2019 of the Act amending the Environmental Law. The Senate Marshal sent the bill to the committee on 22 February. After considering the bill at its meeting on 25 February, the committees shall request the High Senate to adopt the attached draft resolution. Ladies and gentlemen, we are well aware of this Senate Act because the initiative of this Act has come out of the Senate, from the Environment Committee, as I recall. This was the answer to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. The Ombudsman asked the Constitutional Tribunal to state whether the two-year period for possible claims, which is in the law, is sufficient. In the Ombudsman's view, this should be at least a 5-year period, a longer period. As a result, the Senate initiative first... As I recall, during the discussion at the committee meeting... The Commission has proposed such an intermediate solution, i.e. I want this period not to be two years, but to be longer, three years old. Ladies and gentlemen, in the law on environmental protection, in Article. 129 states that if, in connection with the limitation of the use of the property or part thereof, it has become impossible or substantially limited in accordance with its intended purpose to date, the owner of the property may require the purchase of the property or parts thereof. In the mouth. 2 It is written that, in view of the limitation of the use of the property, its owner may claim compensation for the damage suffered, this also includes a reduction in the value of the property. In the mouth. 3 it is written that the claim referred to in paragraph 1 is made. 1 and 2 shall also be entitled to the perpetual property user and the claim referred to in paragraph 2. 2, also to the person who has the right to property in kind. And now we have lips. 4, which is changing. This is a fundamental change, and it refers to these other 3 paragraphs. The claim referred to in paragraph 1. It is possible to perform within 2 years, so it was written in the Act, and our change is this, we wrote it down and the Sejm accepted that in 3 years. It is further the same: from the date of entry into force of the regulation or local law which restricts the use of immovable property. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a question of whether two years, three years, four or five years. Here, depending on whether we have any limitations, and different restrictions may be defined in the zone, e.g. in the treatment plant zone, the national park, but there may also be, as was mentioned at the committee meeting, related to noise around airports, this is a restricted zone of use... It's different here with access to information. When it comes to, for example, the restricted use zone, that is, what is related to even noise at the airport, it is loud, we all talk about it, we all know about it and the 2-year period may have been enough to make such claims at that time. But there are situations, for example. some protection zone around a small treatment plant, when not always the owner will realize that he has such a claim. And now it's a question of balancing what this period should be like. When it comes to, for example, about the restricted use zone, it is such a situation that it can change. If this is an airport, it can increase the number of aircraft, new planes appear and then a new zone of use is created, it becomes bigger. If it increases, this is a new regulation, when there is a new regulation, it is a new zone and the 2-year period so far will now be 3 years, according to the law. Only that this is a different situation, a situation in which there is actually a change. And if we don't, we have now in the bill not 2 years, but 3 years. There's still a matter of transitional provisions, because if it's not over... If she was at the moment, for example. the established restricted use zone and it has not been two years, it will be three years after the entry into force of this provision, i.e. this period will be extended. But our proposal, the proposal that came out of the Senate, was accepted by the Sejm... As I recall, indeed, an amendment was tabled in the Sejm to extend this period so that instead of two years it would be five years, as the Ombudsman proposed, but this amendment did not obtain a majority, the bill returned to us as it came from the Senate. The committee therefore welcomed this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u178	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Do any of you have that question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. The bill was introduced by the Senate. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Minister Sławomir Mazurek is with us. Minister? No. Thank you very much. Then I'll ask the senators a question. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of you like to address such a question to the Minister? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. And I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. But Senator Maciej Łuczak made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. And I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the refund of excise duty contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production. The text of the Act is contained in print 1112, and the report of the Commission In print No 1112 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Zdzisław Pupa, to present a report to the committee. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u179	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 9 November 2018, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland adopted a law amending certain laws in order to introduce simplifications for entrepreneurs in tax and economic law, which amended the wording of the article. 1 of the Act of 10 March 2006 on the refund of excise duty included in the price of diesel used for agricultural production. According to that law, this amendment was dictated by an amendment to the excise duty Act in respect of the replacement of the combined nomenclature codes used in accordance with the applicable customs legislation in this respect. The refund of part of the tax will be granted to agricultural producers for the purchase of diesel falling within CN code 27101943 to 27101948 and CN code 382600, instead of CN code 27101941 to 27101949 and CN 382490 91. A new catalogue has also been introduced which omits diesel qualified for CN 27102011 of the new nomenclature, i.e. B7 diesel fuel widely used and marketed. The exclusion of oil classified under CN code 27020 11 prevents the refund of excise duty from 1 January 2019 on the purchase of that oil for agricultural production. In order to maintain the existing catalogue of diesel fuels for which agricultural producers may apply for excise duty drawback, the wording of the abovementioned Article should be amended. 1 Act of 10 March 2006 on the refund of excise duty included in the price of diesel used for agricultural production. Hence the examination of Law No 1112. This amendment should enter into force on the day following the publication of the Act in the Official Journal with effect from 1 January 2019, which does not conflict with the principles of a democratic rule of law and the important interest of the State is in favour of the entry into force of the proposed amendment within that period. It should also be noted that the envisaged solution is beneficial for agricultural producers, mainly because of the possibility of obtaining reimbursement of part of the excise duty in the case of the purchase and use for agricultural production of all types of gas oil offered on the market, falling within the codes set out in the current Act. The draft law does not entail a burden on the budget of the state or the budgetary units of the local government. The project will have a positive social, financial and legal impact. It should also be noted that the subject matter of the law, regulation, is not covered by European Union law. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that in 2019 an amount of PLN 1 billion 180 million was planned for the payment of agricultural fuel. This amount includes an increase, as can be said, in the limit of aid from 86 litres to 100 litres per hectare and 30 litres per large unit per large unit. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, last year, around 1 million farmers benefited from subsidies for agricultural fuel, with an area of more than 10 million hectares of agricultural land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u180	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a question to the Senator rapporteur from a place lasting no more than a minute. Do any of you have that question? No. Thank you very much. The bill was introduced by Members. Minister Tadeusz Romanczuk, our senator, Deputy Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, should be with us, but I do not see the Minister. Will there be any questions for the Minister? No. Good. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I state that none of your senators have signed up for the discussion. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the Promotion of Rural Development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 to 2020 and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print no.1011, and the committee's report In print No 1011 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u181	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development a report on yesterday's meeting of the committee in which we have examined the law amending the law on support for rural development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme 2014 Yesterday at the meeting we had a fairly long explanation of the Minister, who pointed out what this law was supposed to be about. She generally gives us the opportunity to get some of the funds from the so-called. The Rural Development Programme, from this perspective, will be transferred to the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, which will be able to provide guarantees and guarantees. This is, you can say, the experiment that the European Union is giving us so that we can give more funding through loans, through guaranteeing that these funds that will be transferred will be non-extinguishable, so that they will then function in the next period. Which, of course, will result in about EUR 50 million, if I remember correctly, the Minister showed it. It is a small amount, but it will just multiply the possibility of granting guarantees, guarantees and earlier the possibility of lending. This will give you maybe even a few million zlotys, so much more will be traded. And that's the solution... At the moment, it is envisaged that EU rural development funds will be mobilised in the new perspective in the form of loans, guarantees and guarantees. So more money will be mobilised by the banks. Some farmers have already benefited greatly from these funds, loans. And it is also pointed out that we should now introduce such an instrument through the creation and transfer also later to the National Guarantee Fund. This is where the restructuring agency and the minister of agriculture will operate at that time. The Commission adopted a position yesterday, after hearing, to adopt a law without amendments. I therefore ask that you support the adoption of the law without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u182	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Senator Sheriff. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u183	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Senator, well, the idea of introducing a new instrument Although it is already in the course of the implementation of the Rural Development Programme, I think it is right. However, the question arises as to whether this amount is indeed EUR 50 million Of course, it is not a significant one. It will not limit other support under the Rural Development Programme and will not reduce resources for other programmes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u184	Thank you. It's always at the expense of something. It is known that the proposed action had not been taken into account. As the government intends to make some changes to the RDP programme at the moment, it has made such proposals to the European Commission. I know that many changes are being made, and we are just waiting for the decision of the European Commission. E.g. such activities are not carried out in the case of which all projects are not carried out. So... I know history and, many times in the previous perspective, funds have been transferred to other purposes, so that these funds can be used to avoid returning money to Brussels. I think the government after this analysis and after this preliminary piloting... 'Cause let's just say it's gonna be a pilot thing. It's worth it. It's worth it. I hope that sometimes we will move and change the financial resources of the RDPs. And as far as I know, several actions have been notified by the government to the European Union in order to obtain consent, even if the increase in the financial resources of a young farmer. That must have all those permissions, too. But there's only consensus here once a year, so there's a chance that this year we're going to take this kind of action.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u185	Thank you. Are there any more questions for the senator? There isn't. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister, I address Minister Tadeusz Romanczuk. Would you like to speak? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Tadeusz Romanczuk: No, thank you very much.]] Good. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Are there any such questions? There isn't. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Act amending the IWT Act, the Law on the Organisation of the Fish Market and the Law on Maritime Fisheries. The text of the Act is contained in print no. 1091 and the report of the committee In print No 1091 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Wiesław Dobkowski, to submit a report to the committee. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please, ladies and gentlemen. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u186	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! On behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, I have the honour to present a government draft law amending the IWT Act, the Fish Market Organisation Act and the Maritime Fisheries Act. At the meeting of the Ministry's committee, he presented this bill to the Undersecretary of State Grzegorz Witkowski with his colleagues. There was also a representative of the Polish Sailing Union, Vice President Jarosław Bazilko. The Act adapts Polish provisions to European Directive 2016/1629 laying down the technical requirements necessary to ensure the safety of vessels sailing on inland waterways in Poland and in European countries and the classification of inland waterways. The aim of this law is to increase the level of Polish safety standards in inland waterway transport, to harmonise the system of technical requirements for inland waterway vessels and to clarify the administrative procedure in this respect. I will present the solutions that this law provides for. It introduces the possibility of issuing a Union inland navigation certificate. This document replaces the existing ship safety document and allows ships to operate on waterways in Poland and in European countries. It also introduces a new document supplementing the EU inland navigation certificate. This document is intended to allow shipowners to operate on waterways where additional technical requirements for ships have been introduced. To date, Polish shipowners have only been able to obtain such documents in other European countries which introduced additional requirements for these ships. This document can now be obtained in Poland. The Act introduces the possibility of renewing security documents, i.e. the rigour of a document which has already expired. To date, in the event of the expiry of the document, the ship owner had to apply for a new document. It prolonged the process of obtaining it. After the amendment of the law, this new document will no longer be needed, but simply there will be rigorisation or renewal. The Act also provides State supervision over the activities of classification institutions, i.e. entities which perform inter alia. technical inspections of vessels. The Minister responsible for inland waterway transport will monitor compliance with the rules by these institutions and will be able to act with the European Commission in the event of infringements. The Act ensures the transparency of security documents. Interested parties will be able to view or obtain copies of such documents. Such a solution will enable persons using ships to check that ships comply with safety requirements. The Act introduces a new document of navigation equipment certificate. This is a document confirming the installation and operation of navigational equipment. In addition, specific entrepreneurs were given the opportunity to issue such a document. The Act also ensures greater independence of technical experts of inspection committees They were obliged to make declarations on the performance of their duties impartially. It also introduces information obligations in case of scrapping of the ship. Such a solution will have a positive impact on the up-to-date of ship registers. In accordance with the requirements of the EU Directive, certain categories of maritime vessels and vessels intended solely for sport and recreation have been included in the scope of the Act. This solution concerns a very small number of ships, but nevertheless ensures compliance of Polish regulations with EU regulations. In addition, the Act clarifies certain solutions and simplifies administrative procedures. Such solutions will help to clarify the interpretation doubts that arise in practice and to simplify the conduct carried out. In this respect, among others, the modalities for obtaining derogations from the technical requirements for local shipping vessels are specified. The proposals for the solutions contained in this Act are set out in the best possible way for shipowners, i.e. they are granted the greatest possible powers and facilities while maintaining an adequate level of safety for inland waterway transport. Mrs Marshal, High Izbo, at the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, 5 amendments were tabled, these were amendments proposed by the Legislative Bureau. These include e.g. To correct some kind of interpretation error... The case also concerns the fact that personal data are included in the information provided by the directors. The amendment means that these personal data will not be disclosed. There's also this cleaning here, i.e. that if the obligation arises directly from the bill... e.g. the word "binding' is changed to the word "binding', etc. These are such detailed amendments. The Committee on Infrastructure unanimously accepted these amendments and asks the High House to adopt this law together with these 5 amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u187	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Are there any such questions? Senator Rybicki, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u188	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, you mentioned that the bill would apply to a small number of ships. Were these figures discussed during the committee's work? What number is this specifically referring to? We know that this applies to vessels, ships, tugs, etc. more than 20 m long. Can we estimate the number of these units?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u189	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u190	Well, it seems to me that I'm redirecting this question to the Minister because it wasn't discussed at the committee meeting. I just think that... [[I'll ask the minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u191	Good. Are there any more questions for the senator? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have Anna Moscow, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping. Minister, you're welcome. The Minister wishes to speak. There you go. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping Anna Moscow: Only in case of questions.]] If you have any questions, I understand. You're redirecting your question, aren't you? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u192	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I'm redirecting and extending the question. Namely, perhaps the Minister would like to answer how many ship owners operate in inland waterway transport? I understand that some operate in sea and inland waters, but what number of shipowners are they? In what part are Polish companies, and in which part are foreign companies? And what number of ships does this law apply to? How many units and how many shipowners will have to be subject to changes, repairs, repairs in connection with this certification? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u193	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u194	Thank you so much for that question. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This regulation will in the first place apply to those units whose privileges will run out. It won't be more than 50 units. As far as the entities in Poland are concerned, there are more than 600 of them, probably 626 or 621. The data for today I'm certainly not able to provide, but it's about 600 units. Those entities to whom these powers will expire would still have to apply for new powers, so this in no way hinders administrative functioning. The only thing that changes is that this right will automatically be an international right. This regulation will not apply to foreign entities as they will be able to obtain these EU certificates at their offices. And our entities, especially in German waters, will be able to function also in Polish and German waters, after obtaining consent from the Polish inland waterway office.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u195	Thank you very much. [[I'm gonna ask 'cause...]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u196	I mean the number of ship owners who operate are registered within the broad sense of shipping, in particular inland navigation. What is a row of greatness? Whether these are individuals or these companies are e.g. A few hundred? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping Anna Moscow: It is over 600...]] Because there are also 1 persons with 1 unit.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u197	As far as those directly concerned are concerned, this is over 600 units.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u198	Thank you. Senator Tight. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u199	Excuse me, Minister, you were talking about 626 units. Does this bill include shoulders? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping Anna Moscow: Yes.]] As I heard during the discussion on programs for the regeneration of our waterways, in Poland there are registered about 1,000 barges with capacity up to 700 tons. Most of these barges swim not in Poland but in the waters of Western Europe. Are they registered in Poland and will they have to seek certificates of navigability in Poland? Please also tell us what will be the global size of the government in the case of the fees that will be charged for this. Will they be relevant to the budget of these entities? And one more question. There are quite high penalties for certification bodies. Are these penalties, and such high penalties, dictated by such experience from the past, that there are imperfections, or are these rights being avoided on a large scale? Is it gross to exceed these rights, and will these penalties really be relevant for practical enforcement?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u200	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u201	Thank you very much. I actually answered my previous questions by nodding my head, stating that it was. As far as the penalty is concerned, it has been demonstrated in the consultation phase with entrepreneurs that this is not a severe penalty. Absolutely not due to any pathology or negative situation. This is more a standard of height for such situations, for other administrative decisions. We have not shown any nuisance here, nor is it a sign of pathology.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u202	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? Senator Jerzy Czerwinski? Yes. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u203	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Does the law in any way change the situation of natural persons, those who use water on yachts, on sailboats? Would you like to comment on this?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u204	Thank you very much. No, their situation doesn't change. First of all, it is about international transport and sailing not only in its own territorial waters.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u205	Thank you. Mr. Senator Tight. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u206	Minister, I'd like to ask you a question because there's a discrepancy between the two information that's gone down here. You say that there are 626, and the information I provided is that there are about 1,000 bars in Poland. That information is arguing. According to my information, the bar itself is about $1,000, and you say the units that require such permits are 626. What's the difference?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u207	The data I am talking about is information from foreign entities that informed us that Polish entities have requested such permission recently. Perhaps it is a matter of smaller units, a bar, which, as if does not exceed the regulated parameters and load elements. I'm talking about the larger units that are covered by this regulation. That's over 600.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u208	Thank you. [[I have one more question.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u209	Minister, I wasn't at the committee's work. I would like to fully understand this law and the position of the classification institution in the hierarchy of institutions. How is it located within the public administration? Does it have, so to speak, an analogy in maritime classification institutions? Would you care to explain that to us? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u210	Yes. I'll give you a simple example. The Inland Navigation Authority is equivalent to the Maritime Authority. This is the closest analogy. Both these institutions in the administration structure are directly subordinate to the minister, in the first case IWT, in the second case The maritime economy. This is one and the same minister. Institutions shall have the same powers both with regard to controls and reviews and to the issue of permits. This document specifically concerns inland waterway transport. It does not concern maritime transport in any way, as this is what the Maritime Labour Act and the IMO regulations on safety and sailing in international waters say. It's all about inland waterway vessels.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u211	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Minister, thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping Anna Moscow: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of you have signed up for this discussion. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of Denmark on the separation of maritime areas in the Baltic Sea, signed in Brussels on 19 November 2018. The text of the Act is contained in print 1103, and the Commission's reports In the forms Nos 1103 A and 1103 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Robert Gawl, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u212	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will present a report on the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee on printing 1103, the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of Denmark on the allocation of maritime areas in the Baltic Sea, signed in Brussels on 19 November 2018. As for the proceedings of the committee, the purpose of the bill was presented and then answered questions, Mr Piotr Wawrzyk of the Ministry... [[Voice from the hall: from the Ministry of Foreign ……]] Yes. The purpose of the Act is to give its consent to the ratification by the President of the Republic of Poland of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of Denmark on the separation of maritime areas in the Baltic Sea, signed in Brussels on 19 November 2018. The subject of the agreement is so-called. The grey zone of the sea area south of Bornholm, against which both Poland and Denmark claim. Both countries consider this area to be their exclusive economic zone. Consultations on the grey zone have been held with different frequencies since the 1970s. In December 2017, both countries decided to resume discussions on this subject. They ended with the signing of this agreement. Both parties agreed to divide the so-called. the gray zone of 20% of the area fell to Poland. This agreement will change the course of the external border of the Polish exclusive economic zone. Moreover, thanks to this agreement, Poland in this area can finally exercise sovereign rights for field research, for the exploitation of the economic area, jurisdiction regarding the construction of e.g. artificial islands, environmental protection, scientific research, etc. As far as the committee itself is concerned, the discussion was not very turbulent. Three senators asked questions that Minister Wawrzyk was trying to answer. Senator Pekkis asked if it was related to the future construction of wind farms in the Baltic Sea. The planned route of the Baltic Pipe pipeline does not interfere with this zone. The Minister said it doesn't matter whether he interferes or not. Then there was a question on my side. My interest raised this parameter, that only 20% will fall to Poland. Besides, such a discussion also took place in the Sejm on the occasion of this law. The Minister replied that this was a legal matter, not a question of the percentages of the granting of an area here... We must realise that the problem has not been solved for more than 40 years. Finally, a parameter was adopted, which is called a median, and it's about the distance between Bornholm and our shore of the Baltic Sea. This gray area is... Polish claims relate to the north of the median and Danish of the south. Senator Dobkowski asked if other countries were negotiating with Denmark in a similar way. It turned out that Germany and Sweden were negotiating, but these countries only received ca. 4% that is five times less than Poland managed to negotiate. So that from what the Minister has presented, it appears that this agreement has been negotiated correctly and has finally closed the issue of sovereign access to part of the area by the Republic of Poland. The Commission, of course, suggests adopting this law without amendment. Thank you. Questions, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u213	Thank you very much. Please, Senator Rafał the locksmith, rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union. Are you the senator? There you go. Report, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u214	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Senate! The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union today took note of the Act on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of Denmark on the allocation of maritime areas in the Baltic Sea, signed in Brussels on 19 November 2018. The Commission listened to the Minister's report, the Minister's explanations on this bill. In the course of the committee's work, there was only one question about whether this disputed area caused any disputes between our countries. The answer was that there was no particular conflict. And after this question, the committee voted unanimously to recommend to the High Senate that the High Senate adopt the bill. As far as substantive matters are concerned, my predecessor presented the scope of the bill, and I could only repeat what I am giving up. Unless there are questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u215	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Do any of you wish to ask such a question? Senator Rybicki. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u216	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I have a question for the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Robert Gawl, regarding... Because the report does not indicate that there are questions about consequences for Polish fishing, which, as we know, have been operating, fishing and earning in this grey zone for years. Has this issue been discussed during the committee's work and the consequences for the industry as well, very important especially for northern Poland, i.e. for sea fishing?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u217	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u218	Such a question was not raised, these issues were not raised during the meeting. I'd like you to direct this to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u219	Thank you. Are there any more questions for the Senators of the rapporteurs? I don't see any calls. Thank you. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration and the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Shipping were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have Minister Anna Moscow and Minister Piotr Wawrzyk with us today. The Minister is from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Minister is from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. From the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping. Do any of you have a question for... [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Yes. There you go. Which one of your ministers?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u220	To the minister responsible for answering the question that I had asked Senator Gawl earlier, questions about the consequences for the Polish fisheries which had so far operated, operated, fished in the area of the grey zone and now the economic zone of the Danish state.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u221	Good. Thank you. I see the Minister is on her way to the speaker. There you go. Did the Minister hear the question? Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u222	Thank you for that question. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This does not change anything because we are still in the quota zone and this is still part of EU policy, so the change in belonging does not change in any way the fishing quotas that we will be able to receive there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u223	Thank you. But stay still, because Senator Czerwinski... [[I'm here to see the Minister...]] Good. Is Senator Piotr Florek holding up... [[Me too.]] Yeah. Good. Here you go, Minister Piotr Wawrzyk. Minister, there will be questions for you. Senator Piotr Florek and then Senator Czerwinski. Okay? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u224	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, the entry into force of the law will reduce the area of the Polish exclusive economic zone for the Baltic, and it will significantly, because in the participation of 20 to 80. There was talk of a media that was admitted. I understand that median is always something in the middle. And if we were to talk here about a 50-50 split, it would be, let's say, a normal thing, and it wouldn't even be a negotiation success. But right now we have a ratio of 20 to 80, which is 1:4, which is... Well, it's probably a success because it was recently 27:1, and now we have 4:1, and in this way we can actually interpret it so that it is the success of Polish diplomacy that we managed to change it so. I'd like to know, because for so many years, I guess for 40 years, it hasn't been possible to change the state so far, this condition was what it was... what happened suddenly, what was the reason that we really had to come to an agreement right now. We think it's so unfavorable. When it comes to the division area? If we take into account the island of Bornholm, what a great island it is, and its southern part of the coast, and we take into account the coast of Poland, which is 440 km, if I remember correctly, we will see that these proportions are quite different. This is the island that is the farthest east of the Kingdom of Denmark. Well, it turns out. That is the result of this division. That we can only get 20% of this zone. What caused these negotiations to end so badly, and why did this decision have to be taken so suddenly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u225	Thank you very much. Senator Czerwinski will ask you a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u226	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I understand that this is a success, because this is about 20%. The grey zone, measured from the median towards Bornholm. What we could bargain in any court, we still had... [[Voice from the room: How?]] And that's 20%. is measured from the median up to the north. But the question is different. Next to that border. And that's what I'm seeing here on the map. The Nord Stream pipeline runs. Tell me if we couldn't negotiate with the Danes to get this extra 20% area mostly in the west, i.e. Move our zone to a maximum north in the western area. Then we would certainly partially cover Nord Stream II and we could, in a sense, influence what is happening in the construction of this pipeline.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u227	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u228	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! To answer the first question, I will appeal to the rapporteur, who said that this is a legal problem. Therefore, I suggest you look a little differently at the problem of these percentages. In this case, the ratio of 50:50 is different than in the case of economic negotiations where one party gives in half. Today, i.e. before the entry into force of this agreement, the legal status is that Poland does not have any part of the grey zone, and this is because the median line is a line equal to the distance between the coast of Bornholm and the coast of Poland. As it happens, in this case the median line coincides with the southern part of the grey zone as shown on the map. As the senator mentioned, in international law and in the case law of international courts, but also in similar matters of international agreements, the starting point for negotiations is always the median line. In our case, as I said, it coincides with the southern boundary of the grey zone. As a result, the deviation from the median line... Well, it's always very difficult to negotiate, because the party behind the legal arguments and the potential ruling of the international court in this case This is the Danish side She is not willing to give up in this regard. Therefore, Sweden and Germany, which had a similar dispute with Denmark, negotiated a few percent derogation from the grey zone, as mentioned. The standard, especially in the Baltic Sea area, is that these deviations from the median line do not exist. And this is what happened in the case of Norway, which achieved nothing more than the median line. Compared to the three countries I mentioned, we have gained much more. Compared to these two first countries, we have negotiated four times more than each of them. If this is to be a measure of the effectiveness of negotiations, and in this case there was no other possibility, because we were simply not in the law, unlike the Danes, it can be said, Senator, that it is 27:1, but for us, for Poland. This is an undoubted success, unheard of in this kind of international negotiations. So, yes, 27:1, but for Poland. To answer the question about the Nord Stream pipeline, I would point out that there is no decision on the operation of this pipeline yet. As far as we know, Denmark and the consortium building this pipeline are not willing to implement this investment in such a way that it runs through the grey zone. It will be built rather north of Bornholm, a place not covered by the grey zone. That's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u229	Thank you very much, Minister. I now declare a recess until 3:00 p.m. Thank you very much. Will there be any more questions for the Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u230	If you don't mind, I'm gonna ask you one quick question. Why did I ask that, Minister? Because we're driving the Baltic Pipe. It's supposed to be going through the German zone. Could you possibly explain that? Then we'd have the same position with the Germans as they have with the Baltic Pipe. Well, unless it goes through the Swedish zone.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u231	We wanted to put an end to the dispute with Denmark. We weren't suggesting Baltic Pipe or Nord Stream. We wanted to solve this basically the last border problem that the Republic had. Some of us didn't make it in eight years, we did it in eight months.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u232	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby announce a recess until 3 p.m. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 41 to 15 minutes 00]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the session. We return to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of Denmark on the separation of maritime areas in the Baltic Sea, signed in Brussels on 19 November 2018. Before the break, the senators asked questions to the representatives of the government present at the meeting. Do any of you senators want to ask the Minister another question? [[Voice from the room: No.]] Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm opening the discussion. I would like to inform you that none of you have signed up... [[Senator Klich.]] Mr. Senator Klich. Of course you're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u233	We're facing a difficult decision. On the one hand, because we have a Polish energy interest, more than just the supply through Baltic Pipe of energy raw materials, as well as diversification of roads which flow to Poland fuel. It is very reasonable for this diversification to take place. It is extremely important that Poland has different sources of energy raw materials and that they are passed on by different means. This independence of Poland from one supplier, which dominates the market, at least gas, and the differentiation not only of the energy package, but also of various transport routes, is in the interest of Poland. And that's the right thing to support this bill for. On the other hand, we are aware that the separation of waters between Denmark and Poland which have not yet been established can lead to a reduction in the fishing opportunities of our fishermen. If so, it will be a problem for our fishing. This is not an easy dilemma, a dilemma between energy security and the interests of our fisheries. I think each of us will settle this in our own conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u234	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Act on ratification of Council Decision (EU, Euratom) 2018/994 of 13 July 2018 amending the Act concerning the election of members of the European Parliament in direct universal elections. The text of the Act in print No 1104, and the Commission's reports In the letters Nos 1104 A and 1104 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Wiesław Dobkowski, to submit a report to the committee. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u235	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Yesterday, a meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure took place, at which the committee examined the ratification law of Council Decision 2018/994 of 13 July 2018, amending the Act concerning the election of members of the European Parliament in direct universal elections. This Act ratifys the Decision of the Council of the European Union of 13 July 2018 amending the electoral procedure to the European Parliament. It includes several changes. Firstly, it adds that the members of the European Parliament are elected as representatives of Union citizens. Secondly, in place of the statement of the [election] threshold (...) at national level, it shall not exceed 5 per cent of the votes cast, but shall introduce a statement of [election] (...) shall not exceed 5 per cent of the valid votes cast at national level. So if there's a record in some country that it's 5% The votes cast, here is a slight reduction in this threshold. As far as I know, in Poland it is accepted that this threshold is 5% The cast votes that are important, which means nothing will change for us. In addition, the amendment introduces an obligation to set an electoral threshold for districts with more than 35 mandates. Such a threshold should be 2 and is to apply after the first elections following the entry into force of the Council Decision, i.e. probably since the elections in 2024. Until now, this threshold has not been required, but in Poland this threshold is, as I said. Polish legislator determined that this is 5% The votes cast shall be valid. But after the entry into force of this law or after ratification, all Member States will have to introduce this threshold of 2%.5% if there are districts above 35 seats. The Act then introduces a deadline for the submission of a list of candidates. That's three weeks before the election date. The Act also provides for the possibility to place the name or graphic symbol of the European political party to which the national political party is linked or to which the candidate is linked on the ballots. It also introduces the possibility for countries to establish voting in advance, correspondence voting, electronic voting and online voting. It also introduces a ban on voting more than once. It also provides that countries can allow their citizens in third countries to vote in elections to the European Parliament and that they appoint a contact authority responsible for exchanging data on voters and candidates with their counterparts in the other Member States. It should be noted that some of these regulations have already functioned in the European Parliament elections at the level of national laws As I said, some things have already been introduced in Poland. Because they were not prohibited by European law. Furthermore, some of these regulations do not force states to amend their national laws, but merely indicate the possibility. So it's not mandatory for all countries. Ms Marshal, High Senate, the Senate's Legislative Office did not make any legislative comments, nor did the senators raise any objections to this law. The Chairman of the Infrastructure Committee, Senator Andrzej Biesiołek, has submitted a proposal for adoption without amendments, and this proposal has been adopted unanimously. On behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, I present to the High Senate a proposal to adopt this law without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u236	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Mark Pęk, to present a report to the committee. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u237	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! As my fellow senator presented the substantive content of this law very precisely, I will confine myself to the report that the committee today recommended the adoption of this law without amendment. I would just like to add that, in view of the fact that this decision concerns matters relating to the election of members of the European Parliament, which are matter regulated in Poland by law, and because this concerns civil rights, i.e.. electoral rights, ratification should take place under Article. Article 89 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland, i.e. with the prior consent expressed in the Act, and that is why we make this decision, because in normal cases it does not require the decision of the Sejm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u238	Thank you very much. The bill was filed... I'm sorry. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would anyone like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Digitisation were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Piotr Wawrzyk from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Minister Wanda Buk from the Ministry of Digitalization are with us today. Do you wish to speak on this law? No. Thank you. Do you senators wish to ask any questions to the ministers? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up for this discussion. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We're still on the news. There's gonna be a break in a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u239	Messages. The meeting of the Health Committee on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate to the Act on the Agency for Medical Research will take place immediately after the announcement of a break in the session in room 217. The meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate to the Act amending the Law on the Principles for the Management of State Property and some other Acts will take place today at 15.45 in room 217. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u240	Thank you. Dismissed until 5:30 p.m. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 15 minutes 11 to 17 minutes 34]] High Izbo, resume. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. High Izbo, I propose supplementing the agenda with items: Act amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care and certain other laws and consider this item as item 12 of the agenda; the law on the preparation and implementation of strategic investments in the oil sector and the review of this item as item 13 of the agenda; the law on amending the Act on subscription fees and consider this item as item 14 of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u241	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. With regard to the Act on healthcare provision as a group of senators, we do not raise any objections because the first reading took place yesterday, while due to the mode of introduction to the agenda of ad hoc And recently, because two hours ago, first readings on the Act amending the Act on Subscription Fees and the Act on Strategic Investments in the Fuel Sector are asked not to include these 2 laws on the agenda of the current Senate meeting and to include them on the agenda of the next Senate meeting. The senators, in short, according to the accounts, did not have time to read the contents of these laws during committee meetings or before committee meetings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u242	Ladies and gentlemen, there is a request from Senator Klich not to introduce these two laws... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, as there are committee reports, we will put to the vote my motion to introduce these laws on the agenda of this sitting. First, the Law on the preparation and implementation of strategic investments in the oil sector and its consideration as item 13 of the agenda. Who among you is in favour of putting this law on the agenda? Please cast your votes. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 54 for, 22 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 3]] Therefore, my motion for this law to be put on the agenda has been put to the vote. And another request for a law to amend the Act on Subscription Fees and consider it as item 14 of the agenda. Who among you is in favour of putting this law on the agenda? Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Thank you very much. 76 senators voted, 54 for, 22 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 4]] I therefore conclude that the Act amending the Act on Subscription Fees was introduced on the agenda as point 14. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1106 and the report of the committee In print No 1106 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Konstanty Radziwiłł, to present a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u243	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present to you a law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care and certain other laws, which comprehensively regulates a number of different types of issues... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.]] ...but it can be said that a fundamental part of this quite large law is the comprehensive regulation of checks carried out by the National Health Fund, as well as by the Minister of Health and sometimes other ministers in relation to various types of health care providers. Among the numerous regulations that are intended to improve, more objective control, but also to improve the situation of controlled entities, we find in the Act regulations such as the transfer of responsibility for the entire control, in principle, with little exceptions, to the President of the National Health Fund, to which all controllers will be subject, regardless of where they are physically located. I will remind you that today this control is carried out by the directors of the voivodship branches. It seems that the separation of responsibility for control from different types of obligations, local knowledge, would be of great benefit to this control. As far as controllers are concerned at all, the bill creates a corps of controllers. The controllers who come today, you can say, from various kinds of hauls and calls, have different kinds of preparation for this check, will have to be educated, the law regulates requirements for them, will have to pass the exam. This is roughly similar to the audit corps of such institutions as the Supreme Audit Chamber or the KAS. Across the country, due to the current, unregulated or harmonised situation, there will be an unification of control rules, both as regards the rules of this control and as regards the different types of controlled entities. It can therefore be said that the Act introduces uniform rules of control for both healthcare providers, pharmacies and in the area of drug refunds. As I said, these new control rules will involve compliance with the control rules that were introduced some time ago in connection with the control of entrepreneurs. It is simply that control, on the one hand, safeguards the public interest and, on the other hand, paralyzes the functioning of the controlled entities. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Thus, the Act introduces a limitation of the duration of inspections within a year, the number of such checks, a limitation on the one-time control by different institutions, e.g. by the National Health Fund and the Minister of Health, possibly other ministers who oversee... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me, Minister, excuse me. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. These conversations interfere with the senator's reporting, and they don't allow us all to focus. Quiet, please.]] Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. So the point is that at one time, entities are not controlled by several control bodies, e.g. by the National Health Fund and the Minister for Health or other ministers who supervise the medical entities concerned. In principle, the obligation to give notice of inspection 7 days before the start of this inspection is introduced, except, of course, emergency situations, e.g. threatening health and life and some other extraordinary. One control document shall be entered. This is also a novel that will facilitate reference to the results of controls and the introduction of post-control proposals. As in other areas of health protection, different types of IT tools are introduced here as well. This digitization, which includes, you can say, significant areas of health care, over time should largely eliminate paper turnover, paper transmission, the need for photocopying, the production of huge amounts of paper documents that actually exist, only in electronic form, etc., etc. The law also introduces the possibility, you can say, of control without control, i.e. request by authorities empowered to control, e.g. The National Health Fund, with a request from representatives of operators to provide explanations outside of control, so that the entity does not have to be subject to the entire burdensome control procedure, only so that the entity can be requested certain information, explanations, can be said so preventively, but also so that the previously obtained information can be used during the inspection. In short, the aim is to reduce the burden of control for the controlled entity itself. As part of their ability to obtain information from inspection bodies, notably the National Health Fund, they are entitled to access various types of registers, in particular medical registers, which are increasing and which offer different types of information about the situation and better preparation of controls, so that it is carried out more efficiently. And finally, it's also a novum. It is, you can say, such a restriction from the bottom on the investigation of penalties which are of a negligible nature. Thus, the fund will in principle not be subject to penalties which are less than PLN 500 in terms of the rules, and the investigation of the penalty will only be initiated if, within one calendar year, these penalties amount to more than PLN 2 000. What's going to be below, it's just... The point is to avoid this whole mite, both sides of it. So much for checks. There are several other important regulations in this bill. There is, you can say, a certain innovation of a solution that has been operating for some time in Polish hospitalization, that is, a network of hospitals. There are a few things here, and basically two things that are important. One, relevant from the point of view of patients, but also reported by hospital directors to the so-called level. National hospitals, it is an opportunity for such a hospital to ask the director of the voivodship branch to launch night and Christmas health care at the national hospital. So far, these hospitals have been excluded and such demand has been reported. Very important from the point of view of hospitals This is the principle that is to be implemented almost immediately after the Act enters into force, and in this respect will enter into force on the day of the announcement, the calculation of the lump sum of the network hospitals for 2019 on the basis of no, as has so far been in the legislation, by the second half of 2018, but by both halfs of the year. This is due to the greater representativeness of the longer accounting period. First of all, you have to be aware that the second half of the year in hospital means including July, August and December, and these are months generally slightly worse from a financial point of view. Therefore, relying on data from the second part of the year is less favourable to hospitals. In this way, the calculation of the lump sum for 2019 will be more beneficial for those who are on the hospital network. Such a small, albeit important for a group of people working in the National Health Fund, namely pharmacists, is a change in the principle that work, mainly in control, in the National Health Fund does not mean a break in the pursuit of the profession of pharmacist. It was very cumbersome for people who wanted to come back, for example. To work at the pharmacy. Finally, the last issue, also very important from the point of view of patients, is the new legislation on the operation of hospital emergency services, specifically the introduction of uniform rules for the segregation of patients. In accordance with the urgency of their disease, and with the introduction of an obligation to comply with such rules. This will affect, on the one hand, the safety of those patients who are in the most urgent situation of need for assistance and, on the other hand, the comfort of those who have to wait longer, because one of the features of this segregation system will be the obligation to specify the deadline, actually the time of acceptance, it may be said too much, because it happens within hours, in any case the obligation to indicate the waiting time that is expected. In a sense, this also applies to hospital admission. The possibility for the voivods to decide on the division of hospital activity into so-called. acute and blunt on-calls, i.e. the indication of those hospitals which will be more mobilized by recipients for patients who are in emergency states, for patients imported by units of State Medical Rescue, and those that will be able to have a slightly reduced level of readiness, although it is stressed in the bill that also these hospitals It is known that patients sometimes don't know which hospital is on emergency duty, they will have to be ready to receive the patient in an emergency. This is also very important to ensure patient safety. Ladies and gentlemen, in short, this quite complex, large law is presented. With regard to the work of the Health Commission on this bill, it took place yesterday. In fact, one issue aroused the discussion, it is a matter of penalties imposed by the National Health Fund on persons entitled to issue prescriptions, especially doctors, but also nurses and felchers who issue prescriptions for medicines refunded without having a contract for benefits at the same time. There has been a discussion here about whether or not the legislation that has been adopted is appropriate. Finally, the request for an amendment has not been made, but after discussion, it can be said today, that it is no longer a secret, both the representative of the Ministry of Health, Mr Cieszyński and myself, that we will work on this provision in such a way that it does not cause any concern, especially from the medical community, which indicates that too strict application of the rules on penalties for incorrect prescription for a refund may be one of the reasons that doctors avoid issuing such prescriptions, of course to the detriment of patients. But the point is that those provisions that we are announcing here clearly indicate that those who commit irregularities on a larger scale, to the greater detriment of the public payer, or simply to the path of crime, may be punished in a way that will deter such a crime. And there seems to be a chance that such a recipe will soon be created. In this way, it can reduce the emotions around this case. Mrs Marshal, High Izbo, the committee has finally adopted the law without amendments and recommends that it be adopted in this form by the High House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u244	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. The question is asked by Senator Rafał Ambrozik. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u245	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister! Mr. Senator! I'd like to ask you a question about this control app. She's gonna be like NIK? You want this call to look just like the Supreme Board of Control? That's the first question. Second thing. Will the number of controllers be increased? And the third line. It raises my doubts about the information about inspections in medical facilities. These establishments can simply prepare for such a check. After all, there were cases of bringing equipment or refilling cupboards in hospital pharmacies, just before the announced checks. What are the arguments in favour, however, of maintaining these announced checks and not introducing such checks as would be surprising to these operators in some way?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u246	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u247	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Senator, when it comes to, as you call it, the control app, well, she, in principle, will be a little bit like the NIK, albeit adapted to work at the National Health Fund and not elsewhere. So that it will not be possible to gain here, I would say, a title or profession of universal controller, who can control everything and everywhere. They'll be the National Health Fund controllers. As far as their number is concerned, there's nothing from the bill. We haven't talked about it, although much can be said on the basis of a declaration from the Ministry of Health that goes in such a direction as to control what is big and not to deal with small things. So you can say that better qualified controllers will be able to carry out these heavy checks and detect, so to speak, big things. Perhaps there will be fewer such things. Well, I don't know if that's the answer to your question, but you can clearly see the direction. As far as information on controls is concerned, it is simply necessary to divide these checks into two types. As I mentioned, there is a provision here which says that under certain enumerative circumstances, including when there is an emergency situation that threatens life or health, and when there is a suspicion of serious misconduct, crime, control can be carried out unannounced. However, it must be borne in mind that control, especially such greater control, is a huge challenge for the subject, a huge burden. Well, it seems, however, that especially large health care units, such as. Hospitals, these aren't entities where, I say, they're quick enough to cover their tracks so that they don't show anything. Because you control maybe not as much as there are pills in the locker in the nurse's office as there are some adopted rules, procedures, qualifications of staff, etc., etc. And it doesn't seem possible that in such a short time it could change all of this. However, we must be aware that the control is carried out on a living body, which must at the same time safeguard the interests, especially the interests of the patients who are there. And it cannot be that the controllers will cause any perturbation in its operation. So it seems that here the interests of both parties, i.e. on the one hand, the interests of patients and, on the other hand, the interests of the public payer or the social interest are probably balanced.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u248	Thank you very much. Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u249	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I'd like to extend this question a little bit, which a colleague has just asked. During the report of the committee meeting, you used, perhaps twice, the wording of the audit corps or the audit services. And I'd just like to know... I'm not a member of the Health Committee. I'd like to know what it's gonna look like. Whether it's just gonna be the controllers... Will this apply only to the scope of health benefits, i.e. the NFZ, or will they also be controllers under the Pharmacy Chamber? How wide is this board gonna be? And under whom will she really be subject? Or under the NFZ or under the Minister of Health? That wasn't said. And I'd like to ask you what's going on with the current control bodies that work. They work all the time. Are they going to be eliminated in any way, or are they going to be, so to speak, 2 independently of each other's existing control bodies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u250	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u251	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. As regards the subsidiary of this National Health Fund audit body 'Cause that's what we're talking about, they're gonna be the National Health Fund controllers, they're gonna act on his behalf and on his behalf. This, as I said, will all be subject to headquarters, i.e. to the President of the National Health Fund, not to the voivodships. This is a significant change from the present state. It has nothing to do with the controls... I think you meant not so much the pharmacy but probably the pharmaceutical inspector, if you were talking about the drug control. Well, it's just a separate area. But among other things. that is also the subject of regulation. The point is, if there is an example. control of the National Health Fund, other bodies at the same time did not carry out controls that would simply ruin the functioning of the entity, in this case for example. Pharmacy. Yeah, well, it's a check on... You can say in short: control of the implementation of the contract with the National Health Fund, i.e. benefits, finances, etc. But please note that the agreement with the National Health Fund also includes e.g. to meet specific requirements that are described e.g. in the so-called. basket regulations. And if there was a competition and there were some, you can say, additional points that caused the entity to win, then also meeting these criteria, the realization of these points may also be the subject of control. But all of this is limited, you can say, to the extent that is of interest to the National Health Fund. Of course, regardless of this, I would like to remind you that all providers of benefits can also be controlled by the Minister of Health, as well as by persons to whom the Minister of Health will order them, e.g. Voivodeship. With regard to the situation of the current controllers and their future, the Act contains transitional provisions which state that all those who work in control in the voivodship offices today will move to this new corps. They have a certain amount of time to supplement their education, because you can say that, among others. Education... Well, there's a separate regulation for that. As a general rule, the controller must have a higher education, and today it is not always so. In addition, auditors who, as I say, deal directly with patients' cases, most importantly, in particular medical records, must have appropriate medical training. It is written that a person who is not bound by professional secrecy should not have access to such data. I guess that's all the answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u252	Thank you very much. Senator Rafał the locksmith.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u253	Mrs. Marshal! Mr Senator, rapporteur! This law contains a series of such point amendments, amendments. Some of them, unfortunately, are urgent and this is a task for us. However, it contains one unfortunate change; it is an article. 52a Refund Act. You mentioned in your report that this is a questionable issue for you as well. Did the Minister share your opinion and set a time limit for him to report a possible change? The continuation of this provision will be very detrimental to the medical environment, but this will also translate into our patients. Was there also a deadline for the debate at the committee meeting to amend this law, which we are currently discussing?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u254	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u255	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I would not like to be the Minister of Health's press secretary here, as well as your Deputy Minister, who was at the committee meeting and who is with us today. However, we have stressed that the vacathio legis of this particular provision, like many others, is 3 months, and we are aware that at this time we should deal with the new regulation. However, I would like to draw attention to this and very strongly stress this. In my opinion, the criticism that these provisions have been brought about by the medical community also requires some discussion. It is very important to stress that it is not the intention of this and this should be written down in this provision To chase anyone who's wrong and enter 50% instead of 30% when it comes to refund levels. However, there can be no consent, consent to the impunity of those who have simply made themselves of this kind of crime, sometimes simply engaging in unlawful or even criminal acts. And that must be fulfilled. On the job we announced that there'd probably be some kind of recipe here, which I've already reported in a slightly similar way, i.e. that you don't race it in an area where there are small penalties.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u256	Mr. Arkadiusz Grabowski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u257	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator! Minister! You provoked me a little bit with your answer to the next question, because the labour market, when it comes to medical services, is quite complicated, so let's put it that way. You pointed out here, with regard to the audit criteria, that they must be people with higher education, additionally medical education. Therefore, I would like to ask you how the Ministry will get these inspection specialists, as envisaged, and how the resources are going to follow. First of all, how many of these controllers are planning to hire at the NFZ headquarters, I understand? And what are the means behind this? Will it be enough to say that it is attractive on our currently complicated labour market, in the face of really labour market shortages? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u258	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u259	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I can try to answer one part of the question, but I think it would have to be left to the Minister. When it comes to people with medical education, it is important to be aware that all those who already function as controllers in the National Health Fund, with these qualifications, are people with higher education. So there's no way anyone who's educated today... Well, it's hard for me to give you that kind of education, but let's just say there's someone who is. Some tech guy, he's gonna make college and become a doctor. Well, I don't think anybody has a plan like that. From the point of view of the interest of patients, their privacy and the particular sensitivity of personal data that relate to human health and life, it is extremely important that persons who, under any circumstances, touch this data and may take information on this matter, be required to do more than just professional secrecy. And it seems to be extremely important. And this is written down, and in previous regulations this principle was also observed. And please note that the National Health Fund controls matters not only directly related to patients. Right? And they could be controllers who don't have qualifications in medical jobs. So that some controllers will be doctors, nurses, pharmacists, physiotherapists, probably rehabilitators, well, different people with higher education medical professions, but they will also be people who have other qualifications. And those who function there today will have some time to earn this education, and the newly acquired ones will be just like that. And I think it's going to be a good thing again, because this control is going to primarily contribute to not so much catching the guilty and making an example of punishing them as well as supporting the improvement of the quality of care and patient safety. Right? And at the same time secure public finances It's obvious. Well, the quality of this inspection corps is very important. Today There is no need to avoid such a conclusion or such an opinion. In fact, many representatives of controlled entities show that these checks do not actually lead to, and in any event, do not lead to, improvements in the quality of health care and patient safety. Controllers sometimes focus on things that are the easiest, i.e. various formal shortcomings, which do not have a significant impact on the quality of care and patient safety. And it seems like the right thing to do is to change.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u260	Are there any more questions for the Minister? There isn't. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Janusz Cieszyński from the Ministry of Health is with us today. Minister, do you wish to speak on this bill? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Janusz Cieszyński: No.]] So I'm gonna ask the senators a question. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would anyone like to ask such a question? Senator Grabowski. So, Minister, please come to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u261	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I'll try very briefly... Just what the Senator rapporteur might not have known, he didn't know. I mean, this body of controllers, what it's gonna look like. Because here Minister Radziwiłł pointed out that they would be doctors, nurses, rehabilitators. Whether it's a form of additional work, or whether it's some kind of employment, which resources will follow, how many of these controlling people will be. What, so to speak, do you have calculations for this moment? Besides, we still have issues that have just been raised. I will go back to these issues of education plus competence and qualifications. So, higher education in medical direction, I understand from what Minister Radziwiłł pointed out. How are you able to secure this with such a labour market, as medically as it is? Well, there's a deficiency everywhere. There's a shortage of doctors, there's a shortage of nurses... [[Oh, come on. Nurses are enough...]] Oh, come on, nurses aren't enough... [[Gentlemen, please don't discuss this in the O.R.]] I'm asking for an explanation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u262	Good. Minister, you are hereby voted in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u263	Thank you so much for that question. It was also in the course of work in the Seym. Namely: do we not intend to increase the number of employees in the fund headquarters of persons who are involved in controls under this law? Well, this is particularly important in the context that all the administrative costs of the fund come from this pool, from the health contribution that all insurances pay. No, we intend to finance the functioning of this corps, within the framework of available posts, by moving employees who are currently working in the voivodship departments under the wing of the headquarters. It is worth noting that according to the regulations which the Sejm has already passed, the inspection corps is operated by the headquarters and by voivodship units. So the location will only apply to such a strictly formal subsidiary. Those people will stay where they worked. They know the local characteristics. There is also no question about what raised some doubts in the course of earlier works, i.e. the transfer of jobs from cities in which voivodships operate, to Warsaw, to headquarters. So this is where the expenses don't increase. It is very important to be able to appoint experts on specific matters. The fact is that we often have very specific cases, and it is difficult to imagine that the fund has a specialist in every small area, in every small case, because it simply does not pay off economically. This gives us the opportunity to use experts from abroad sometimes. This is particularly important in cases where we have very narrow controls. Well, let's imagine that there is one center in Poland that deals with something. It is difficult to carry out control objectively, based solely on the resources we have in the country. That is why we can also appoint experts from abroad. And what's important is this. And that brings with it this centralization. That we can... In a situation where we have a specialist in a given field in the 1st voivodship department today, it is very difficult to really cooperate between branches related to having some substantive knowledge. At a time when it will be centralised, the flow of information will, in our opinion, be much simpler. In the context of the medical qualifications that you asked the senator about, it is worth noting that we have two types of tasks. The first is the self-security of the collection of medical records to which each controller is permitted regardless of his/her education. The key here is to keep the secret of the controller. Its possible violation is subject to very strict sanctions. In case of analysis, issuing opinions on the basis of documentation... For this purpose, a person with a medical education related to a given type of documentation is required. This allows us to optimize the use of the resources we have, in such a way that we avoid the situation in which a doctor or a person with medical education must go to the place of inspection. The controller shall collect the documentation, secure it We hope that soon, to a large extent, it will be electronic documentation and will pass it on to headquarters or other voivodship departments where a controller specialising in a given subject may give a professional opinion on the subject. This should help us secure the experts. We also have the doubts about the labour market that the senator was talking about. We do not increase employment, we move within existing resources and, by optimizing processes, we simply want to achieve better results.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u264	Thank you very much. Senator Alicia the Hare. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u265	Minister! I listened to the statements of the Senator, the questions and your comments, and this was a question that I raised. Has an analysis of existing controls been carried out in individual branches? I know that in Poland there is a perfectly prepared group of auditors specialising in the control of health care units, so I will describe it. Will they be used as experts, or will they be able to participate... There's gonna be some competitions, I understand. Yes? I'm talking about the corps. What's the form of the application? What's it gonna look like?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u266	Let me explain. As far as the control corps is concerned, we have one. A two-year transition period during which each... We already have people who... [[Because the control itself is already there.]] But it is also important to remember that people who are currently working in fund control cells and voivodships will have to pass this audit exam within 2 years. It's gonna be a tough test. Of course, in order to be a controller, you need to have a higher education, you need to pass the vetting, because here we also eliminate from this corps people who cooperated with the secret services of the Polish People's Republic. Besides, you have to be an employee at headquarters. So the first step at all is to take a job in the fund, and the next step is the sentence of this exam. And quite important, which does not appear in all other laws that provide for what checks look like, is that in addition to formal preparation, in addition to the knowledge of regulations, procedures, here we also expect to meet psychophysical requirements, which means we need to undergo psychological tests to check whether there is resistance to stress. We want the best to actually get into this corps. And we give the employees of the fund two years to take this exam. This exam will take place once a quarter and can only be taken once a year. The point is that there is no such phenomenon that this exam is simply carried out, which is why only once a year can you take it. Four times a year this exam is organized, which means there is also a lot of availability. And we hope that this exam will be an effective form of selection of the best candidates who will do their best as controllers. In answer to the question of external experts, I can say that the President of the Fund will have the opportunity to involve experts, external experts in these audit procedures. The senator mentioned a group of external auditors. Of course, of all those who have such predispositions, who have such experience, the president of the fund will be able to benefit. But at this stage of work, when we are still here after the Sejm's adoption, during the work in the Senate, it is difficult to determine whether this particular group will be involved by the president of the fund. [[Yet an evaluation of the various branches.]] Yes. We analyzed the functioning of individual branches, and this also led us to undertake centralization. What did it turn out to be? It turned out that the same provisions of both the statutory rank, the provisions contained in the regulations, but also the orders of the president of the fund are interpreted differently in different branches. This is why centralization and focusing of these functions in one place, however, allows such disturbing and adverse phenomena to be avoided in the future. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u267	Thank you very much, Minister. Are there any questions for the Minister? There isn't. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm opening the discussion. Nobody signed up. Senator Bogdan Klich has submitted proposals of a legislative nature to the protocol. The discussion is closed. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Health Commission to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the law on the preparation and implementation of strategic investments in the oil sector. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1108, and the report of the Commission In print No 1108 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to submit a report to the committee. Mr. Senator, I invite you very cordially. You're welcome, sir. I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u268	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! The committee... [[Cell phone signal]] I'm so sorry. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen. Today, the Commission has relied on the bill... a specialist, that is what it is called, the most important solutions contained in the Act on the preparation and implementation of strategic investments in the oil sector. This applies to 4 investments: construction of the Gdansk oil pipeline; construction of the Boron oil pipeline; construction of oil pipelines and petroleum products in order to change the course of existing pipelines or to rebuild, expand, rebuild, repair, demolition or change their use. The amendments proposed in the Act are as follows. Firstly, the introduction into the legal system of the decision issued by the voivode to determine the location of strategic investment in the oil sector; secondly, the introduction of an obligation for an investor to obtain an opinion listed in the closed catalogue instead of decisions by the administrative authorities competent in the investment process; thirdly, the simplification of the procedure for issuing decisions on environmental conditions, water law permits, decisions on building permits, decisions on use; fourthly, the shortening of time limits for decisions and the introduction of mechanisms to limit the timely handling of cases by administrative authorities. The fifth group of amendments envisages simplifying the notification to the parties of the proceedings, the activities carried out in its course and the legal acts issued. In other words, this law aims at simplifying procedures for building important for Poland, strategically due to the country's energy security, investment. During the committee, the Minister, Mr Piotr Naimski, was present, who answered the questions. The questions addressed to the Minister concerned the procedure for introducing the bill to be dealt with by the committee. There were also questions to the current legislative committee on the form of implementation of this law. After the vote, the Commission proposes to the honourable House, recommends that the House adopt a law without amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u269	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. A government representative for strategic energy infrastructure has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Minister Piotr Naimski is with them today, Secretary of State of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, Representative of the Government for Strategic Energy Infrastructure. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Governor of the Government for Strategic Energy Infrastructure Piotr Naimski: Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u270	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm very short. This is a special law which, following the provisions already proven in practice in the functioning terminal law, will speed up, and will often allow, the construction of the necessary additional infrastructure for the country in the oil sector. This applies in particular to the second thread of the pipeline between Płock and Gdańsk. This one, which is currently functioning, is absolutely insufficient both from a security point of view In the event of an accident, it would be difficult to replace it. And for economic reasons. This second thread will be used to supply the Płock refinery with the various oil grades that are necessary to optimize the refinery processes. This combined with these 3 additional elements, which includes the Act, will allow PERN, which in this case is an investor It is a 100% state Treasury company to implement the resolution of the Government of the Republic of Poland adopted on 28 November 2017 on the policy of the government of the Republic of Poland for logistics infrastructure in the oil sector. I ask the High House to accept this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u271	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would anyone like to ask such a question? Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. Please, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u272	Minister, there are 4 points on the list of strategic investments in the oil sector, 3 about specific investments. The second point refers to the construction of oil pipelines and petroleum products in order to change the course of existing oil pipelines or petroleum products or to their reconstruction, expansion, reconstruction, repair, demolition or use. Tell me, what kind of investment would be involved here? 'Cause that's a blank point. And tell me if this bill has a temporal scope.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u273	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u274	Mr. Senator, the fact is that this punt in the bill is a point on the preparation of investments that are necessary for the maintenance of existing transmission infrastructure, both raw material and product infrastructure. We are dealing with the situation that these pipelines, whether fuel or raw materials, are often very old, age-old. We have to replace them, and sometimes we have to replace them in an emergency mode, actually due to failure. In such a situation, it is very risky to follow generally existing rules and deadlines, and sometimes it is simply necessary to carry out accelerated work. And that's why this law also covers these kinds of projects. It's either renovations or upgrades or reconstructions. These enumerative types of interference are not accidental here, they result from construction law. This is therefore limited by construction law. But at the same time, as the senator noted, this is an open collection, because there is an open matter of need in this infrastructure that we can meet. The act is not temporary, it is not closed temporarily.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u275	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Representative of the Government for Strategic Energy Infrastructure Piotr Naimski: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. I inform you that none of your senators... [[Voice from the room: There is one...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Uh-huh. Good. Well, there you go, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, and then Senator Piotr Florek is saved. You're welcome, sir. I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u276	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Shortly, but it is not possible that it does not sound like it in this House. I have the impression that this bill is a specialty involving the Senate, because what happened during the proceedings of this law was like an absolutely extraordinary mode. One may insist that the provision of materials is equivalent to posting them somewhere on the website, but that is not true. Delivery means delivery to the addressee, and we were not even informed when going to the committee meeting about the matter. We received the materials at the committee meeting. 52 paragraphs on 48 pages. Cases involving ownership rights, i.e. constitutionally guaranteed Therefore, they concern human rights, which should be considered with the utmost care, and were dealt with in a manner that insulted the House's dignity and the dignity of the senators, despite the seriousness of the Minister's behaviour. But that made us laugh. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 4 The Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator is said to have the conditions for the effective execution of the mandate. Such conditions were not created for us, and therefore I believe that this bill is being pushed by the Senate actually without consideration. Without proper consideration. I would even bet that there is not a single person in this House who has read this bill, except the Minister and his officials, but there is no such person among the senators. Therefore, it is not surprising that there was no opinion of the Legislative Bureau. Why would you do that? It is not surprising that there was, of course, another proposal for a law without amendments. To tell you the truth, why did we come here to the Senate when it seems we're going to vote all the laws without amendment? [[Voice from the room: It's good.]] Well, very good, they're getting better. Some of us are voting once again without any corrections following the revision of the mistakes that were previously made. I actually thought that maybe I, because I've been here all these years, I'm overreacting, but it fell into my hands. Well, that's what I call it. A tabloid who mocks the role of the Senate. Not even a tabloid. This isn't right. I appeal to your marshal, to the bureau, to guarantee us a normal job with the seriousness of these offices. I'm not referring to the bill, I can't vote for it, I don't know her. I think it's outrageous that I haven't been given a chance to get to know this vast material. Such things are not to be done by the Republic of Poland. Unless you have the right to disregard it. Minister, you were talking about the contracts being signed and the urgency. After all, it was known much earlier than it was negotiated, that such a solution would be needed. And in the end, I even understand that it's urgent. But it's not urgent about the date. Really. At least the Minister didn't let us know. Two weeks doesn't make that much difference here. That is why I do not consider this situation to be a forced circumstance. It's more of a signal that you can do whatever you want with this House, in a warehouse like this. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u277	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Flork.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u278	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! I'm more or less in the same spirit as my predecessor. I know a few specials, and I'm pretty good at it. Besides, I used to make decisions based on these laws. And I have to say, I'm shocked at the way this bill is being dealt with. Because even at the committee meeting, to my question, who called this committee meeting... Because the committee meeting is called by either the chairman or the committee itself or the marshal. In the first version, as I saw, the chairman said that they called, and then it turned out that it was the marshal who called. Besides, there are procedures so that even if we accept that the committee has been called... But the proper documents must be, as Senator Augustine said, delivered at the right time. And here's the little gate again. The record that in exceptional situations... Well, what does it turn out to be? That we've been working in a special situation for a long time. When I come here, I never know what's gonna happen, but I know there's gonna be a special situation. And, of course, we have such a special situation and we need to proceed quickly, quickly. The Spectaw has to do with it that it improves, especially in difficult times, when certain actions need to be accelerated, the issuing of relevant documents. That was the case, for example. in the case of Euro 2012. We had to meet certain conditions, build stadiums, roads, provide railway infrastructure and many other things and was needed special law. There were a few specialties like this, for example. The airport bill or, as Senator Augustine said at the committee meeting, a very important matter as regards the high-voltage lines... Well, there's a lot of conflict in that title. Yes, such specifications simplify certain procedures, including procedures. issuing environmental decisions, terms of various types, means of notification, etc. Importantly, administrative decisions are immediately enforceable, although appeal procedures may take place. Therefore, this type of legislation should be approached with special caution. On the other hand, we have the owner of the property we're entering. Sometimes we buy it, sometimes we pay compensation for it. And there's the procedure, too. Right? If there's compensation, then who's charging this compensation, if there's a real estate buyout... Then mostly an asset valuer, by law, must make a valuation of the real estate. There are also procedures related to negotiation, conversations, redemption. If it doesn't happen, of course there's another problem, which is forced redemption, such expropriation. These are difficult matters and the specialty should be applied in really exceptional situations. The question is, are we dealing with a unique situation again? The Minister was just here answering questions about this list of strategic investments. You were talking about this second point, construction of pipelines, renovation, expansion, reconstruction. Is this the kind of investment... There are many other investments This is not just about oil pipelines, where we could talk about expansion, reconstruction, renovation, demolition. Do we need a specialty for this type of activity, or do we need to use it? Well, probably, because it'll be easier, the procedures will be quicker, so that we can actually shorten these terms. But that's not the point. If these are strategic, important investments, none of us will protest. If there is a need, I do not know, to build a Gdansk oil pipeline or something else, an important investment, which really is a linear investment... Because there's always a lot of trouble with a linear investment when it comes to buying real estate, because with due compensation, and so on... These procedures often take a long time. This is understandable and we would probably vote in favour, while knowing these specialities and procedures, which are in some... I don't know if this bill... Yeah, she's probably similar. It is to be expected that the Ministry has made use of the laws that are already in place and has done the same. But I don't know if everything, or some of the deadlines that are here in the bill, especially as regards some of the permits that are needed... Whether there are statements in there instead of any permits, I find it difficult to say. That is why I cannot either, although it may be appropriate to vote in favour of this law, but I simply cannot vote in favour of this law in connection with the procedure. After all, it was possible to inform us, as it was about the other laws on which we dealt, and there were 12 of them in total, that there was also such a law on the list, and if there is a positive opinion of the committee, then we will proceed over it at this meeting. I would then check whether this printing number 1108 is already on the website, because probably, as it turns out, it was earlier. I didn't look in there. We got this print at the committee meeting. But if I knew that it was possible that this bill would be considered in this sitting, even if it were not, even if the marshal had later come to the conclusion that he did not, he would take it off, in any case if it had been signaled, then of course I would read that bill, and it's not that much, it's like 50 pages. If I knew that, I'd know what to ask the Minister today. Maybe we should explain something, we know that there may be some new solutions in the specialty, some that have not been introduced, maybe rightly, maybe well... There just wasn't time. If we want to proceed on the bill in this way, I wonder: why, why is the Senate sitting, why are we meeting, since we still have no possibility under the law... Here Senator Augustine quoted the article. The 4th bill on the MP's and senator's mandate reminded us of our responsibilities. I can say I can't do my job, I can't do my senator's job in this procedure. And it's not the first time. As I say, from this point of view of the particular situation, we use almost every committee meeting, which is unfortunately not in line with the rules that should apply. Therefore, unfortunately, although it may be a good bill, I cannot, without knowing it, vote. I'm not voting in the dark. I don't know, then, in a month or two, there might be an amendment to the bill because someone missed something. Our Legal Office hasn't given any opinion either, so it's hard to say if... If there is an amendment in the near future, because one of the investments must have caused the Minister to make this bill in such a rapid manner... If we didn't have to, we'd probably wait until March 20th. When it turns out you'll need a quick one. amendment of the bill... You will see for yourself that such a procession, like ours at the moment, is simply outrageous, unacceptable. We shouldn't be doing this, that's all.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u279	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the review of item 14 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on subscription fees. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1110 and the report of the Commission In print No 1110 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u280	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Usually, when I was rapporteur at this point, and I have done so many times, I said that I had the honour of presenting the position and report of the Committee on Culture and Media. This time I have to say with pain that I am ashamed to present this report, but it is not because its outcome is zero, because it does not indicate any support or negation, but because once again our committee met with something that is for me at all... I actually met for the first time with such a kind of debate that as chairman of the committee meeting I was informed an hour before the meeting. The Legal Office of the Senate Office was not notified at all, and therefore we had no legal opinion. Well, we weren't at all able to read the contents of this bill. She was scheduled for a meeting at the end of March, but the rules of procedure are that if I did not agree to this committee meeting, the marshal would have the right to order it to take place anyway. I will therefore first present the outcome of the meeting. Following the review of the Act at its meeting on 26 February 2019, the committee shall inform the Commission that none of the proposals put to the vote has received a majority of the votes. There were 2 applications, including a motion to reject the bill, a motion by Senator Jerzy Fedorovich, which is mine. Nor did Czesław Ryszka's request to adopt the law without amendments obtain acceptance. Now, however, I must say something, even though I have been ordered to convene a committee meeting at an absolutely extraordinary rate. Well, as a man who has been dealing with the media for years, for 14 years in the Sejm, I also sat on the bureau of the Sejm commission. I must say that this situation has not yet been put in place. It used to be that there were problems with the subscription and a joint project was prepared saying that it could possibly be decreed 900 million PLN from the state budget, but the crisis that occurred caused the government not to agree to this provision. From now on, all these years, we have failed to create the right subscription bill. We are also discussing this because such a promise was made at the beginning of our term of office by the rulers. Of course, when you answer questions, you will be speaking to the Minister, who, even though he is ill, appeared at the meeting. Of course, he couldn't be on time, because he was also notified quite late. The same was true with the representatives of the National Council. The director of the National Radio and Television Council could not give us her opinion because she was also notified too late. I don't know who's to blame. All I know is that it's still on the Senate Office and on us. I would like to say that I, of course, took a break, and during this break we received the opinion of the National Council to which we referred. The opinion of the National Council on printing 3123 indicated the disadvantages, but also the advantages of this law. The Act concerns the transfer of funds to the Finance Minister, at the request of the Minister of Culture, for the purchase of bonds which could, after selling them at the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, be allocated to the provision of public television. The debate held in the Sejm did not involve opposition Members indicating that this law has such a rapid mode, because elections are coming up, and that public television, as all opposition points out, This is particularly about television. It is the television of only one political group, i.e. a widely understood coalition of right-wing parties. That's why the money's being processed so quickly. They should appear in the account so that they can serve as a campaign to support the current rulers. Those are the words that fell from the Seym Tribune. Of course, it was similar in the Seym. In the Seym, the first reading took place at night. There was no answer to the question whether it was possible to proceed, and as a result after a turbulent debate in the Sejm Fortunately, it's not in the Senate, Mr. Marshal, it really impresses me. Members of the opposition have left the assembly. If there's any questions now, then... well, we still have an opinion I got. At the committee meeting she had not yet arrived, I received this opinion a moment later from the Office of Sejm Analysis. And here I am going to say that the conclusion of the BAS opinion is that the conclusion in item 4... The opinion concerns of course a number of legal solutions which this law introduces, but the conclusion signed by your director Przemysław Sobolewski is that the parliamentary draft law on amending the Act on subscription fees is covered by European Union law. And in the following sentence: "The bill may be considered as a public aid plan to be notified to the European Commission under Article. 108. 3 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Of course, the Minister has made it clear to us that such a notification is necessary, but we have stayed with each other. Therefore, representatives of the Senators' Club of the Civic Platform voted against the bill. As I said before, the senators on the ruling side were against it. Since there was no majority on either side or on the other side, the committee does not express an opinion. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Thank you, High Izbo.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u281	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Any of you... Senator Slugocki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u282	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator rapporteur, I have a question. You said that there was such a case in the history of Polish television when it was thought to finance Polish television from public funds. The first question: did this happen and whether this was ever the case in the history of Polish television I'm talking about the one after 1990, free television. So that the sum of one billion 260 million from the state budget, from public funds, from all taxpayers, can support public television, which, as you mentioned, is television with a rather bright profile? That's the first question. And I have a second question. Or was there a discussion about journalists' salaries? Because I wonder whether there is such an entity in Poland or in the world where workers earn significant, large, perhaps superb money for some, and the economic operator brings huge losses. That's the first two questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u283	Since there is free Poland and television is public, there has been no such case in history. Anyway, I don't remember that. Maybe the Minister can correct that if I'm wrong. There was a debate, an ongoing debate about whether or not. TV, and radio, of course, which have a mission... And the mission is a very broad term, it applies not only to educational or cultural programmes but also to information programmes for children; it can also be interpreted as entertainment programmes. Yeah, but that wasn't the case. However, television is by its public name, it is a company of the Treasury and governed by the company's rights. We did not discuss matters concerning journalists and their salaries at the committee meeting, it was not, of course, the subject of this meeting, actually the committee itself held very briefly, because they were not prepared for debate, neither our senators nor the Senators of the PiS, in any case those who... Yeah, well, they didn't really talk about it except for one person. In my view and in my view of the opposition, it is, however... Well, it's public aid. The Minister will answer that question. However, there is not everything that precise. Because notification can mean that the European Union can agree to this. There will be a debate on Mr Kurski's public television report... [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] ...and then we'll answer those questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u284	Thank you. I have a question for the rapporteur. Who called this committee meeting? Are you, at the command of a marshal or a marshal directly?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u285	It happened in a way that actually... I don't want to blame anyone, but it was like I was in a meeting. And I can even say with whom, because it was under my responsibility as chairman of the Senate commission: with an outstanding Polish writer, Mr.Józef Hen And naturally I had my phone turned off. Because I knew the Senate program. And because apparently this extraordinary mode had to be applied, my fellow senators were called by my office, which is by my secretariat, to the committee meeting. But the marshal invited me to his house to talk to him about it, so that it would be my agreement. Yeah, but when I came in, I... It's hard for me to explain, because I feel a little weird that this is how it all happened. Because that's not the way it's supposed to be in my head. But because I'm not lying, I'm gonna say it. Mr. Marshal had a meeting with the ambassador, so... I've read the rules in which it's said that if I didn't call a committee meeting, he's a marshal, according to the article. 59 Rules of Procedure, he has the right to convene this meeting himself. And so I held a meeting. I suppose it would normally be that if I hadn't been there, then... I don't know if I'd be subject to any rule of law or not. [[I could drive.]] In any case, there could be a fellow vice-president who would lead this committee meeting. Maybe I've been explaining myself too long. But I'm showing you how it was. [[What kind of question is that, Mr. Marshal?]] This is, Mr. Marshal, just the result of this... the fact that we're talking about this at all is the fault of this mess and the fact that we don't know who decides all this. Because I know very well that a debate on the subscription was held last week at the Sejm, very turbulent. And I, expecting that there might be a sitting, was prepared to hold this committee meeting on Monday. And then I found out that this committee meeting wasn't gonna happen. And quietly on March 19th, we had them planned. That's what happened. I don't know who decides, most likely the Senate, the Senate Office or the Marshal. [[The convention was.]] Is the convention, was it at the convention... I don't know, Mr. Marshal, please fire me from this answer. [[May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u286	Senator Rybicki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u287	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, as far as I understand your statement, there was no position of senate experts and legislators during the meeting of the committee convened in such a strange manner, although we know that the opinion of the Parliament's analysis office was devastating for the project. This law may be regarded as a public aid scheme for television. Has there been a substantive discussion about the public service mission itself, which is to be financed in such a strange way, a discussion about information and publicity programmes, all of which we kind of put on a public mission? Have there also been such considerations that maybe this is how the public television function and mission is carried out, as we see and evaluate it, is the cause of the current financial state of television, from which the viewers and advertisers turn away? Did such a substantive theme ever appear in the debate during the committee's work?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u288	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u289	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Here's what I'm gonna say. Going to the Senate, I looked at the work of the Senate for 12 years working in the Sejm. I knew that I would gain knowledge about laws and paragraphs from the Senate's office, the legal office. And on that basis, as head of the committee for years, I've been investigating things that, as a man who is not a lawyer, I'm not entirely sure. The rules are that my office, the people who support me... After all, they operate in the public interest, in Poland and in my interest. But if I don't get support because they didn't get the materials, I'm just asking a question. And I get the answer: you don't have our opinion because we didn't get the materials. The mission was discussed because Senator Barbara Zdrojewska and Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka are senators who are well aware of this issue. There were a number of questions. The Minister did not respond precisely because it is not very related to the content of the bill. The TV mission, Mr. Senator, is a huge scope, as I have already said. At the committee meeting, there were words. They're in the protocols. Which I also repeated. This is the opinion actually of all people who are opposed to the current power, the opinion that public television, radio can to a lesser extent become a propaganda tube of one party. This, of course, was mentioned at the committee meeting. There were also words that public aid in the form of bonds that could be legally justified... It's not like we can say that someone might be punished for it. Unfortunately, this aid can be legally justified, as many other things can. And this public aid is meant to serve the government's side during the election campaign. We're not basing that knowledge on any guesses, Mr. Senator. We know that... People who deal with TV programs, information and political, know what the time distribution is, how much time there is for the ruling group and how much time there is for the opposition group. This division is simply very unfair. It keeps coming back to make me nervous 'cause I'm old. There's still a comeback here, saying there's this in your day, and there's this in our day. Well, I have a memory, I have a head. Sometimes I reach for documents. I know what it used to look like. If it turns out that these funds will be used to make an exemplary and objective campaign presented on public television as you do during the election, that you organize your meetings and control yourself privately... Well, that would be an idea of a wonderful country. Such an opinion, however, that this appropriation is intended in principle for the campaign... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Well, Mr. Senator, then why... [[Voice from the room: I don't know anything.]] Then why were we asked, Senator, to sit on it in such a way? Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u290	Thank you. Senator Augustine is asking a question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u291	Mr President, I understand your difficult situation... [[It's what he wanted.]] ...because it's really - As far as I'm concerned. The announcements of the commission were sent beyond your knowledge, and only later did you find yourself faced with a dilemma, which in this situation... [[But I'd like to... sir, let me interrupt. That's what happened, but I don't want to blame anyone here because my office is working perfectly and if I could get a call, it would be for my knowledge. Then I would have made the decision.]] I see. Anyway, I understand that you didn't take it at the time. Therefore, either the marshal should have called a committee meeting on his own initiative, or it was necessary to abstain from it. Anyway, I think it should be regular... [[That's not true.]] ...and in this situation it may raise doubts. But regardless of all of this, I'd like to ask you two questions. Firstly, was there any specific legal basis given at the committee meeting that would force the government to compensate television for the relief it received in return for its lost influence? And were the calculations from which this amount came? Because these reliefs have been there for as long as I can remember, forever, and no compensation has been paid. So my next question is this, Mr President: have there been other reasons why this television needs to be funded? If the state of law hasn't forced this on us so far, what does it force us to do now? Were these reasons given? That's the first question. And secondly, whether these questions were said to be clearly correlated ..about the current financial situation of public media? If so, have financial difficulties and causes been mentioned? Because I understand it this way: even if financial difficulties were the reason for this change, it should be in the committee to discuss whether such pumping of funds into a mismanaged company makes sense at all. Was there a conversation about that?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u292	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u293	Yes, Senator, there have been questions to the Minister about the situation for which this law is being introduced in order to supplement compensation with these measures. It seems to me that the Minister will respond in detail to this. He also answered our questions. But, Minister, if I'm not mistaken, there are no specific amounts. The minister was asked that question by our senators, but the individual sums did not fall. Of course, we had a similar problem in those years, but we did not dare to introduce TV to be supported by public finances. Questions concerning the economy of the company and the losses or profits were also asked by Senator Jackowski in order to determine the state, so to speak, ownership for today, whether it is in debt in any way... There was also a question during the committee meeting about this loan of 880 million, which was granted... [[Voice from the room: A moment ago.]] ...from the state budget. The Minister answered this question, of course, with the fact that, if I'm not mistaken, Minister, there was no question when it would be repaid. But she's at a certain point... Now let me just say that these questions... Well, listen, since I'm in Parliament, how many times do we talk about the report of the National Radio and Television Council, questions go mainly to a television representative. And here it happened that there was no representative. To that end, Mr. Senator, it is not possible to discuss a law of this kind which has such financial consequences and such a change in the system that, so to speak, the funding of the media cannot take place at a committee meeting about which I know it can only last an hour, because this is taking place during the session. Because if we wanted the Minister's answer to all the questions that we carry inside us, it would take at least three hours of sitting. And now I'm being honest that this is the first time I've met with something like this, that I have a committee meeting at 4:30, and at the same time I know that at 5:30 a.m. the session is resumed. Well, that's my answer. For the rest of your questions, the Minister will answer you these precise questions... Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u294	Thank you. Now, Mr. Senator Rulewski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u295	The first question is who the applicant is. Because the petitioner is a minister, but the minister doesn't perform supervisory and television management functions... [[Members.]] ...the question then... the Minister is only as if he is a representative of public authority in many companies subordinate to the National Radio and Television Council, the National Media Council, so in my opinion the Minister is not even competent to answer these questions. And the questions are that kind of... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[What are you talking about?]] But I'm sorry. You'll be able to correct me... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: But why is Mr. Ryszka speaking?]] What? [[You're the ones that's on you?]] Yeah, that's fine. But not enough to interfere with questions. The first: whether the reasons why such a drastic financial operation, the second one and the following year, had to be taken into account... Reasons, i.e. costs of companies Let's not just talk about TV, but also about the radio... Two: ratings. And three: subscription receipts, advertising receipts... Was that confirmed by the ratings? 'Cause I'm still hearing one nuisance that public television is getting more and more successful in ratings by beating up other companies. And finally there was this question: if it is so bad, it can change the board and put the director of Rydzyk at the head, who does not have a state grant and TV is running? [[Mr. Senator...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u296	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u297	Excuse me, Mr. Marshal. I'll take the first part of that question... Because that question is already in the first part of your speech, isn't it? Why is this bill being introduced... the bill... Because if you're asking about the applicants... Is it the senator's concern for the bill's applicants? [[About the constitutional executives...]] The manager, the head, the supervisor of the State Treasury company, which is television, is the Minister of Culture... [[And heritage.]] ...and national heritage. And as far as the bill is concerned, this bill was a parliamentary project. And this envoy project is going its way, which is why... To be honest, the rapporteur of the parliamentary project doesn't have to be present in the Senate, but there is a custom. I don't want to defend the ministry officials. I've been working with them for so many years. But sometimes they aren't prepared because it wasn't their project. Mr. Senator, the minister is here. Would you kindly address him? Then the answer will be more precise. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u298	Thank you. Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u299	Thank you very much. Well, I would like to point out digressively that, although we have outstanding Members, we are constantly improving these parliamentary laws, so there is something wrong with this prominence. But it's such a digression. Mr. Senator, was there any discussion at the committee's meeting about how to improve the downloadability of the subscription? Since we read that the value of these tax vouchers, securities that are compensation for lost licence fees in 2018 and 2019 amounts to PLN 1 billion 260 million, my question is: did the Minister or anyone else share knowledge of how much these subscription fees should be? In what amount should they supply public television? That's one thing. Secondly, was there a correlation between what broadcasts public television and the proceeds of subscription fees? Because even though I don't watch this TV, I pay my subscription fees. It's very regular. So my question is, was there a discussion about the correlation between the support for the ruling party... because we know that it is 46 And according to public television, it's probably 280%. So how does this relate to the proceeds from the subscription? Shouldn't it be that... if everyone is in favour of the ruling party and the ruling party is giving out gifts to the right and left, perhaps the subscription payments should be much higher. Was there a discussion about this? Finally, the last question to you was: was there a discussion on what steps the relevant state authorities took to increase these revenues from the subscription? Has anyone presented such a catalogue of actions? That's all for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u300	Thank you. [[May I, Mr. Marshal?]] Of course, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u301	Thank you very much. No, we didn't talk about it at the committee meeting. We didn't ask you that much. These questions usually arise at the time of adoption of the National Radio and Television Council report. Mr. Senator, the law says that a citizen has a duty to pay a radio-television subscription, and a citizen who evades that obligation is punished. We didn't talk about it at the committee meeting, but since I'm dealing with it, I want you to know that people who haven't paid permanently for years and aren't subject to all this relief as an elderly person or a disabled person... Well, sometimes the IRS comes to them and they have to pay it back years. That's the kind of stuff people talked to me about. But that wasn't the case at the hearing, Senator. Well, you can't deal with the specific issues you're talking about in a moment, especially in a situation where we have to debate the basis of this bill. If that's a precedent... It is stated in the explanatory memorandum that the need for the proposed law is due to the lack of adequate, stable, predictable and long-term public funding of public media in Poland. The answer is simple. Well, if it's gonna be long-term and predictable, then we have to make a bill. And if there's a bill, we'll probably be able to deal with it. Our questions were mostly addressed to the Minister and the Minister kind of calmed us down to the UKE's opinion... Am I right? Yes. Because the basis was whether or not there was a breach of state aid rules under European Union law. Well, that's what the Minister will answer. This problem will continue, ladies and gentlemen, as long as we do not realise that television is better than any, but it is public, not political television. And that's something we've always had in mind.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u302	Thank you. Mr. Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u303	Since you've made a commitment, Senator, to a difficult mission to be the rapporteur for this... this... [[Laws.]] ...this strange bill, please mention to me just one reason why we should agree to lay out a huge amount of PLN 1 billion 300 million from the taxpayer's pocket, i.e. an amount comparable to the amount that the Ministry of Infrastructure, as stated by Minister Adamczyk, supported all the local, communal and district roads in Poland last year to finance this propaganda tube of the government, along with information programs that not only lie, but also sometimes, as we have seen the naked eye, organize provocations in front of their building. Give me at least one reason why such an institution, which deviates from any European standards concerning information and publicity programmes, would be financed by the taxpayer. I'm asking for at least one reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u304	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u305	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I didn't find a reason. I have to say, I haven't found him because for years, so to speak, we've been dealing with it, and there was no reason for that either during the three-year rule of law and justice... that is, the current coalition. Apart from the loan of PLN 880 million, there has not been such a thing. There were problems, from which television had to come out by dragging e.g. Some kind of loan. There were problems TV had to... Well, television, or rather the public media, had to come out of it by reducing their jobs. There were reasons why he kept coming back in this debate about the release of journalists on television and their transition to companies. But at that time, the president and the board knew that public finances could not be used, but that it was necessary to act as the company does. Of course, I can cite some of the reasons, because they were in the public debate. E.g. That we want to use this money to make it more often. Television Theatre And it was often directed to me because I played at the Television Theatre and he was cool. Or they said they'd be like. huge expenditure related to the sports programme, which is very much welcome by citizens. Citizens, without access to other media, because these are too expensive, cannot watch such programs. And suddenly the president of TV shows that the game in which the Polish player plays has an audience of 3.5 million, bought it from the show... But please let me be excused from answering the question of how you run a company like this. This is a company that really requires management by a manager from a real event. She has her own rules, and among these principles there is no public function. The other side is the part that says that there is, however, the citizen who pays for the cable and who pays for the digital viewing. He can't understand why he has to pay extra for the program that he has thanks to these decoders anyway. Except this is already a subject for a completely different meeting, this is a subject related to the preparation of a new law that is... It is the Minister who will answer the question when she can finally appear in the debate on the public path. I suspect not this year. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u306	Thank you. Mr. Senator Grabowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u307	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question, of course, for the rapporteur, but first I would like to refer to what the previous speaker just said, as he asked the question, Senator Slugocki, about 280% of his support. Well, as far as I know, Senator Slugocki is a scientist, a professor, hopefully not a science. Talking about 280% support... I think 80%. That's enough. [[I'm sorry, but the support of who, what?]] Well, Senator Slugocki used such a phrase that the ruling party has 40% in public media, 50% , or maybe 280% support. So that I hope you don't teach science Senator Slugocki lectures. I'm going to address you as a specialist, a prominent specialist, a lifetime of media. Your whole life is about the media, so you just know it. I would like you to answer me, Senator, to the question of how you see the differences between the public media in terms of the mission, because you have used the words "mission" several times, four times. - Five. - maybe six times, and private media. What programmes are implemented in public media for public money and which are not implemented in non-public media? Are non-public programmes for children, natural programmes, popular science programmes implemented and to what extent? Besides, I'd like to know... Because you compare the legal forms of companies, says they are companies, Polish Television S.A. is the same legal form as other media, non-public, right? I would also like to know how these companies operate and whether they have private companies, for example. regional units which carry out the mission, a very costly mission at regional level. We can take public television from regional centres and have no public media in the regions, no media, which are actually very much needed media. I will talk about the example of Silesian voivodship. It is excellent there, so to speak, a tool for communicating information, what is happening in the region. What are the operating costs of regional branches? Was that moved? And another question... [[May I? Why don't you wait and I'll answer those questions.]] Okay, I'll finish this up in a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u308	Mr. Senator, I see that you are taking care of the problem, and I will answer you: of course, it wasn't a committee meeting, we talked about the mission. Only if you're watching TV, you can only watch one TV, but if you watch one TV. Discovery Channel, right, and he'll look into the mission he's... [[These are cable channels.]] No, no, this is... I know that these are cable channels, only that these TV stations, working in private conditions, are also very highly implementing the mission. Not more than yesterday when I watched nature around Poznań on the Planet platform. About... We're no different when it comes to looking at TV, except for one thing, except that it's supposed to be public, because the mission... I'll give you an example of how it was when, let's say, the Platform and PSL ruled. There was a program by Janek Pospieszalski, and I can talk about Janka, because he was a musician, so I was his friend. And this program was very fiercely attacking, so to speak, our environment, to the extent that I said: Janek, I will not come to you. And that was the so-called one. pluralism. Sir, I'll tell you... I'm invited on public television to debate the art of theater, and a journalist asks me questions about Amber Gold for 10 minutes. So, sir, is this public television? This is political television. And it'll be great if the journalist is independent. And here's the thing: fire me... I am already, Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind, I'm not going to develop it like this. I'm just gonna answer what was at the committee meeting and what wasn't. [[That's right.]] But, seeing your interests, I invite you to the meetings of my committee when the Council report is adopted and there will be a meeting with President Jack Kurski. [[Can we come too?]] You all can. Well, that's your right. [[I'd like to ask, briefly...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u309	Mr. Senator, you can ask, just ask questions. Okay?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u310	Mr. Senator, thank you for your answer. But I would like to raise one more point. Does non-public television have such programs, similar of course non-commercial, unbroken advertising, that is important from the point of view of television's profitability How ABC TV for children, TVP History, TV Polonia? [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: But it doesn't fit into the subject.]] Do non-publics that operate non-commercially have such television panels? And one more thing I'd like to ask you, is this... [[Yeah, there are TVs they have. Canal+ shows videos without interrupting.]] ...TVs, as you say, of the regime, of the government, are there politicians of the Civic Platform or the Civic Coalition, or not? Are they on the show or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u311	Mr. Marshal, well, I can answer... It wasn't... Mr. Senator, I know I'm not performing. In my opinion, Members of the Civic Coalition and the European Coalition do not appear on public television. Well, I don't remember anyone anymore. But maybe you can fix me. But let me tell you this: we're not different in the mission program, we're different in the TV management program. I'm not going to say that TVP Culture, that TVP History, that natural programs or fairy tales for children is wrong. I'm not gonna say it. I'm just gonna say that television is probably mismanaged. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: There's a discussion going on here.]] [[Don't answer that.]] Therefore, it still demands state aid Whatever you call it, so call it. Because he can't handle what he's doing. And that could be the cause. It may turn out that... there was a question like this. from Senator Sługocki. If I have any... Well, I was in charge of the theater. If I don't have the resources, I'll lower my salary. Please be kind to me. Ask for the bill, will you? [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] Mr. Marshal, can I have the bill...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u312	Senator rapporteur, I don't interfere with reporting. That's what you call it. You'll be signed up, Senator, for me, because I volunteered for you. Now she's asking you a question, Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u313	Mr President, I would like to ask you to present this dispute, which took place at the meeting of the Committee on Culture, concerning the notification to the European Commission. And a request to present the legal opinion of the Parliament's legislative office on this, and later on the opinion of the UOKiK presented by the Minister. And just to present these doubts around it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u314	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u315	You're welcome. Well, about that... the theme of our meeting was mostly whether it was public aid, which could result in a breach of European law. And I have a print in front of me on 14 January, where the conclusions state that the parliamentary bill amending the Act on subscription fees is covered by European Union law. This is the first one. And that's the truth. But it also says that a notification can be made that European law will not be infringed. In the second sentence, the conclusion of BAS is that the draft law can be regarded as a public aid plan which is notified to the European Commission under Article. 108. 3 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. This means that at the time of notification, of course, the Minister will better answer this question. Our doubts will be resolved. And now, I have already talked about this, on the basis of this opinion UKE has issued another kind of opinion, which allows this law to pass because it will in principle not violate European law. I'm not a lawyer, and maybe it's harder for me to formulate that precise thinking... If the senator were kind enough to ask this question to the Minister, he might answer precisely. The point is, let's all be clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u316	Thank you. Senator Boris-Damięcka. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u317	Because this discussion has developed and gone in a completely different direction than the direction in which today's meeting was held... It doesn't make sense, because this is really the topic of the National Radio and Television Council report... But I would like us to return to the beginning of your report, as a result of an outrageous meeting that took place under scandalous conditions, insulting the rightful and proper procedure... I will, Mr President, ask you questions because at the moment there is a stage in asking questions. If you would be so kind as to answer only "yes' or "no'. [[Good.]] Don't grow, don't expand... [[Good. Well, thank you very much...]] ...just answer yes or no. Please answer the following questions... I will ask you a number of questions, which immediately after the question please say yes or no. My first question: were there any documents presented at this ad hoc meeting on an accelerated basis, apart from one piece of paper, that the committee was convened? Yes or no. They were presented with some kind of... [[They weren't.]] ...other documents?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u318	No.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u319	They weren't. Thank you. Next question: in the questioning phase... Because these were, after all, and from your report, especially at the beginning, it did not appear that there were a number of questions that we asked and to which we either did not receive the answers, or that were evasive, because both the Minister and the Director of the National Office of the Radio and Television Council were not competent about the questions. Whether we know whether a group of Members who are the authors of this law is a group of competent, professional people, is about the people who wrote this law. Or did they cooperate with competent people who know the issue of financing such a large institution as public television? Did somebody give us that kind of information? Because that's the question I asked. [[No, there was no such information, and I do not know the names of the Members who signed. If I knew them, I could tell you...]] Shortly, yes or no.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u320	No.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u321	Thank you. The next question is: did the question arise as to why the sum of 1 billion 200 million and not any other? And since it's such a high sum, do we have any information on the subject that the public television company started returning the loan granted to it during this term of office in 2018 of PLN 800 million? [[980 million.]] Has this loan been repaid? And what did that loan go for? Has anyone answered this question?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u322	No.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u323	Thank you. [[Thank you very much.]] This isn't over, Senator... [[Oh, I'm sorry.]] [[Mrs. Senator...]] This isn't over. I have two more questions. [[Good. If there's more, I'll ask you to split it up.]] [[Second tour.]] I'm gonna ask two questions, and I'm not gonna ask anymore. [[You're welcome.]] May I? [[Please, if you have two questions.]] Yes. It's the last question. Is there an answer to the question of what this sum, one billion 200 million, is going to be allocated?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u324	No.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u325	Thank you. And one last question. Has anyone explained to us why, apart from the Minister, who had been dragged out of the house and arrived late, which is understandable, and the director who was unable to take any documents because she was downloaded instantly... We haven't even received the opinion of the National Radio and Television Council. We received it later. Was there any high representative of the public television board, the president, the vice president of public television or any official responsible for public television finances?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u326	No. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Thank you. No more questions.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u327	Thank you. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Mr. Marshal, to sum up, this is what our sitting looked like.]] Thank you, Senator. Mr. Senator Klich. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u328	There's no committee opinion because the votes are balanced. Therefore, as rapporteur, you must explain to us, Senator, because the opinion does not explain what the legal structure is. Since 2005, there has been a licence fee law providing for exemptions. It has been in force since 2005, and it is 2019. So for 14 years there have been exemptions from subscription fees for certain categories of people. And now suddenly, all of a sudden, the taxpayer is expected to spend nearly 1 billion 300 million in 2018 and 2019. The aim is to finance losses which have been incurred as a result of the exemption from these charges only in the years 2018 to 2019. I don't get it at all. Either that bill is changing, and the subscription waivers are abolished, if they're real, actually the cause of the losses, or it's just a complete drink on water, and so to speak, about the financial injection, about the government's propaganda tube continuing to carry out its propaganda mission. [[That's what I'm talking about.]] What's it like, Senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u329	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u330	Mr. Senator, you answered your own question. If you don't understand, then what am I supposed to say, a mere mortal, not a former minister? [[He's the future minister.]] I'll tell you, I have someone in my family to ask, and I'll give you a written answer. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I have a lawyer's son.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u331	I see. Senator, the commitments to respond in writing concern ministers. Of course, you can ask the Minister a question, Senator rapporteur, and the Minister will have to answer you in writing. But of course, if you want to correspond with Senator Klich, I don't mind. Now I'm asking the question. [[Even worse.]] Mr. Senator, are you... I see that President Jack Kurski, president of public television, is not here, although the bill concerns his company. Tell me if he was at the committee meeting. If he wasn't... Was he invited? [[He must have been sick.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u332	He wasn't at the committee meeting. I don't think he was invited. And I don't know who's to blame. It's very possible that I did, but I've already explained... [[I'm not asking who's to blame, that's not what's important...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[It's the president's fault.]] [[...just whether he was or wasn't, and...]] Mr. Marshal, if you've sued... [[Do you want to expand? Please...]] I'll check it out. [[Jurek, answer in writing.]] [[In writing.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u333	Is this the sum of 1 million 260,000... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Wait, I need to focus.]] ...is on this public television somehow directed? [[Voice from the room: Billion.]] One billion 260 million. Is it addressed to thematic channels, history, culture, sport or not? [[Voice from the room: No.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u334	There wasn't such a... This is not the content of the bill. In the bill... [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] Is it? Well, in that case... Because it was run in such a way that I couldn't look... The Minister answered that question, but if the Minister tells me when, then I...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u335	No, I'll ask the Minister again... [[Oh, good.]] ...the Minister is waiting in line for questions. [[That's for the best.]] Senator Grabowski signed up. There isn't. [[Jurek, go get some rest.]] Mr. Senator, more questions for you... [[Thank you.]] [[I've got another one.]] Oh, one more Senator Klich... [[And me.]] ...and Senator Florek. Come on, two more...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u336	I can't help how the opposition senator acts as rapporteur for this bill. I must ask the senator about the following: was there any mention of this at all, did anyone raise the subject of changing the defective, even harmful system of supervision of public television, introduced first by a small and later by a large media law? We remember what this is about, because we in this House discussed this at the end of 2015 and in 2016 the National Media Council, I mean. National Media Council... [[She was supposed to improve.]] ...which doesn't differ much. Maybe there wasn't a Senate back then. From the Radio-Committee. Has it been said that there's some kind of readiness for such a huge amount of money? Or maybe a proposal to change the structure of TV surveillance that would force a move away from the propaganda model towards a model of objective information to the public?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u337	Thank you. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u338	Mr Senator, during the debate, questions were raised by the two senators concerning the absence of representatives of the National Media Council, because this concerns this group, which has the strictest supervision of radio and television. Well, as a result, we didn't go that far, because in this short period of time we were mainly asking the Minister questions about what is the content of the bill. [[And it's not there.]] No, no.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u339	Thank you. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u340	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, it appears from the senator's statement that during the committee meeting, a very important committee meeting, because it is PLN 1.26 billion of budget money, when it is necessary to watch this money from all sides, because there are a lot of other expenses, very important... I would like to know whether the Senators of Law and Justice also attended this committee meeting. Because from those speeches, as I heard you say, it didn't seem... I would like to know whether the Senators of Law and Justice also attended a committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u341	Well, Mr. Senator, if there was a score of 5:5... I don't think our senators are the only ones playing a draw. The senators were there, they were there... I must say that the questions asked by the senators by one opposition senator were quite difficult for the minister, but the result of the vote is as it is. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u342	Senator, there are no more questions for you. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you. [[You volunteered to be the Senator Rapporteur? You volunteered?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] The draft law was introduced by Members. [[And they've come together.]] Would Minister Paweł Lewandowski like to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Paweł Lewandowski: No.]] But there will be questions for you, Minister, so that I invite you to the podium. [[They will because I volunteered.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Fedorovich's equivalent...]] Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u343	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, when Jacek Kurski was the president of television, he said he would pursue And it is his intention to ensure that public television in Poland meets the standards that British citizens set on BBC television that this is some kind of reference point. Does the Minister believe that this intention of President Kurski has been fulfilled? [[Correct!]] Second question. Minister Czabański in the High Chamber in 2016, when adopting the Act on the National Media Council, asked about the subscription law, declared to the public that during the year he would prepare an amendment to the subscription bill. I would like to ask the Minister as the person who oversees this sector and this issue, whether there is any work going on on on a new law or a law amending the rules of subscription collection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u344	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u345	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! As far as the first question is concerned, I find it difficult to answer it, because I assume that there should be a separation of power from television and that is why I never comment publicly. either positive or negative What's happening on TV so that no one thinks I'm trying to influence TV as a supervisory authority. Let me answer that question in this way. [[More surveillance.]] As for the second question concerning the amendment or the new subscription law or any system of fees, as far as I know, 2 draft laws were addressed to the Sejm. It is up to the Sejm to decide how and how to proceed projects that are directed to the Sejm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u346	Thank you. Mr. Senator Rulewski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u347	This is not an accusation against you... But do you feel in the right place to answer these many questions? As far as I'm concerned, you don't own... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Paweł Lewandowski: Ma.]] No. It says here in the bill that... [[Voice from the room: You're right.]] ...you're the middleman for the money transfer. [[Minister of Treasury...]] [[Voice from the room: According to the bill...]] The Ministry of Treasury, as Senator Klich said, represents the National Media Council. And it's her... It's in the bill, Minister... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Paweł Lewandowski: This is not the case.]] ...that she took over many of the functions, although not all of the functions... [[Voice from the room: In the first...]] She took over the management of the council, their choice, the board of directors... Well, these are ownership functions, you'll admit, dismissing board and board of directors. But let's assume... There's a gap, a white spot. We know that this bill is intended to compensate for the loss of relief. In the explanatory memorandum, even you write I don't know if it's you who wrote it, which is why I'm asking you that... there's another gap, and that's because under the PiS, at least half of the required subscribers don't pay their subscription. What's next? How's it gonna be covered?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u348	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u349	Ladies and gentlemen! As far as ownership functions are concerned, the President of the Council of Ministers, in accordance with the State Property Management Act, supervises all companies of the State Treasury, including strategic companies. Such companies include Polish Radio and TV. He's exercising his ownership rights... I mean. Ownership powers were delegated to the Minister for Culture and National Heritage I, on his behalf, exercise these powers. These rights relate to the exercise of the law of shares of companies. The only powers that the Minister of Culture and National Heritage does not have are powers related to the appointment and dismissal of supervisory boards and company presidents. Such powers were in fact never even held by the Minister of the Treasury, regardless of the law as it was. In the case of radio and television, large radio and large television, there was only the power to delegate 1 member of the Supervisory Board by the Minister of Treasury and 1 member of the Supervisory Board by or in agreement with the Minister of Culture; I can no longer remember how it was in the previous Act. Thus, the regime of appointment of supervisory boards and company presidents has never been, or at least for the last 20 years has not been in the domain of executive authority, but has always been in the domain of another institution. It was usually the National Radio and Television Council, at the moment it is the National Media Council. As far as other powers are concerned, e.g. supervision of spending money on a public mission, this supervision is not carried out by the Minister of Culture or the Treasury, but only by the National Council of Radiophony and Television, which is de facto the owner of the subscription money and all the money that, on the right of the subscription, receives to be distributed for the execution of the public mission. The public mission is basically just and exclusively... If we didn't carry out a public service mission, the company could actually finance itself without a problem. So that there is no doubt: the money that is spent under the law, even that law that you have in front of you, is money for a public mission only. It's not money to pay off liabilities. They can't be spent for that purpose, they can only be spent on a public mission that's approved by... [[There's a subscription...]] This is in the programme-financial plans approved by the National Radio and Television Council with the participation of the Public Media Programme Councils and the Minister of Culture. This money is absolutely not used for other purposes and cannot be used this way. Under this law, this provision of the article is repeated once again. 11a, regarding the transfer of treasury securities... etc. For compensation referred to in paragraph 1, point 3: 1, the relevant provisions of the Act on Radiophony and Television relating to subscription fees shall apply. Ergo: in accordance with Article. 21 Radio and TV Acts can only be issued for missionary purposes. And it's a commitment. And there's been a misunderstanding here in the courtroom that there's no rule of law ordering these cases to be financed by the state. Well, it's an art. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3, which clearly states that all such missionary activities should be financed by public money, in one way or another, because if we commission any public action to any entity, i.e. not coming from the essence of the entity, i.e. companies, then we have to give money for it. For example, local government units. Every time a state imposes a new obligation on local government units, these units They're right to demand money. And when they don't get them, they go to the Constitutional Court and usually win these kinds of cases. There are no longer situations where new tasks are imposed and that money is not added. It must be remembered that public television carries out a public mission, i.e. it pursues public objectives and must therefore be financed by public money. If it had not achieved these objectives, it would have balanced, I assure you. I have a report on the state of television right now. I'm saying this because there were questions about television. At the moment, it is still pre-balanced; it shows that TV is balancing on a small profit of about PLN 190 million. [[Including the loan?]] Yes, of course. The loan wasn't entirely used, part of the money, as I recall, was probably returned. But don't get too attached to it, I'd have to check it out. However, as I remember correctly, by 30 December 2023 television is to return the borrowed loan, of course in instalments. I guess that's it. [[There was a question about the gap in the title...]] Oh, the gap, of course. 13.5 million households are subject to a fee obligation, i.e. 13.5 million households in general. Registered receivers are in about 5.5 million households and half of these households are exempt from subscription. These are exemptions from various titles, e.g. disability, retirement age, etc. In turn, only 13% of the remaining half pay the subscription. And we haven't found a correlation between what television what it broadcasts, and how many people pay the subscription. But there's another correlation, and there's a very clear correlation. Because there was a clear decrease in the revenues from subscription fees at a time when some politicians publicly urged not to pay those fees. It was, of course, catastrophic, but not so much for television, but for the citizens. When people hear that an important high-profile character says not to pay a subscription, which means not to do any duty, they think the law allows it. And it doesn't allow it, and so many people are being held accountable at this point. They must pay the fees together with interest. They justify that someone once said in the Seym at the platform that such a subscription should not be paid. That's the correlation I've seen... [[Minister, as a question, please...]] I think I answered that question. [[No.]] Only 13% of this half pay a subscription. If there was a 100% efficiency of the system, the subscription revenues would amount to about PLN 3.3.5 billion. At the moment there are about 600 million zlotys of subscription revenue. [[You suggested with the expression of some important politicians, well, but the question was whether and with what means TV and radio, especially radio, because it is the most deficit, will cover the loss due to violation of subscription discipline by millions of subscribers.]] Television from its own means of such loss is not obliged to supplement. [[No, of course not.]] Of course, because a public mission... [[Then where's she gonna get the money?]] Again... [[Where's she gonna get the money?]] Public television is... [[It takes, as you say, 3.5 billion.]] Public television carries out a public service mission exclusively through public funds Only from those measures which are written in the form as in this Act, or e.g. from a subscription. And to be clear, television is not obliged to carry out missions with other means than public funds. Television could create much higher quality programs, much better if it had much more resources. Yes? Maybe there'd be more high-quality TV shows, high-quality TV theaters. They are also at a high level, but maybe there would be more and it would be better. Thus, in this respect, It's obviously... [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u350	Senator Augustine. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u351	I couldn't take it anymore because... I disagree with the Minister. Good programs require good managers and good editors, not some ideological propaganda. But there's something else I wanted to draw attention to. If we now recognise the right to claim public television in respect of a subscription not paid as a result of relief, we will decide on a great financial burden. It is not merely that this claim once recognised will apply to those 2 years, the claim once may be recognised, in law, at any time extended for all years. The funding of the public service mission by means of... So what do you say? In the light of commercial law, the recognition of such a claim may impose on you, a company, an obligation to insist... And even without taking into account whether or not someone already recognizes it. We'll take that decision once and for all, that's the right thing to do. And if it's due, why should it be due in two years and not in 14 years? Did you consider that? That's the first question. Second question. Because funding a public mission can be either from a subscription or directly from other sources, in any case budget That's what you're in charge of. I take this bill, on the one hand, as the helplessness of the public authorities, of the television board, as the admission of helplessness... If 13% of the obliged pay, then it's just a shame to stand on the platform. Whether it's sooner or not, it's always been a shame now. When this is over and what are you doing? That's my question. So that those who are obliged to do so, not taxpayers, and for the second time really, can pay? [[Voice from the room: First time]] And I personally do. And I would ask you to refer to this, to say whether this was the case or not. The fact that you are referring to this subscription only for one reason, and it must be made clear, in my opinion, that it is necessary not to put yourself at risk by the European Union. You were looking for an excuse to fund a company called Public Television, so that the Union couldn't... so that it couldn't consider it illegal public aid. And that's it. Do you agree with this statement?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u352	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u353	As far as the management of the company is concerned, the sales of the company's own company increased by 24% last year. This means that if the company had not carried out the public service mission at all, it would have had a very large profit. Thus, from this point of view, it can be considered to be a very well-managed company. If each company had such an increase in their own sales, it would, in my opinion, be pretty good. As for the various issues that you have taken up, most of the answers to your questions are in the Radio and Television Act. E.g. when it comes to the question of sources of funding. The sources of funding are clearly indicated, I'm already telling you exactly where... According to Art. 31 Revenues are from subscription fees, interest on late payment and penalties for the use of unregistered radio and television receivers, trading of broadcasting rights, commercial communications and other sources. Other sources are e.g. State budget subsidy, issues related to the issuance of Treasury bonds for this purpose, etc. etc. [[Aren't you afraid of claims? That was my question.]] When it comes to claims, TV cannot have claims, for a simple reason: because we have claims against television, not television against us. Because we're the ones who have to do something. And to accomplish these tasks, television has to have money for it. So every time we order a job, we pay for it. So, basically... [[And if we don't pay, then television...]] If we don't pay, TV doesn't have to do this kind of thing. And he doesn't do it. Then it does not include them in the programming and financial plans, which are approved by the National Council of Radio and Television. Because I remind you that such programs are not the domain of the Minister of Culture, but of the National Radio and Television Council. Such a program is prepared by the company Television Polska and other companies It is submitted to the National Council of Radio and Television, the National Council approves it or not. So that's like, uh... He says we'll pay for it, we won't pay for it. If the National Council does not want to pay for something, then television is not obliged to do so. Normally, on the basis of clashing positions, 2 entities discuss with each other and agree on the price of services that television will actually perform as part of a subscription that it will receive. And that's the whole point. There's no claim here, because it's not like TV is doing missionary work itself, and then it's billing itself. This is the opposite: first we are going out for some amount and for tasks for this amount, and it is only within this amount that public television has a duty to carry out the tasks. [[Then why do we call it compensation for a lost subscription? Let's give the money and get out of here.]] That's why, sir, we call it compensation for a lost subscription that we care about making the public mission more extensive. And there must be a legal basis for such a mission to be carried out more broadly, better and at a higher level. This is compensation for all that was not realized because there was no money. And since we want these tasks to be accomplished... That's where the compensation came from. She is issued on the same terms as for the chapter... for the same tasks as the subscription. And the National Radio and Television Council participates in this process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u354	Thank you, Minister. Now maybe I'll ask two questions. Are these funds, PLN 1 billion 260 million, which will be handed over to public television, limited by any indications thematic or programmed in terms of this public mission? Or, for example, is there an indication that some of this money is going to go to thematic channels such as history, culture or sport, or is there no such indication at all? That's the first question. Second question: did the government make a notification in connection with this law to the European Union? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u355	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. As far as the distribution of money is concerned, as I have already mentioned, the compensation referred to in paragraph 1. 1, the provisions of the Act on Radiophony and Television relating to subscription fees shall apply accordingly. And here's the art. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1a, which says that for the public task of radiophony and television resulting from the implementation of the mission referred to in paragraph 1. 1, include, in particular, the creation and dissemination of national and regional programmes, programmes for recipients abroad, the creation and dissemination of specialised programmes, the construction and operation of broadcasting and relay radio and television stations, the dissemination of text messages, the development of new techniques for the creation and dissemination of radio programmes, etc., etc. I'm not gonna read all this. Everyone can see it. And therefore, this money can only be spent on those issues which are described exactly in this provision. With regard to the way they are released, the National Radio and Television Council decides in what proportion and for which part the money will be allocated. My talks with the head of the KRRiT show that there will be a great deal of emphasis on more money going to regional stations to make regional programmes much higher quality. The same applies to the allocation of money to regional radio stations. In this case too, there will be more emphasis on more resources. At the same time, I cannot speak for the National Council of Radio and Television, and the money that is here is basically in the domain of the National Council of Radio and Television. Moreover, the Act states that it is the National Radio and Television Council that will determine by resolution the amount of compensation referred to in paragraph 1. 1, not more than the amount that we have written down in the bill. It means it could be, for example. less. Well, it may be smaller if the National Radio and Television Council approves the programming and financial plans, which will simply result in a different range of services. So this amount may be quite different, although I am convinced that the companies will try to match more or less the amount that is registered in the Act. Mr. Marshal asked for a notification. As far as notification is concerned, it concerns new state aid schemes, not state aid, which is aid. As far as I know, it's not the government... Since this is not a government project, it is a parliamentary project, the Marshal of the Sejm asked the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection to give an opinion on this matter. The Office for Competition and Consumer Protection is the only authority in Poland that decides such matters. In fact, his decisions are binding. Of course, there may be different opinions of different lawyers, but the basis for all government institutions is the opinion of the OOKiK. And now, I'm not gonna read the whole opinion, I'm just gonna try to read the conclusion. This opinion naturally reached the Sejm. It therefore appears that these changes should not affect the assessment of the compatibility of the existing financing scheme for public broadcasters in Poland and should therefore not be subject to notification to the European Commission. This follows from the conclusion which is contained in the letter of 21 January sent to Mrs Beata Mazurek, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, by the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection. It was in connection with the procedure of this law that your marshal requested such an opinion. I can't discuss the opinion of a specialist body. If that's what the specialized authority thinks, then we accept it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u356	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Senator Kobiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u357	Mr. Marshal! Minister! It's like it's circling around here, but I'm gonna try to ask it as easily as I can. What makes you think it's two years' worth of compensation, not a year's or three years' worth of compensation? And second question. Why should this compensation go to television in 2019 instead of 2018 or 2020? Why is 2019 so special that TV gets over PLN 1 billion more?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u358	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u359	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! As far as this amount is concerned, we have already paid compensation in the amount of PLN 960 million. It was a year ago or... No, two years ago, we paid 960 million zlotys for exactly the same title. And it was a government project back then. I'm guessing the amount that's been set here is two years' worth. This should be PLN 2 times 960 million, but as I remember correctly, the justification of this law shows that this amount was set at PLN 1 billion 260 million due to budgetary possibilities. And that was basically the main reason that this amount was set in this way. Why all these years? Well, we can only pay for years when some things haven't been done. Basically, we can't pay for the future. And that's probably one of the reasons why it's that kind of money. It must also be taken into account that 2019 is in progress at this point, so in my assessment of the forecast Only that I do not know this, the questions about this should in principle be questions to those who wrote this law, may have covered the period of entry into force of the Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u360	Thank you. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u361	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, could you give us a percentage, even though you say it's a matter of the National Radio and Television Council How much of this €1 billion 260 million gets central television, how many regional centres, and how much radiophony in general? E.g. Please give this, based on this example 2 years ago, only to reduce the emotional tension on the other side of the room a little bit and show that not everything will go for this so hated central television state.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u362	In my opinion, given the proportions of the previous... Just remember, this is... I can only estimate it, because I don't know what the National Radio and Television Council will decide. And I know that they want to change this proportion, so it's clear from the conversations with them. About 800 million PLN will go to the television, some 850.860 million, and the rest of the money will go to other companies, including the big radio and 17 regional companies. [[Radio?]] Yeah, radio. [[On TV, they're gonna put together...]] There are no regional television companies. [[There's only centers. The senator asked, as I understand it, about regional centers. Yes?]] [[I understand that there's no way out of this 800 million, how much is there for regional centers...]] It is possible and this is the result of the programming and financial plans approved by the National Radio and Television Council. And she can make sure that the corresponding amounts are saved in such a project, e.g. for centres or productions made by centres. It depends on what algorithm works. [[And what was it like two years ago? Because... just so we know...]] It's hard to say. At this point, I don't remember... [[It's hard to say.]] ...what kind of money it was.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u363	Thank you, Minister. Senator Klich is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u364	I believe Senator Rulewski meant a small amendment to the Act on Radiophony and Television, which gave the Minister of the Treasury the opportunity to appoint and dismiss both the supervisory board and the board of directors. In addition, competition proceedings were resigned when they filled their posts, saying that television was then taken over by the government on 7 January 2016. By the way: January 7th is the moment when this law was published in the Official Journal of the Laws. And how would you, as a public television supervisor, assess such an event that the editor calls the parliamentarian and says to him these words: please keep your comments about TV for yourself, because... I mean. It would be better if you kept your comments on TV for yourself, because it is us, journalists, who are not making TV, and you, parliamentarians, who are not doing politics. How would you assess the editor's attitude towards a parliamentarian? Is it accepted, or is it normal? 'Cause I'll be honest with you, when after I took over from the Communists' hands the TV center in Cracow, I was in charge of it, and I was the head of the information department... If I had heard of such an event in 1990 and 1992, I would have thrown out such a reporter with a bang. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Paweł Lewandowski: Regarding the question...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u365	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u366	As far as questions are concerned, I would remind you that the Minister of Culture and National Heritage is supervising and exercising the rights of the action, that is to say, it may constitute a general assembly when it comes to television. As regards the competence of the general meeting, it is neither the management of the company nor the interference with the programme issues nor, in particular, staff issues. According to Art. 13 Radio and TV Act Management Board itself and manages the company itself And it's up to you... That should be a question for the president of television, not the Minister of Culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u367	Thank you. Senator Rybicki. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u368	Minister, you haven't answered my previous question completely. Is work in progress at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage on amending the Act on subscription fees or on other forms of public media funding? Second question. When you answered one of the senators' questions, you said so lightly. This is a text repeated by many politicians of Law and Justice The fact that such a small, approximately 13 percent share of subscription-payers among all those who have such an obligation is the result of a high-level policy on the stand. Would it be worthwhile for the Ministry of Culture or its agenda to carry out a survey, such an in-depth survey, on how much those who do not pay their subscription are inspired by this policy, and how much is the citizens' opposition to public media communication, which are treated simply as propaganda? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u369	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u370	As regards the first question, the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage has created 2 projects since the beginning of the term of office. At this point, it is up to the Sejm to decide what further work is to be done on this matter. As far as the second question is concerned, there is a strong correlation on the influence charts. You can see what the influences looked like until the moment of the appearance and then, immediately after the moment of the appearance. It seems to me that more or less everyone who had the basis for statistics is able to determine which point in time decided to change the trend in this area. Since I am also a statistical specialist, I can tell you that as we do research on whether people would like to have a very high quality road, most of them answer yes, but as we ask them if they would be willing to pay higher taxes on it, they usually answer no. Any public tribute, especially if it is difficult for you to enforce, will rather be avoided by citizens, not for ideological reasons, but for reasons that they may simply not pay it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u371	Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u372	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would like to ask about the issues of notification to the European Union. Did the Polish government come forward in connection with this project after such notification? When did he perform? If he didn't, why didn't he? And finally, that's the question. What will happen if it turns out that there will be a problem with the notification of the European Union and the European Union considers that it is illegal public aid? I would ask for a precise answer to these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u373	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u374	The bill was introduced by Members. At the time when the printing number appeared, the person obliged to make an opinion on the notification was Marshal of the Sejm. The Marshal of the Sejm requested such an opinion and received it on 21 January 2019 from the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection. He's kind of a middleman when it comes to notification issues. As I mentioned earlier, I quote the conclusion It seems that the above changes should not affect the assessment of the compatibility of the existing financing scheme for public broadcasters in Poland and should therefore not be subject to notification to the European Commission. I think that's the answer to that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u375	Thank you. Minister, now I want to ask you a question that simple. I want an answer for the Senate. We observe that a lot of important laws are introduced into the Seym and then in the Senate as parliamentary laws. I would therefore like to ask you a question: did the Ministry write this bill to Members? And if not, was it involved in the work on the creation of this law? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Paweł Lewandowski: Already?]] Yes. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u376	Mr. Marshal, I would like to say with all determination that the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage did not take part in the writing of this law. At no stage before it was filed in the Sejm, no consultation was requested on this law. We had information that such a bill would be made, which is why... And I think that's all the information we had. We're not the authors of this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u377	Thank you, Minister. And now Mr Rulewski... [[Senator.]] ...Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u378	What share are advertising revenues in companies' influences? How much advertising revenue is there, and are those pushy ads that are happening right now not in violation of the public interest? The public media isn't so much about business as you're suggesting. .. with positive balance sheets. Only the pursuit of the public interest, so information, so education, culture. Isn't the Union going to accuse our media of violating competition law, that one of the televisions that uses all these commercial activities like private television is additionally financed by issuing tax vouchers? And the question is, would Polsat or any other television, carrying out a public mission, because it's what he's doing... would he have gotten compensation from the Minister of Finance or the Minister of Culture for vouchers?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u379	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u380	Ladies and gentlemen! All countries or almost all countries of the European Union have a public support system for public media, i.e. public broadcasting companies, i.e. such companies as are, for example, ownership of the State's treasury, or e.g. Lands or other regions, or companies that are State-owned or State-owned. It is about institutions such as the France Presse Agency or German information agencies, which also sign in... These are the media that are somehow supported there. Some countries support e.g. press agencies with public money. We're not doing this right now. It is not strange, it is a standard, and therefore the European Union did not mind to maintain the system of public aid which already existed in Poland. Similarly, she did not mind maintaining such a system in other countries. In most countries I'm not sure in every country There is no such thing in the European Union... That is to say, in every country of the European Union or in almost every country there is a public support system for public media, and it is about the same objectives that are being pursued here, i.e. guarantees of high quality public programmes, which would rather not be on commercial antennas. You can see the difference. I do not know other television in Poland, which do e.g. TV theater. It should also be borne in mind that public television shows are not interrupted by advertising, i.e. profit is not maximised and advertising bands on public television are much shorter than on other commercial televisions. Thus, advertising is not regarded as the main source of income, but, as you can see, it brings more and more profits. As far as the specific question is concerned, what share of income or income of individual companies have in advertising income, it is difficult for me to answer that question at this point. As soon as they're balanced... As usual, at the meeting of the cultural committee there will be information about this and then it will be possible to discuss these issues in detail.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u381	Thank you. Mr. Senator Klich. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u382	Do you think that television, which a journalist with a beard gets into a crowd of people in front of the building protesting the lies contained in the news programs of this television, provoking that journalist with that beard For more radical behavior so that this television can then record and play it in an information program, with images of some people who participated in this undertaking, in this demonstration, and the result is dismissal from work. 2 people, including 1 person from the Polish Post Office in Gorzów Wielkopolski, where she worked for 25 years... Do you think that such television is worth PLN 1 billion 300 million? [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u383	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u384	Mr. Marshal, High Senate, I am trying to talk about facts, not opinions, and I have the impression that the subject matter of this bill is not those issues you are asking about. You ask for my opinion, and I present the facts, i.e. I answer questions about the bill that Members have written, because the senators have a wish to learn more about this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u385	You have the voice of Senator Rybicki. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u386	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I'd ask the facts. If I understood the Minister's earlier statement, it follows from her that the laws that were to amend the Act on subscription fees were proceded in the Seym and were, as I understand it, government projects. I would like to ask what is the fate of these laws, at what stage they are at, and how is this way of proceding government laws to process the law that we are dealing with today, and which has passed through the Sejm like a hurricane and through the Senate in a way that causes deep disappointment and reflection that it is breaking all possible legislative standards, which are the acquis of Polish parliamentarianism. I would like to ask you to compare these two paths, the one you suggested earlier, speaking of government projects in the Sejm, and the one we are dealing with today.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u387	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u388	In Poland, the law of the legislative initiative has e.g. The president, the government, the Sejm, the Senate. Everyone has their own procedure. It's hard for me to talk about the Seym procedure. If the Members, a group of Members who has a legislative initiative, has notified the draft and the Marshals of the Sejm and the Senate of this procedure, it is an autonomous decision of the Marshals of the Sejm and the Senate. It's not even right for me to address these issues, because I'm in a completely different place in this ladder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u389	Now you ask Senator Zdrojewska a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u390	I'd like to correct it first. I don't know, maybe I overheard it, but I think the Minister said that no press agency is getting subsidies from us. No, the Polish Press Agency is financed entirely by an individual grant... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Paweł Lewandowski: Not entirely.]] Please? But it's funded by an entity grant... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Paweł Lewandowski: It's true, I'm sorry. I mean...]] [[The senator will ask you a question. Wait a minute.]] Yes. It's in correction mode. Now, here's the question. I'd like to ask you again why you didn't send, because there was time, and you could see... Because the idea of doing this procedure, with the possible public aid, with the threat... We talked about this a year ago. Why didn't you ask the European Commission about this?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u391	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u392	It's not the government's domain. As for the previous type of aid that was being examined, there was no need to do so, our analysis showed that there was no need to do so. Regarding this issue, the Marshal asked the UOKiK for an opinion and the UOKiK also wrote that there is no need for notification. Notification is not mandatory. Nor does the notification mean that there will be no public aid. Notification is information to the European Commission on the manner and conditions of the allocation of aid. The practice shows that the European Union is not really interested in the way it collects funds or the source of funding for aid, but in the way it distributes and affects the market. Since the amount recorded here does not exceed the amount of public aid allowed, i.e. the 100% efficiency of the subscription system, this does not affect the market in any other way than in a foreseeable way. This concerns issues that are not likely to be subject to market competition, because missionary programmes in different TV stations are rather among themselves They don't compete. This does not in any way affect competition in the market, at least not in a significant way, not so important as to be of interest to the European Commission. This is how I understand the notification system and I have the impression that this is the opinion of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u393	The senator wants to continue, right? [[Yes.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u394	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I want to ask you a question because you're me, Minister, unfortunately you just left. I will read again what you have already read, President Fedorovich, the opinion of the vice-director of the legislative office of the Sejm. The bill may be considered as a public aid scheme to be notified to the European Commission under Article. 108. 3 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Maybe he doesn't have to. That's why I specifically asked you why you... Don't ask your UOKiK, which depends on you. I asked why you did not ask the European Commission. That's what I asked. And if we are already talking about the UOKiK opinion, you know very well, because today we quoted it at the meeting of the cultural committee that there are some doubts there. This is a generally positive opinion, but it contains some reservations, such that maybe it would be worth... [[Senator, please limit yourself to the question.]] That's the question, Mr. Marshal. I'm gonna ask them again. Why didn't you ask the European Commission whether it would be public aid or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u395	The question is clear. Minister, if you'd like to respond, please fill in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u396	We, as a government, have no obligation to ask about matters relating to the law under investigation by the Sejm. This is the duty of the Marshal of the Sejm. The Marshal of the Sejm may base his opinion on the opinion of the Vice-Director of the Sejm Analysis Office, and may base his opinion on the opinion of the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, which is a specialized agenda for the opinion of such matters. This opinion is very interesting to me, because I generally do public aid, that's what I do. At the Ministry of Culture, it's mostly what I do and frankly... That's how you put it, she said it was our office. I can honestly say that I almost always get critical opinions about the original projects on some kind of state aid that we want to introduce, for example. support for some theatres, etc., etc. It is not that the Office of Competition and Consumer Protection is happy to deliver positive opinions, so as I saw this opinion, which from my perspective is very unambiguous, is clearly positive, I was very clearly pleased. For us, it is an interpretation. As other offices are an interpretation on other issues, the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection is probably the highest authority for me when it comes to the issue of state aid. If they're writing you don't need to, then we don't need to run some extra procedure. The notification shall take three months. If anything changes after that, it'll take another three months. Such notification may take up to 2 years. And if that's not necessary, why run an extra process? It is clear from the opinion that there is no such need, and that reservations and opinions... Well, the domain of lawyers, and mostly lawyers work at the Office of Competition and Consumer Protection, is that they always leave some room for diwags and often write maybe. Whatever happens, he'll show you the practice. This kind of aid has already been applied once and there have been no reservations from the European Commission. The mechanism was very similar. The only difference is that we gave money directly before, and at this point the aid is in the form of bonds. There is no such risk, also in my view, that there is any problem here with notification or recognition of this as an prohibited type of public aid, as a new aid plan that would require notification.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u397	You're asking Senator Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u398	Thank you very much. Minister! I refer to the opinion of the National Radio and Television Council on the draft law that we are currently considering. I know you're well-known for your opinion. In this opinion, the National Radio and Television Council has various doubts about what may cause problems in the implementation of the objectives of the Act. I would like to ask you about the fourth point of this opinion. I quote: "The solutions contained in the project do not indicate when and exactly how much public radio and television units will receive the funds that they will be able to use to carry out the public service mission set out in the Radio and Television Act. What's next, I don't want to quote. And there's still a few sentences in there. But the conclusion of this... [[Mr. Senator, question. Question.]] The conclusion is that even in 2019 these measures cannot really affect television. I therefore have a question: what is the Minister's attitude towards this opinion and these comments of the National Radio and Television Council? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u399	Please, Minister, give us a brief answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u400	These are not comments in any way discrediting the project itself, because here is only the question of the purpose for which such a project should contain or not contain records. I do not know what the aim of the legislator drafting such legislation was, but from my perspective, it seems that the discretionary power of the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Culture, has been preserved in this regard to decide these matters. And from the point of view of the executive authority, that is basically a positive provision. It is in the interest of all of us that the money should reach the public media as soon as possible so that it can carry out an effective and high level public mission. So it could be a recipe, but it doesn't have to be. In my opinion, he doesn't fundamentally change anything. Such a provision could arise if there was a risk that the executive authority would postpone such action forever and there is no such risk in my view.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u401	Are there any more questions for the Minister? Mr. Senator Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u402	Yes. I think there's a certain... Well, maybe not as much a contradiction as... I have an interest in art. 1 point 4... [[Mr. Senator, comments are in the discussion. Now I'm asking you a question.]] No, I have a question. [[Oh, if you ask me, please.]] This is the question about this sound, i.e. Why is there a duty here... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Paweł Lewandowski: Sorry. Which article is it?]] Art. 1 point 4 point 2. It's the nominal value. This provision, as it were, provides instructions on how these measures are to be disseminated. And there's talk of proportionality. Well, it's a manual... What's that for? So far, so good. That's the question. The National Council disproportionately distributed this money, these and previous ones?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u403	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u404	It's an instructional recipe. In fact, it is a repetition of what is still apparent from the Act on... I'm sure the Members have decided to rewrite this provision so that it also has a communication aspect. Because it is important to remember that the law has not only normal functions, but also communication and explanation functions, i.e. The reader needs to be informed of what the regulation is all about and explain why such a purpose was included in the bill. I assume it's a recipe that could be, but it might not be, and it wouldn't, in my opinion, matter much. And to be honest, I'm a fan of information regulations or something, let's call it didaxals. Although I know that the Sejm's legislators don't like them very much. Because people don't read the whole system of law, only random laws, and when they don't know the whole system of law, they often don't understand the substance of the rule. So I think this point 2 allows us to better understand the substance of the recipe.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u405	Are there any more questions for the Minister? No questions. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Ryszka will be the first to speak in the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u406	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Since the first day of free Poland, i.e. for almost 30 years, we have been discussing that public media should have adequate and stable funding for their mission. The ideas, as we know, were without a few, but nothing better than the constant improvement of the downloadability of the subscription we have not been able to introduce. Therefore, regardless of who directs the TVP, the opposition will always start a fight about political dependence of public media on the rulers at a given time. And that's the undisputed truth. And that's where we'll always be different. This time, however, the issue is not about subsidies, because some people have said so about money for public television. So that we must make it clear to ourselves that this is neither a grant nor a loan, but a compensation that is intended to fill the gap created by the introduction of discounts and exemptions from subscription. Simply the Polish state, the Polish government, giving such reliefs and exemptions, is obliged to complete these deficiencies. It is similar in other exemption and relief schemes, e.g. in communication. Some people think that we in Poland fly planes and drive trains for free. It's not true, the Senate is paying for us with a lump sum. Maybe we could get a bigger allowance for that. This discussion has been very strongly attacked by public television mainly for information programmes, because they do not have much to do with the fulfilment of missions, but this is of course an important area which public media and every media must fulfil. However, it must be recalled and stressed that the public television information programmes are only a few percent of the time on the air, a few percent, and that, interestingly enough, the information programmes bring profit, because in these programs there are the most advertising and these programs are the least expensive. There are talking heads all the time, so it doesn't cost much. It is also good to stress that the amount of the current compensation of PLN 1 billion 260 million is more than 90% money intended to finance missions not only public television, but 17 regional public radio stations, regional centres of Polish Television and above all programmed, controlled, broadcast programs related to culture, education, programs for children and seniors, programs related to entertainment and very expensive sports events. The question here wasn't how much the transmission costs, let's say, some world sports championship. These are huge sums, counted in millions. You can complain to President Kurski that he is throwing himself into such deep water, but this is what millions of Poles are waiting for. We're just waiting for free sports TV. The amount is high, but is it too high? Here, various comparisons have been cited. Well, I don't want to say or remind you how many schools, kindergartens, tram lines would be built or that millions of meals would be spent for those in need. It is indeed a huge sum, but if it were to be allocated e.g. for salaries for teachers or health care, this is its size She'd be really pale. I will remind you that we spend more than 80 billion PLN on health care every year, and everyone will say that queues in hospitals and clinics are amazing. 80 billion zlotys! I would therefore stress once again that this compensation covers the concession and exemption from the subscription for 2 years and is necessary for the fulfilment of the public service mission. There have been similar compensations in previous years, by a kind God! It is true that, at the beginning of the term of office, Law and Justice announced a change in the subscription system. Well, it didn't work. It didn't work out because That's how I explain it to myself, 'cause citizens would consider it a new tax that PiS imposed. Because if the subscription fee was included in the electricity charge or the annual statement at the IRS, it would be taken away from us so that we were subject to a new tax. And now there's a few more numbers that have already gone down here. Where did this high sum come from? Well, according to CUS 96.4% households have a television set, but about half of Polish households did not register it. Among the registered majority are exempt from the fee, as the Minister said here. According to the National Radio and Television Council at the end of 2017, out of the 6 million, 700 000 registered subscribers were 3 million 600 000 made redundant, out of approximately 13 million 600 000 households in Poland. This means that within 50% households that registered receivers, 53.7% he's entitled to layoffs. In other words, real subscription fees are only paid by around 13% of the population and represent around 20% revenues for public television to perform the mission. Is it 20%? revenue, which is 700 million zlotys a year, can you complete a public television mission, so expected, in so many different programs? I don't think you can. Which is the most painful thing, unfortunately, doesn't mean that people don't pay their subscription. It was spoken here. Most people pay money for TV, but it's only money that goes into private owners' pockets with digital satellite platforms. It's hard for me to answer why public television doesn't have a satellite. Well, that's very important information, that's the question that didn't come up, maybe it'd be a separate topic. E.g. nc+ has 2 million 100 thousand subscribers, Polsat 4 million 600 000 subscribers. Together with Orange TV it is 6 million 700 thousand households, which pay to these institutions monthly in the month of 120.130 PLN, i.e. not very small amounts. In addition, nearly 5 million people use cable TV. All of them have at least basic TVP channels in these paid options. Why don't these platforms put 10 zlotys on a public television mission a month? [[Why should they give it back?]] Yeah, that'd be enough for all the public service costs. And that's what insults all the economic principles that TVP digital platforms are treating as advertising, for which TV is simply paying. What solution? In the Seym, such a conclusion was made. I will not remind you which Member has reported this That TVP should be privatised and that, in connection with the mission, tenders should be tendered for an educational, cultural, historical, publicist mission, etc., and the winner would be the one who had the best offer. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me, senators, please remain silent...]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] [[...because I can't hear very well.]] I wonder if it would be the cheapest offer or the most politically correct offer. It must not be forgotten that the Polish state did not create conditions of fair competition on the free market. Poles didn't have time to get rich to create big media companies. We remember that in the first years of transformation foreign companies were admitted to Poland, and so remained until today. It is hard to expect or demand that foreign media I don't mention them by name because they're different, they're objective and pluralistic. For example, let's not expect the Germans who have the biggest, so to speak... [[Time, Mr. Senator. Time's up.]] ...a piece of media cake, the largest stake in Polish media, defended us against slanders about the participation of Poles in the Holocaust. On the contrary, they will do their utmost to reduce the blame of the Germans, and at the most they will blame it on the so-called. Nazis. I will vote in favour of this law, but at the same time I believe that a good law on the financing of TVP should be adopted. On the one hand, the lack of power is evidence of the state's strange powerlessness, and on the other hand, it should not be so that every TVP head is dependent on Members and Senators and was afraid that he would have enough money to carry out a public mission. Unfortunately, in the present form, any compensation or tribute due by the opposition will be treated as supporting the media and putting the rulers at risk of criticism, as is currently the case, even though the compensation mechanism proposed by the Act is based on the issue of securities... [[Time, Mr. Senator.]] ...which will be influenced by the National Radio and Television Council. In conclusion, I would like to say that the public television mission must be supported. It is important to invest in television as part of national security. Foreign media are shooting at us with cannons, and we're fighting over money for a public media mission. Powerful media houses connected not only businessly but also worldlyly They wage a hybrid war with Christian values, and in the name of ill-understood democracy, we promote historical narratives or foreign world-view values in various programs. TVP has an extremely important mission to fulfill. If the media are the fourth power, and maybe even the first, then everything must be done to ensure that this great good of the nation serves Poland and Poles, dictates the best standards of life. And although many have much to accuse of television, it must support the realization of key values for Polish culture, the realization of our national rations and values. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u407	Thank you, Senator. You have a voice, Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u408	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! In fact, I have already included most of my comments in the questions I have asked the rapporteur or the Minister. Now I'm just going to develop these thoughts. First of all, it's a lot of money. The amount of 1 billion 300 million is really big money, and it's not just for the Krakus or the cognizant, it's for each of us. Secondly, this is money coming from the public pocket, and therefore from the pockets of our citizens, every citizen paying taxes, so they cannot be used without a clear purpose. Thirdly, this objective is not clearly defined in this law. Since it is said here that the deficiencies resulting from the exemption from subscription fees for the years 2018 to 2019 are met, the question that has been raised here from the hall is indeed appropriate: why, in these years, and not for the whole time since 2005, when such exemptions are in force, or at least in a few years from that period? So I do not view this justification as a true justification. I believe that this is about adding a penny to television, which is the favorite of the current power, because it guarantees that power to continue. This is television, which does not perform a public mission, because the mission of television and public radio is transmission, among others. of course, reliable and objective information and ensuring political and world-view pluralism in the media. In this respect, with regard to information and publicity programmes, and especially the third TVP programme, Poland's Television is not public television, it is government television. It was not by chance one of the first acts that we dealt with here after the elections won by the Law and Justice in December 2015 was a small amendment of the Act on Radio and Television, which unambiguously subjected the government to supervisory boards and television and radio boards, because whoever has the power to appoint and dismiss boards at the same time exercises control over them. Since the Treasury Minister was delegated under this law, he was empowered to appoint and revoke supervisory boards, contrary to the previous model, no one can say that the government has not taken control of public television and public radio. Thus, public television was taken from citizens and taken over by the government. Here I must refer to what Senator Ryszka was talking about when he mentioned that television, as well as other institutions, should be provided with financial support from the government. It is here, in this statement, that there is a difference in the approach between one side and the other of this room to what is public and what is government. Unlike government agencies, e.g. The police, the military, where the government is obliged to finance their needs, public television as long as it was public, did not require this from the government, because it was the National Radio and Television Council that supervised television, not the Minister responsible for State Treasury or later the National Media Council. Therefore, I do not think that public television as it is at the moment should be supported. And that is the second argument in favour of voting against this law. The first, once again, is an unclear justification, which probably conceals completely different intentions, because we do not know why in the years 2018 and 2019 any compensation for losses incurred in connection with the exemption from the subscription is due. And the other is that this TV isn't public, it's government. This television in its information programmes is also responsible for manipulation. Let us recall how actions against different backgrounds were accompanied, and in principle these actions preceded, attacks or attacks on persons, Prof. Rzepliński, Judge Stepnia, or on institutions, NGOs prior to the submission and adoption of the Act on the so-called. Institute of Freedom, before the trial with judges and the submission of 3 laws on courts, finally during the election campaign, not to mention our group, attacks on the Polish People's Party, which appeared to be the main enemy of the ruling party during the local government campaign. So this creation of an opponent's image on public television, government television, is an example of modern manipulation. I will say once again an open text: as the head of the information department appointed at the Krakow TV centre on the wave of taking over from the communists by the Solidarity Centre, I would not be able to accept any journalist who would assemble, prepare and then assemble any of the materials I mentioned just now, the material creating the image of the opponent, and sometimes creating the image of the enemy. A journalist like that wouldn't be in the news and publicity programs I've been overseeing for two years. And that BBC standard that we introduced everywhere at the time, because it's also on public radio and television. At that time, Radiokomitet was based on external, foreign, American experiences, and to a large extent also British standards. It was about guaranteeing pluralism and guaranteeing objectivity. It seems to me that with this pluralism and this objectivity, to be clear, government television has been on the market since 2016. And that's why it's just these measures. They're wrong for her. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Stanisław Karczewski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u409	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u410	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In our Chamber, but not only in Poland, there are many misunderstandings about the functioning of public television and radio. And I'm gonna start by saying that the name itself is flawed. The name comes from a time when people were more delighted with the technical being than with what is the true being. The true essence of these technical devices, television and radio, is the transmission of information. So the vocabulary... You shouldn't talk about TV, telephone and TV... This is where you reprimand me, Senator Ryszka, when he says television is the property of the minister, the state. Because that is true: the technical means are the property of the state. But already the product of these means, that is the transmission of information... The Constitution is different here. This already belongs, under the control of the National Radio and Television Council, to society. And it says what this product is supposed to be. So you could say, well, yeah... And let us add that the amount of the fees for the transmission of this information also belongs to the National Council of Radio and Television, and the appointment of boards and companies I'm still going to another institution. Total chaos. If the post office, which is also a public institution, acted and said: no, we will not send this letter to Rulewski, but to Senator Ryszka... Well, that kind of mail wouldn't exist, of course. And that's what this chaos is all about, is that it's in this chaos, in this muddy water, that some people fish for different fish. And the Minister here has shown this helplessness, contradiction. He says, "I feel like I own it." Even here, the chest was unscrewed when I noticed that he owns it. But he also says that when it comes to these compensations, he has nothing to say here, some other group of Members did. Well, I'm sorry, what kind of liability does the landlord have for making commitments to some of the greatest Members of the world? Come on, show me a partnership like this. There's no such company in the world. If this is a partnership... So that there is complete incompetence and irresponsibleness. Moreover, the owner does not carelessly watch over the state of his property. Because he notes after the first year, after the second, after many years, that there is a general deficit, that the product he offers, means information... I am already overlooking these political contexts, which Mr Klich has spoken well of here. The value of this product is falling, and its distribution is also decreasing. Well, which company that owns isn't interested in the fact that its product is getting worse and worse. I'm talking about information. And getting less and less value? What's more, who doesn't notice that competition is picking up what this product used to be famous for? And he was famous for it, folks, that... public television like none of them got a bonus at the start-up, that's what all this huge estate, all these centers, national infrastructure, which didn't have private media. And yet he loses in this rivalry. This is the result of poor government management of its property, as if the Balcerowicz principle was confirmed, that where state, there it was hopeless. And that's where politicians bury. And politicians are burying, having no interest in this company, only in terms of their political well-being. This is reflected in the bill that politicians have proposed. As far as the funding model is concerned, there is a misunderstanding in the nomenclature, even applied by my colleagues. The P.I.S. has made them even more pacified... What is a subscription in such a public concept, in such a normal one? The subscription isn't just... We're talking media here. It is something that the citizen, the customer, buys the right to receive in a continuous and durable manner some goods, e.g. delivery of newspapers, books, encyclopedias. In this case: information from the media. And the P.I.S. proposes that it be some kind of fee... And here Mr.Ryszka is afraid of the opposition, because if they introduced this fee, the opposition would use it. Well, for God's sake, who's in charge in this country, the opposition or the government? If the opposition, I'm telling you in advance, give us this 1 billion 300 million, and we'll clean it up! And you guys go out there on your own, get away from your responsibilities! I'm moving on to the most important case, the subscription fee bill I've ever dealt with. Well, please, my friends, you don't pick it up because you have fear, a fever, because all you can do is give away money earned by others. And if you have to download something, even if it is 22 zlotys, even if it is 7 zlotys per radio, you say: the taxpayer will rebel. Yes, that's the price of your credibility! If you're giving, you think you're good, but if you're gonna set up some kind of assignment, you're deserting from Poland. [[Applause]] And I oppose this as a citizen, because I believe that in Poland there can be a community around the media, around the information transmission, and we will host it. This is an expression of citizenship, which in Europe is being implemented by 23 countries, and it is being implemented in a successful and complete manner. Their media goes far beyond national or national boundaries. I'm against it. Don't solve it, don't degrade the common good. The subscription is also so that the citizen has the right, through this fee, to control what goods are offered to him. So it's not a tax. And it's not, as unfortunately said in our day, a racket. That's the law. Every citizen has the right to information about the weather, about his safety, about other information, and about entertainment. From my proposal, which I made a few years ago, it follows that if I accepted the commitment of the Polish community about which I was so concerned Here he says it would be enough to pay a copper... Yeah, I overreacted. 5 zł, 6.5 zł. And there would also be one channel without advertising and carrying out a public mission. Only that you need to want and have the courage, you need the slogan that PiS is saying, the slogan that we have to rule, turn into practice, and not just into propaganda shown on TVP1, TVP3. Television is, of course, a highly abstract product, non-touchable, building or destroying consciousness. That is why in many countries it is separate and, in some ways, dedicated to governance, through subscriptions and other institutions, to citizens, so that they can shape their image and how it should exist. Unfortunately, at the moment, it has indeed become a weapon in the political struggle. But that wouldn't be so scary. She divides society, she violates public interest, she causes wars. Slogans? I'm an example. I've been apologized twice. For what? [[Mr. Senator...]] For the fact that... [[I'm sorry, but...]] Ten minutes. [[It's over. The senator's speaking time is over.]] I was apologized because your editors, appointed by you, called publicly, in front of witnesses... [[Mr. Senator, no one appoints editors.]] They called me out of the country to put me in jail and even hang me. [[Mr. Senator... time's up, Mr. Senator.]] I was apologized, but these phrases were used again. And can such television be called public? Do I have $1 billion 300 million to raise my hand to keep calling you guys, maybe us? For self-esteem? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u411	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u412	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to say that I don't really feel like doing anything anymore. We have talked here many times about the situation in the Polish Television, about its failure to carry out the mission, about what this public television is like, and also about the fact that it is getting worse and worse judged by the viewers. That's what's causing the social protests. I don't know if you remember, but those demonstrations that were at the very beginning were demonstrations against the kind of television that came after they changed management and Mr. Kurski became president. And now I'm gonna say yes. Today, at the meeting of the Committee on Culture, which took place in an extraordinary manner, the director from the National Council of Radiophony and Television arrived, and the Deputy Minister from the Ministry of Culture came, but of course, as usual, there was no President of Kurski or anyone else from public television. And most of all, they should be explaining what is happening there. As far as the National Radio and Television Council is concerned, Mr. Kołodziejski is not here. I'm not surprised at all that this gentleman doesn't show up because I think he's breaking the constitution. As head of the National Radio and Television Council, Mr Kołodziejski should stand up for freedom of speech. [[And public interests.]] Yeah, and the public interest. Art. 214 of the Constitution says this: "Member of the National Radio and Television Council must not be a member of a political party, trade union or public activity." irreconcilable with the dignity of the function. The Constitution makes it very clear that a politician cannot be a member of the National Council. In the meantime, look at the side of the Mazowieckie Seymour. It says, "Mr. Kołodziejski." .PiS. That's what it says. So what are we talking about? In my opinion, this is simply a violation of the constitution. At the head of the National Council, which is to protect freedom, is a party officer. That's what it looks like. That's why I'm asking you what we're talking about here, since all the rules here are just broken, simple and just broken. And here's what I'm going to say. I'm going to refer to what was mentioned here, and it was about the mission, about the funding. The mission is financed, indeed, and here Minister Lewandowski referred to an article in the Radio and Television Act. This mission may be funded, but it doesn't have to. It's not like every time there's no money on TV, the state has a duty to deliver that money on a mission. Maybe I can explain it this way: in the Constitution it is guaranteed, I can no longer remember in which article, but it is guaranteed, e.g. the right to health protection. Every citizen has the right to health protection. Is this really happening? [[Art. 68.]] Art. 68. Thank you very much. Is this really happening? Of course not. And where is it? In the Constitution. Meanwhile, we are saying that the reason for the transfer of this money, this 1 billion 260 million, is the bill that speaks of the mission. Well, you will admit that the excuse itself is quite weak. And why is this excuse quite weak? And why shouldn't we additionally finance television? That's because she's been doing okay in this financial framework so far. Once it was better, once it was worse, there were times like this. We remember, these older parliamentarians, the senators remember the fact that television was in debt, there was a moment. You should've... But then somehow she came out of it as a partnership. There's never been anything like her getting money on a platter from the ruling party. That means spend as much as you want, and we'll pay you back the money. There's never been anything like it. One more thing. I have already said that this is a weak excuse for the use of this money, but I will also refer to the notification, especially twice I have asked the Minister for this notification. What is it? The point is that you don't have to apply for notification, just send a request to the European Commission and you get the answer whether it's public aid or not. It was easy to do. And here I will leave you with uncertainty. Why? The Ministry or the Marshal... Why didn't anybody do it? There was time for that. This was not done because such questions had already been addressed to the European Commission in some way and these answers said that, if we have such a situation, it could be considered as public aid. That's what I'm paying attention to. I'm just referring to it. I don't get it. You should have asked, just check, then we'd know. Of course I would trust the UOKiK, I'd trust the government if there weren't to be cases like the one with the Bialowieza Forest, with the rootpiece, right? After all, one of the ministers told us here that the section in the Białowieża Forest is legal and so on. We've been following all of this and it turns out, ladies and gentlemen, that we've been deceived. We were given an opinion, and then it turned out that we were all deceived, misled. Now, two more words about what this money's going for. They're obviously going to the election campaign, obviously going to finance one party. That's why they were granted at the moment and after that once in such a high amount. That's how it's gonna look. That money's gonna go for it. Why do I think so? Do I have any proof of that? Yes, the current public television program, information programs and how it all looks like, is proof that this is television representing one point of view that this is single-party television, that this is party television at all. And even here, we could find it in the protocols. In the course of the discussion, some senators said that it is normal that it is natural. Because all the other TVs are yours. All the media are ours, the opposition, I don't know, Polsat is ours, TVN is ours, all the televisions are ours. One will be ours, representing... I'm just reminding you, this one, the only one, can't be yours or ours. She should represent, she should enjoy freedom, and she should be pluralistically depicting the world and reality. And I don't think even the biggest fans of President Kurski will say that this is objective television, because we know very well that it isn't. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u413	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u414	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, the Law and Justice provide a significant sum for their television. At the moment there is a proposal to transfer 1 billion 260 million to finance this television as compensation for lost benefits due to the exemption from the subscription of part of the citizens for 2018 and 2019. I would like to point out that 2018 is over and you can call it compensation, but 2019 has only just begun. What compensation? Compensation is given for lost benefits, backwards rather than forwards. It's a strange legal structure. But of course, you'll be able to put it back again in the next two years, in the next five years, and in this way you'll be able to finance this TV that brings such losses, has such problems. If TV were to finance itself, it wouldn't have to be subsidised. In my view, this is a grant and it should be notified to the European Commission. The Minister referred to the opinion of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, in which it is said that it does not appear to be public aid. Did you notice this seems to be the case? Because I did. If the situation is clear, it is written that it is not public aid within the meaning of etc., etc., and the situation is clear. It's on the formal side. Well, we're in the European Union and the PiS government can't do whatever it wants, because public aid is disrupting the free market. That's the case. It's pretty bright. And now, ladies and gentlemen, a little bit about the content that this television broadcasts, I'm talking about the news channels. The first charge, and you can see it with the naked eye, is that there is no distinction between information and comments. And it's the other way around, because normally it should be information first, and then comment. An explanation: I'm more of a defender or less... But on this television, it actually applies. Just a comment. There's a comment. It is an indication of whether an order for a particular man, let's assume, for the President of the European Council. And it flies, but not information, just commentary: and that it is not a representative of Poland, because the Germans chose it, and that it is not known whether it is Polish at all... And that's the kind of comment that goes! There's a job for someone else, it's... And that's how it's shown whether it's a competitive political party or a specific human being. I also want to say, really just for a moment, about stripes, because that's also a comment. Just because we don't hear it, we just read these stripes, doesn't mean it doesn't get to those to whom it's directed. I'll remind you and replace some of those lines with stripes. And these stripes are much more poisonous than what you can hear. And this is not a situation that can be accepted. This public television is gonna have to be done. Of course, at the moment, once again, the grant creates a financing system that was not foreseen, i.e. the system of budgetary financing. That's how it is, and that's how it is. And this kind of funding is going to be more and more frequent. What's the message? I told you, it's for someone, it's for material. And that's what this TV and news channel looks like after a few hundred journalists were thrown out. I say this because we forgot that not only the management was expelled, they were changed, but several hundred journalists were also expelled. What was the situation? Well, ladies and gentlemen, there was an order for Paweł Adamowicz, that in 2018 TVP Info contained 877 information, TVP Gdańsk A total of over 1 thousand 770 of this type of information. And that number doesn't include repetitions. [[Who did the math? What kind of sources...]] What were the contents? I'll remind you what the contents were. President Gdansk's motion is about the ceremony at Westerplatte. You're a coward. You're a coward. You're a coward. The development mafia in Gdansk. Etc. It was that kind of transmission. Has anyone thought about it? These stripes are a little bit better than last year, but the information is still being given this way... I mean, it's not information. Sorry about the slip-up. 'Cause it's a comment that pretends to be information. This is the public television news mission. Therefore, I believe that additional measures to support this type of activity are not only unnecessary, but are harmful from a social point of view. As far as information is concerned, this television has completely compromised itself. Long live ours, not ours. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u415	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Rulewski. You're welcome. Four minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u416	In such a tone, I would say constructively, I would like to say what to do to answer the question of Senator Marshal Borusewicz: where do we go, how long will we go? Today, after 3 years of government of the PiS, there is no denying that there is no idea, no assumptions, and there is no law. And that means that this gap between payers or subscribers and needs will grow. Why? Because the number of contributors paying the subscription is falling. It's not true that it affects 800 million. As a rule, the proceeds from the subscription amount to 400 million, and the additional 400 results from the fact that tax offices rewind about the past or scare. And there's also the fact that they can't rewind anymore, because there's a 5-year limitation period, which means that these receipts are going to be smaller. Of course, TV and radio production costs are increasing and wages are rising, so this gap is going to increase. And here I am sorry, Mr. Marshall, High Izbo, sorry for you. Yes, you can take rescue measures, episodes, that's how I understand it. But you have to have this new bill in the back. And when will you give this new bill? Well, certainly not during the election campaign, because you're saying... Senator Ryszka is honest to the pain, like a true altar boy, and says: we are afraid. So this bill won't be for next year, but there will be another grant. And what are the errors in this bill that need to be changed? First error: includes a statement that the receiver is recorded instead of a statement that the receiver is registered. That means if someone doesn't register the receiver And there's no guarantee in the bill that he has to register It doesn't have to pay the subscription. Of course, you can go and see who people let in the apartment? Ba, there is a company that employs 30 people in Poczta Polska, and she is supposed to pursue it theoretically, only no one will let anyone like that in because he is not an officer. The next problem is the compensation. Please note that there is a bad sound here too. Compensation... Excuse me, the benefit or relief are subjective, are for the veteran, for the poor, for the pensioner, for the student, but the whole family environment benefits from it. Giving relief to the veteran, the veteran, we give it to the whole house. We've got 200,000 veterans, and there's almost 1 million reliefs. That's absurd, too. My thought is that everyone should participate in this because everyone in Poland receives public information. This will cause the fee to fall to the level of the copper. And in the end, although the Minister isn't here... Well, that's the argument you're using here, too, that once a great official, let's say, Prime Minister Tusk, urged us not to pay the subscription because he thought it was a racket. I have a proposal for you, for people of good change: let Mr Jarosław Kaczyński appeal to his society to pay. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u417	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. And now we're listening to the messages. One communiqué?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u418	One communiqué. The meeting of the Health Commission on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate to the Act amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care and certain other acts of "Senat printing No 1106 " will take place immediately after the announcement of a break in the Senate meeting in room 217. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u419	Thank you very much. I'm declaring a recess until 10:00 p.m. At 10:10 p.m., we will proceed to the votes. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 21 minutes 40 to 22 minutes 10]] I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators, let me remind you that the next Senate meeting is scheduled for 20, 21 and 22 March 2019. The order of business of this meeting will be provided to you by electronic means. We proceed with the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: changes in the membership of the Senate committees. I would like to remind you that the proposals of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on this matter are contained in prints 1116 and 1117. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Krzysztof Słoń, to present the proposals of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u420	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on the basis of Article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Rules of Procedure of the Senate shall present the following draft resolutions on amendments to the compositions of the Senate committees. Print No 1116:.§1. Senate of the Republic of Poland, pursuant to art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, dismisses Senator Przemysław Terminski from the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. §2. Senate of the Republic of Poland, pursuant to art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, elects Senator Przemysław Terminski to the Committee on Infrastructure. §3. The resolution shall enter into force on the date of its adoption. Print No 1117: §1. Senate of the Republic of Poland, pursuant to art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, dismisses Senator Jerzy Wczyła from the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. §2. Senate of the Republic of Poland, pursuant to art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, elects Senator Jerzy Więła to the Committee on National Defence. §3. The resolution shall enter into force on the date of its adoption. That concludes the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u421	Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you. Would any of your senators like to speak on this matter? No. Thank you. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on changes in the composition of the Senate committees. Print No 1116. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 75 votes against, 6 against, 4 abstentions. [[Voting No 5]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on changes in the membership of the Senate committees. We proceed to the second vote, to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on changes in the composition of the Senate committees. Print No 1117. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 76 votes against, 6 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 6]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on changes in the membership of the Senate committees. We are returning to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the law amending the Law amending the Law on excise duties and certain other laws, the Law on environmental protection, the Law on greenhouse gas emission management and other substances, the Law amending the Law on liquid biocomponents and biofuels and certain other laws and the Act on the promotion of electricity from efficient co-gerence... [[Voice from the room: Cogeneration.]] Cogeneration, cogeneration. Excuse me. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation has presented a draft resolution in which it proposes the adoption of a law without amendments; Senate print No 1096 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 62 votes against, 23 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 7]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on a law amending the Law amending the Law on excise duties and certain other laws, the Act on the protection of the environment, the Law on the system for managing greenhouse gas emissions and other substances, the Act amending the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels and certain other laws and the Act on the promotion of electricity from high-efficiency cogeneration. We return to the second agenda: the Law on the Łukasiewicz Research Network. The Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of a law without amendments. A minority of committees requests amendments to the Act and rejection of the Act; Senate printing No 1100 A. And we're going to the voice room. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. We proceed with the vote on the motion of the minority committee to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted against, 24 votes against, 61 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 8]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the motion of the committee to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 60 for, 24 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 9]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the Research Network of Łukasiewicz. We are returning to the examination of the third agenda: the Act on the Agency for Medical Research. A meeting of the Health Committee took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter; it is in print No 1101 Z. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the committee, Senator Waldemar Kraska, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u422	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Commission proposes that the law be adopted without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u423	Thank you very much. Does the applicant senator, Mr Leszek Czarnobaj, want to speak yet? [[No.]] Thank you. Then we proceed to the voice room. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the proposal of the Health Committee to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted against, 61 against, 22 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 10]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on the Agency for Medical Research. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the Principles for the Management of State Property and some other laws. The meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation was adjourned, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter; it is in print No 1094 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to submit a report to the committee. [[Sin, so in military mode...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u424	The Commission proposes to adopt a law without amendment. [[Great.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u425	Thank you, Senator. Does Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, as the applicant and Senator, want to speak again? [[No.]] No. Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the committee's motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted against, 61 against, 25 against. [[Voting No 11]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Law on the Rules for the Management of State Property and some other laws. We return to the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the law amending the telecoms law and certain other laws. The Infrastructure Commission presented a draft resolution requesting amendments to the Act; Senate printing No 1093 A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendment No 1 harmonises the way in which references to the Law are formulated. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 12]] Amendment 2 aims to extend the deadline for the submission of a request for frequency reservation for broadcasting on an analogue basis from 3 years to 4 years. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, according to which, they were all in favour. [[Voting No 13]] Amendment 3 aims to ensure that UKE's President cannot change or revoke the reservation of frequencies within the frequency range of 694 and 790 MHz, on the basis of the revised provisions of the Law on Telecommunications, in which digital terrestrial television is currently located. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? And I'm asking you to give me the results. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 14]] Amendment 4 makes it clear that the Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council should initiate the procedure for the modification of the concession as soon as the final decision to change the frequency reservation has been notified to him. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 15]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? And I'm asking you to give me the results. 83 Senators voted, 59 for, 24 against. [[Voting No 16]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the telecoms law and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item six of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Protection of the Environment. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on the Environment have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 1113 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 17]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the adoption of the Act amending the Environmental Protection Act. We return to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the excise duty refund Act contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 1112 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? And I'm asking you to give me the results. The votes were 86 senators, 85 votes for, one abstention. [[Voting No 18]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the amendment of the Act on the refund of excise duty contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on support for rural development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 to 2020 and certain other laws. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 1111 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 19]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the Promotion of Rural Development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 to 2020 and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Law on amending the IWT Act, the Law on the Organisation of the Fish Market and the Law on Maritime Fisheries. The Infrastructure Commission has presented a draft resolution requesting amendments to the Act; print No 1091 A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendment 1 is linguistic in nature. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, according to which, they were all in favour. [[Voting No 20]] Amendment 2 removes grammatical error from the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 21]] Amendment 3 indicates what kind of information is not available to IWT directors in the vessel database. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 83 for, 2 against. [[Voting No 22]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 4 ensures the provision's terminology consistency. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 84 for, 1 against. [[Voting No 23]] Amendment 5 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 24]] Amendment 6 is more specific. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 25]] Amendments 7 and 9 should be voted on together. They are intended to ensure consistency with the provisions of other laws. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 26]] Amendment 8 corrects language error. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 27]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 28]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Inland Navigation, the Law on the Organisation of the Fish Market and the Law on Maritime Fisheries. We return to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of Denmark on the separation of maritime areas in the Baltic Sea, signed in Brussels on 19 November 2018. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union have presented single-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate prints No 1103 A and 1103 B. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. The votes were 86 senators, 64 votes against, 17 against and 5 abstentions. [[Voting No 29]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of Denmark on the separation of maritime areas in the Baltic Sea, signed in Brussels on 19 November 2018. We return to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Act on ratification of Council Decision (EU, Euratom) 2018/994 of 13 July 2018 amending the Act concerning the election of members of the European Parliament in direct universal elections, annexed to Council Decision 96/787/ECSC, EEC, Euratom of 20 September 1976. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union have presented single-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate prints No 1104 A and 1104 B. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 30]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on ratification of Council Decision (EU, Euratom) 2018/994 of 13 July 2018 amending the Act concerning the election of members of the European Parliament in direct universal elections, annexed to Council Decision 96/787/ECSC, EEC, Euratom of 20 September 1976. We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. A meeting of the Health Committee took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter; it is in print No 1106 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Konstanty Radziwiłł, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u426	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Health Committee requests that the law be adopted without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u427	Does the senator applicant, Senator Bogdan Klich, want to speak yet? No. Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments, and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendment tabled. We proceed with the vote on the proposal of the Health Committee to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, 59 against, 5 against, 20 abstentions. [[Voting No 31]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. We are back to discussing item 13 of the agenda: the law on the preparation and implementation of strategic investments in the oil sector. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Infrastructure have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 1108 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 Senators voted against, 61 and 23 abstentions. [[Voting No 32]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on the preparation and implementation of strategic investments in the oil sector. We return to the review of item 14 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on subscription fees. The Committee on Culture and Media presented a report listing the requests made at the committee meeting; Senate printing No 1110 A. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. We proceed with the vote on the motion to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 25 votes against, 59 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 33]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we proceed to vote on the motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 59 votes against, 25 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 34]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on subscription fees. I would like to inform you that the agenda of the 70th Senate meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. The declaration may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. Senators' statements are not discussed. Would any of your senators like to speak? You're welcome, Senator Jan Filip Libicki. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u428	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My senator statement today is addressed to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and to the Minister of Finance, Mrs Teresa Czerwińska. A few days ago, Gazet Wyborcza informed that the Austrian entrepreneur Gerald Birgfellner was to transfer for knowledge the President of Jarosław Kaczyński and at the PiS headquarters PLN 50,000 to a member of the Board of the Foundation of the Silver Foundation R.S. in exchange for his consent on behalf of the foundation to launch the development project. That's how the businessman keeps it. So if this businessman is right that he transferred PLN 50,000 in an envelope to someone in Nowogrodzka, then it seems to me that there was a tax obligation because there was a donation. Of course, it can be exempt from this tax, because e.g. The Austrian gave this to the former Fr. R.S. as a donation to religious worship, but if so, he must show it. The first obstacle here is that Fr. S., it seems, does not perform any religious activity at the moment. The Austrian could also hand over the money to his wife, who would hand it over to his father, Mr. Tomaszewski, or his father-in-law, but also have to show it. In any other case, it appears that the tax office should apply for the relevant tax. Besides, as we know, for the current government, the tax administration works fast enough to come almost immediately. The question, then, is whether the relevant tax office has already acted in this case, or whether this tax office has already asked the Austrian who he gave the donation to so that he could apply for the tax. And who's that person? R., R., S., former priest, president of Jarosław Kaczyński? How about Mrs. Barbara Skrzypek? Because if the cousin's son-in-law left that money at the CEO's office, it's probably on the hand of that good person. There's more to the question than that. If the donation was cash And then there's gotta be a tax. I would also like to know who paid it, when and whether the time or whether a proper tax return was submitted within 14 days. I need urgent information about what the representatives of the National Tax Administration have done in this case. Thank you very much. [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u429	Well, thank you. You can't comment on it, so I'm not gonna comment on it. Thank you very much, no comment. Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]] Well, I don't know why, but... Senator Rybicki. Horrible. That's embarrassing. [[Voice from the courtroom: And yet, Mr. Marshal comments...]] It's not a comment, it's just words I'm saying besides a comment. That's embarrassing.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u430	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! In recent years, many of the government's actions towards institutions based in Pomerania, in the Tri-City... [[Talking in the O.R.]] So, Mr. Marshal, in recent months, in recent months many government activities directed towards public institutions, important enterprises, cultural institutions located in Pomerania, in particular in the Tricity, are perceived by the people of the Coast as repressive, incomprehensible to many backgrounds and even hostile. I'll tell you about a few. These include undoubtedly the acquisition of the World War II Museum in Gdansk or the loud issue of underfunding of the European Solidarity Centre. But he did not receive support from the international festival of Literary Sopot, co-financed for many years. Without support there will also be institutions such as the Institute of Urban Culture, the Baltic Culture Centre and the Provincial and Municipal Public Library in Gdansk, also financed in various activities by the state budget. However, the most negative are actions that have a direct impact on the Pomerania economy. It is a matter of taking over by the capital group Orlen from Płock Lotus, a company important for the Pomerania economy. The second is the absence of a decision by the government, the Minister of Infrastructure, despite the signing of the letter of intent in 2017 concerning the construction of the so-called. the red road in Gdynia, an extremely important road from the point of view of the development of the maritime economy or development plans, the construction of the port in Gdynia. This is also contrary to the government's declarations. We are proud that the maritime economy is finally getting up from its knees and that the Polish ports are reloading more than ever, and we have development plans as a state towards the port of Gdynia, and this is not followed by actions of a form of communication access to the port of Gdynia. That is why I am making a statement to the Prime Minister and to the Minister of Infrastructure. Namely the city of Gdynia and the Council of Gdynia Port Interests have been asking for years to implement the project of construction of the so-called. the red road, taking action together with other stakeholders in this respect. The red road, connecting the port with the Tricity ring road and thus the national road network, is a strategic investment for port development, maritime management and improving the quality of life of the inhabitants. I ask the Prime Minister and the Minister: at what stage are the work on the red road construction project, which has been done so far, is there a timetable for this work? And if so, what is it? Have the funds been secured in the state budget to finance this construction? Does the red road project have a priority for the Ministry? Are other investments planned in road infrastructure which relieves port and city? And if so, what is it? Finally, at what stage are the preparations for the investment announced by the Ministry of Infrastructure and the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways concerning the so-called. Via Maris, a national road connecting Gdynia and the Tricity ring road with Władysławów? I expect answers to these questions because they are important for the further development of Gdynia, the maritime economy and the whole of Pomerania, and consequently For the economy of the whole country. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u431	Thank you, Senator. Senator Antoni Szymanski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u432	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to make a statement on a very important institution, which is the European Solidarity Centre. For decades now, at the famous Checkpoint Charlie and the East Side Gallery, queues have been lined up for souvenir shops in the area. People buy T-shirts, postcards, cups with the symbol of the Berlin Wall, and even fragments of the wall itself packed in plastic bags. Unfortunately, unlike our western neighbours who promoted the fall of the Berlin Wall at dawn as a symbol of the end of communism, for years we have been unable to make a sufficiently recognizable brand. The German story overshadowed our message about August.80. However, if it had not been for the solidarity in Poland, the fall of the Berlin Wall in Germany would not have been possible. The European Solidarity Centre, which was created by far too late, was due to do this lesson. This process continues and it is difficult not to see real successes, even in the form of numerous visits to the centre by Polish and foreign tourists or the receipt by the European Solidarity Centre of the Museum Award of the Council of Europe. The promotion of the heritage of Solidarity in the world does not necessarily mean creating a one-sided story about Solidarity. Many times this legacy looks different in the eyes of WZZ-ów, otherwise members of KOR, ROPCiO, RMP, expert groups or anti-communist youth groups whose greatest activity occurred during the 1988 strike period. However, it is enough that we agree on some universal issues. "Solidarity" is a phenomenon on the scale of the world. Thanks to the solidarity revolution, communism in Poland fell without bloodshed. This solidarity inspired other nations under Soviet control to do the same. It was also thanks to the Solidarity of Berlin wall that was demolished. Therefore, regardless of our views, we can all be proud of the Solidarity. This simplistic, very general message about the heritage of "Solidarity," which should be promoted in Poland and in the world, does not have to exclude disputes, debates and, above all, further in-depth research. Also those concerning contract choices or the history of systemic transformation, which cannot be described with white and black crayon. The European Solidarity Centre, if it wants to be a credible institution, cannot promote the so-called. only the right historical truth and be a party to political dispute. The European Solidarity Centre should gather in its building people presenting different points of view from different backgrounds, and the discussion of the future of the centre should take place in a substantive and balanced manner in a situation where Poles, as well as the tradition of solidarity, are increasingly divided. All key parties in this tradition should be able to use the European Solidarity Centre on an equal footing. The winning road, which began in August 1980, inspired by the call of John Paul II of June 1979, occupied in the years to come by the enormous effort of millions of Poles, is a great heritage of our homeland, Europe and the world, an inheritance which cannot be manipulated and should not be used for ad hoc political games. It is our duty to our solidarity history to talk to each other about important things without giving each other bad intentions. Dialogue and an attempt to reach a compromise must not imply a complete denial of the arguments of the other parties and the absence of counter-proposals. "Solidarity" means both, and since the burden is borne together in the community. So never: one against the other said in June 1987 St. John Paul II, surrounded by a million people with banners with the word "Solidarity" in their hands. 30 years since the fall of communism in Poland, it is worth once again reaching for this sentence to re-read its meaning. This is a task for the parties to the dispute around the European Solidarity Centre, the parties from one solidarity trunk. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-02-26-senat-74-1.u433	Thank you very much, Senator. The list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the seventy-fourth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The 70th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland 9th term of office is closed. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[Meeting adjourned at 22 minutes 47]]
