ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u1	I'm reopening the session. Please take your seats, including by the senators of the secretaries. Ladies and gentlemen! I propose that the agenda be supplemented by items: the Act on the General Agricultural Census in 2020. and consider it as point forty-four, that is, point one; appeal by the chairman of the Health Committee And considering this point as point forty-five, that is, the second point; changes in the membership of Senate committees, Senate prints No 1279 and 1280 and considering it as the last point. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. We proceed to the examination of item 40 of the first agenda: information for the Polish Sejm and Senate on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period January - June 2019 (presidentship of Romania in the Council of the European Union). The text of the information is... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm asking you to silence the conversation, and I think it's best if we stop talking. Shh. ... The text of the information is contained in print No 1237. He addressed the information received to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union. The Commission examined the information at its meeting on 9 July 2019 and informed me thereof. I would like to welcome the Minister Konrad Szymański, who is present and already standing at the speaker of the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And I ask the Minister immediately to speak and present the information. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u2	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! In fact, very detailed, retail information was provided to you in a document already under consideration by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union of the Senate. In my speech, I would like to focus on those issues which were the most crucial from the point of view of the Polish state in the European Union. The Romanian Presidency was another six months when the Union had to deal with the problem of Britain leaving the European Union. At that time, despite the increase in the probability of an unconventional exit, the probability was not as high as it is today. In line with Polish expectations, the European Commission has presented a package of emergency legislation, legislation which has to reduce costs at least temporarily, limiting the chaos associated with the potentially unconventional exit of the UK from the European Union. This will mean, above all, a rapid disturbance in trade relations... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Shh. ... ... between the EU 27 and the United Kingdom by means of a rapid, day-to-day exit of the country from the customs union and from the common market. This has enormous consequences for all involved in trade with Great Britain, both in the case of goods and services. Poland has a growing positive trade balance with Great Britain, so from a Polish point of view, as with several other countries of the European Union, it is very important. As I said, as we expected, the European Commission prepared and then we adopted solutions which, at least in a temporary manner, until some other more systemic solutions are prepared, are designed to reduce costs and reduce the chaos associated with an unconventional brexite. This is primarily about access to the transport market, maintaining the validity of documents certifying the access of goods to the UK market, and mapping the protection of citizens' rights in British national law and in Member States' national law. This protection of citizens' rights should best be based on an international agreement, while in the absence of an international agreement we are ready In Poland, too, such legislative measures have been carried out to the same extent as under EU law, to safeguard the rights of citizens acquired by EU 27 Member States in the UK as well as by British citizens in the European Union. With regard to the regular elements of the Romanian Presidency's agenda, attention should be paid to the completion of the European Union's strategic agenda for 2019 and 2024. Poland was one of the more active countries when it comes to presenting national contributions to this document, which is supposed to decide on the policy of the European Union for the next five years. This beginning of the term of office is not only a personal issue, but also, and perhaps above all, a political one. Poland presented in the spirit of these opinions, which you often listened to from this point on my part on the occasion of the half-yearly reports on the work of the European Union, issues in particular in the area of the development of the common market, potential migration compromise, potential climate compromise, defence policy and the development of the digital market. Another important element of the Presidency's work was budgetary issues in terms of the multiannual financial framework. Here we still had a relatively small... In view of the Member States' initial divergences, this is fully justified and understandable, but account should be taken of the fact that progress in the work on the multiannual financial framework is very small, which may result in further delays in the adoption of the multiannual financial framework. The Romanian Presidency has sought to improve the shape of the negotiating scheme. The main task of the Presidency in this area is above all to prepare the main negotiations that will take place at European Council level through a unanimous decision, conclusions on the key elements of the budgetary agreement. This agreement in this case will be very difficult. I think that we are dealing with the most difficult historical budget negotiations in the European Union, due to growing development disparities, development interests of individual Member States and growing political constraints, especially in a group of countries which call themselves net contributors to the EU budget. These growing political constraints are linked to an increase in eurosceptic sentiment, which naturally translates into a much less budgeting capacity for the European Union, even when the same countries are decisive beneficiaries of the common market and European integration, which a large proportion of the public of these countries are willing to forget. In parallel, we have been working on a budgetary instrument for convergence and competitiveness for the euro area. This is one of the elements of a potential agreement. From a Polish point of view, Poland as a country that remains outside the euro area, in the nearest and foreseeable future nothing will change in this matter. It is important that this budgetary instrument be placed in the context of the multiannual financial framework so that non-euro area countries, through MFF decisions, have an impact on the degree of allocation, the size of that allocation and the functioning of that instrument. We would not want this instrument to deviate from the architecture of the general budget of the European Union. This would be detrimental to the financial interests of countries outside the euro area as well as institutional solutions. In short, we would potentially be facing a certain violation of the fiscal unity of the European Union's budget, which we oppose for political reasons. This risk is very low today. These Polish demands... no, not only Polish ones, because all non-euro area countries were properly implemented during the next Eurogroup meetings, but we ensure that nothing changes in this matter and that the euro area's budgetary instrument is placed in the context of the MFF, that it is a symmetrical instrument against similar instruments for non-euro area countries or, as a last resort, that it is financed in such a way that it does not affect the fiscal interests of non-euro area countries. Another point that I would like to draw your attention to is an important decision on the European Union's energy policy. At the end of the Romanian Presidency, it was possible to adopt a compromise version of the Gas Directive, which assumes that the national institutions of the Member States will be responsible for implementing EU law rules for cross-border and non-EU investments. This compromise is certainly not perfect. Poland was strongly in favour of the original version of the directive, as proposed by the European Commission, and at the same time at the Polish request at the time, but we considered that the compromise was worthy of support, because the alternative to this compromise was the conclusion of this legislative procedure and the absence of any legal provisions in this area. First of all, the directive provides for the appointment of an independent operator for all such infrastructure investments, although we know that in fact it is one key investment of this type, although it should not be excluded that in future we will be dealing with similar investments on different sections of the European Union's external borders. Another issue is the ability to control the tariffs that apply to this pipeline and the transparency of the costs of its implementation. These are very important elements from the point of view of enforcement of EU law standards for any investment, in particular Nord Stream II investments. Of course, the issue is not closed because a great deal will depend on how national institutions, including German institutions, will comply with EU commitments in this matter. It's subject to judicial review. Poland will not avoid possible judicial steps if it turns out that these institutions treat investments in a favorable way Nord Stream II. We did so in the case of the OPAL pipeline, winning the case at the Court of Justice of the European Union. That's what we're gonna do in case Nord Stream II, if there are indications and there is a need. A new European Commission will have a very important role to play in this matter, which by its very nature upholds the standards of EU law. I think that also the new President Leyen is fully aware that Poland will examine very carefully how the Commission is fulfilling its legal obligations. It's not a case anymore. Only political opinions or political attitudes are concerned with the Commission's legal obligations, as well as with the selected regulatory institutions of the Member States of the European Union. Another thing connected with energy issues in some way is to start working on the climate compromise on climate neutrality by 2050. Poland has opposed the adoption of the objective of climate neutrality by 2050, noting that such a decision can only be taken if a clear cost analysis is presented and it will be clearly indicated how the burden of this action will be spread between Member States, between economic sectors and finally between regions in the European Union. Poland will also not agree to this type of objective, to this type of commitment, to such a solution - with far-reaching consequences for future generations, because it is no longer a decision for a term or for a few years, it is a generational decision - if we do not have a clear vision of cost compensation for these sectors of the economy, those regions, in the end, those countries that are most vulnerable to the effects of adopting this type of policy. Such policies obviously have an extremely different impact on different sectors of the economy and on different parts of the European Union. This makes it impossible to conclude a climate compromise on this issue without such a clearly defined architecture to distinguish the burden and to identify compensation mechanisms. Nevertheless, Poland is interested in developing such a compromise. But we require our partners not only to put forward general political terms, which, of course, are beneficial in the conclusions that we were able to adopt in June this year at the very end of the Romanian Presidency. There are a lot of things that we are very pleased about, about justice, about climate change, about energy mix, about maintaining the competitiveness of the economy. These are all very accurate directional indications, but they need to turn into concrete ones. They must be much more accurate, especially from the point of view of Poland's interests in this matter. Another point that needs to be addressed is the legislation on the common market. It can be said that there is a very worrying dissonance here between the far-reaching declarations that we were happy to support at the European Council level or at the coalition level of willing countries; I mean a list of 17 prime ministers, which was one of the most far-reaching, courageous speeches on the common market. Poland is an active participant in this coalition. This gap is that, at the same time, at the same time, legislative work is a constant deadlock. Even in the case of medium-scale legislative initiatives, not groundbreaking ones, but aimed at implementing the rules that we have already agreed on, there is still an impasse. So it can certainly be said that there is a huge gap between the courageous political declarations and the reality of the European Union. This is a worrying gap because it means that we are not drawing the right consequences from the declarations we are preaching, and we in the European Union certainly have a non-accidental problem with growing protectionism, which does not allow Like I said. Even on a medium scale, progress in the construction of the common market. With regard to social issues, it is certainly worthwhile to set up a European Office for Social Affairs. Work. Poland pointed out in the work on this idea that the office must not interfere with the balance between the competences of the national states To which a significant part of labour market competence belongs: social security, labour protection standards - and the EU level. As a general rule, we agree that all these standards The protection of work, social protection, should be protected, should have a firm legal basis, but we note that the social models of the Member States differ significantly. And it's not random, and it's not undesirable either. Member States have the right to choose their social model, one that suits them, the way they can afford it, of course, as part of what we agreed to in the Treaties. The last two points I would like to draw attention to are migration and external issues, the interrelated elements. As regards migration, another strengthening of the mandate of the European Border and Coast Guard has been agreed, in particular as regards the growing role of former Frontex today, this name has changed to a more complex one. In the field of auxiliary missions for Member States which have problems with the protection of the external border. Poland strongly supports this direction. We believe that the protection of the external border in the context of migration is a key element, de facto a prerequisite for any other action. The mandate of the ESCiP has also been strengthened in terms of return policy and readmission policy. In this case too, we believe that the migration crisis has highlighted the weaknesses of the European system, which today is largely based on the institutional capacity of the Member States. And we see the sense that the European Union should be more involved in this process, with respect, of course, of the competences of the Member States and the EU. This does not change the key role of the Member States in this area, but the European Union, if it has such capabilities and today has growing capacities, also thanks to Poland, which has stabilised the very uncertain fate of the Frontex agency in Warsaw for a very long time... We see the point of the European Union doing more to help Member States that have such needs. It's not to replace them, it's to help them in this matter. Unfortunately, this does not change the political tension around the European asylum system. Despite the adoption of very favourable conclusions in March 2018. There is still very little legislative progress, as if the conclusions of the European Council were not enough to simply reject and move on to tangible, constructive action in all those areas that bring together Member States that are certainly covered by the European consensus. The last case is external. There was a European Union summit Western Balkans. Poland is increasingly involved in the Western Balkans. We are the Presidency of the Berlin Process, which is addressed to these Member States. We are invariably in favour of enlargement policy for those countries of the Western Balkans that are ready to do so. At the same time, we see the very serious politically unjustified resistance of some Member States. Interestingly, it is very far from the Western Balkans to pursue an ambitious, active enlargement policy in the region. This has its clear negative consequences for the European Union. First of all, in this part of the world, if there is no active attitude of the European Union, there will be other actors, in particular Russia and China. Of course, at the expense of European security, at the expense of potential European commercial interests. Poland takes the view that the European Union, while maintaining all the elements of conditionality, all the pre-requisites... This is not a purely political decision. This decision must be based on facts. Nevertheless, Poland considers that the Union should start accession negotiations with Macedonia as soon as possible, in particular with regard to the overcoming of the nickname impasse, and Albania. And it should also continue this process with countries that have already started it. These are the most important elements when it comes to Polish policy during the Romanian Presidency. Please accept the information we submitted to you a few weeks ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u3	Thank you very much, Minister. Would any of your senators like to ask you questions about this information? There are reports. Senator Jan Rulewski. You're welcome. Excuse me, I didn't take my card. I'm coming. Then why don't you take the card, and in the meantime, Senator Rybicki will ask a question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would like to ask you to respond to the political scenes and journalists that some observers put forward in 2018. Poland would not enter the European Union because it would not meet the basic Copenhagen criteria. These are political, economic and institutional criteria. And in terms of political criteria at least 2, that is, stable democratic institutions that implement the ideals of the rule of law, or respect for human rights and minority rights... How do you assess such thesis that were made public? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u5	Thank you very much. Although the question is not about information, Senator, it is absolutely not about information. Well, not applicable. You're welcome, Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u6	I already have a card. Thank you, and I apologize for not preparing. Minister, don't you think that you should change the method of communicating this information, especially in terms of showing different relationships, problems and conflicts, from the form you promote to the form of a specific person? In your report, you present the European Commission, the European Council, as such a negative demiurge that hinders. You are not saying that this European Council has its forms, that there are people there, groups of countries that are leading it. And those conclusions... that's the first question. That was inappropriate. And the other one... It wasn't a question. It was an opinion. Thank you very much. No. There was a question... It was an opinion. ...are you not going to change the methodology for communicating information to a more concrete one? Okay, here you go, second question, because the senator's time is running out. The second question, Minister: how much will the rule of law and immigration policy affect the budget, in concrete terms? Will the budget be burdened with the need to implement this policy?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u7	This question goes completely beyond the information provided. You're welcome... You're kidding, Mr. Marshal... ...Senator Klein. ...well, you're out of bounds. The Senate's Rules of Procedure... Mr. Senator Klein. You're welcome. You've become more of a party officer than... Mr. Senator, I've already taken your vote. Ask questions about information. You're welcome. I'm asking about the budget. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ask about the budget during the period... Mr. Senator, read the point at this point in the discussion, and you'll know what questions you can ask. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u8	Mr. Marshal, Minister, I would like to ask you how many times during this period... [[Talking in the O.R.]] You're welcome, gentlemen... Please, Mr. Senator Rulewski, do not disturb Senator Klein. Mr Marshal, Minister, I would like to ask how many times during this term of office did the President of our homeland or the Prime Minister meet with the President of the European Council outside the European Council? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u9	You're welcome, Minister. Of course, Minister, please respond very carefully, if you wish, also to those questions which go beyond the scope of information. That's kind of... It's hard to comment on a publicist, perhaps spectacular thesis... Don't comment, Senator Borowski, I haven't given you the floor. Well, Mr. Marshal, but you... But don't speak if you don't have it. You're welcome, Minister. But you're reacting very inappropriately. You're the one who's being unfair. So what's this procedure look like? Mr. Senator, please read the information and tell us if there's a speech on this subject. Take the House seriously. But the Minister himself spoke about the rule of law. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u10	In 2018, Poland meets the Copenhagen criteria, either in terms or otherwise, to the same extent as it met them in 2004. And that would actually be enough to answer the publicist, spectacular, but completely empty thesis that we would have any difficulty entering the European Union in 2018. Come on, let's go. Picantery adds the fact that a large part, a large group of criticized solutions... Yeah, let's go. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I understand that the answer does not please you enough that you do not want to hear it. They don't, yeah. But I understand he's gonna stay on the record. Picantery adds... [[Talking in the O.R.]] This is democracy. Thank you very much. [[Come with us.]] ...gives the fact that a significant part... Weak. Goodbye. We're permanently saying goodbye! Forever goodbye! Thank you. Good luck, Mr. Marshal. We have positions... You don't have the floor, so please don't take the floor. Thank you very much. There you go. The fact that a group of solutions for the reform of justice in Poland, which today is freely criticised by the European Commission, was in force at the time of accession and at the time of Poland's entry into the European Union adds to all this. This is strong enough evidence that only opinions have changed, but nothing has changed in terms of legal status. I am referring, for example, to the arrangements for the appointment and dismissal of the Presidents of the General Courts. This solution in the law on common courts adopted in 2001 was even praised by the European Commission because it gave, in the opinion of the European Commission at that time, grounds for believing that justice would be more effective. Because the inefficiencies of justice were a significant problem in the Polish accession process to the European Union. The General Courts Act, which provides for, among other things, today's criticism of the method of designating and dismissing the presidents of the general courts was considered right and proper. It shows how political, at least in places, there is this dispute. As for the methodology, I think Senator Rulewski had some old notes, because in today's speech I remember what I said 15 minutes ago. I have only expressed and only positive opinions on the European Council and its various decisions whether it is migration, whether it is the euro area budgetary instrument, and only positive opinions on the European Commission, in particular in the context of the proposed solutions for the gas directive. So I do not know what it would be like to present both institutions as negative demiurges of the EU process, integration. It has a loose connection to what I said at the beginning. But it would be good to stick to what I want to say, not what I'm suspected of in this case. So I think that there is no reason to change form, because, in particular, the European Council, like the European Commission, acts as an institution. Although it is a college composed of 28 Commissioners, it acts as an institution, not as a specific one, by the name of the Commissioners mentioned. Both institutions are simply collegial. In addition, the European Council of the European Commission to a large extent also It does not wish that internal deliberations should be discussed in the public domain. For this reason, the European Council is the body that sits behind closed doors. So it would be exotic if I were to bring you any guesses here, because only such status could have opinions, who specifically wanted, said, done or did not do. The issue of migration will certainly have budgetary implications. As I understand it, there is no debate in Poland as to whether migration is a serious problem of the Union or not. I think we can agree that migration, migratory pressure, an uncontrolled migration wave are serious problems affecting the stability of the European Union. This is the reason why Poland in principle agrees that the European Union should do more on migration. There are only two conditions. Firstly, she should do what we all agree she should do, not what at least some Member States disagree on. Secondly, it should finance this in such a way that it does not cause disproportionate costs on the part of the policies on which they are based, their own validity, remain up-to-date. For this reason, a budget compromise cannot be formed so simply. I think that if only these two conditions are fulfilled, we can agree that the European Union should do more on migration. As regards the frequency of meetings with the President of the European Council, Donald Tusk, to be honest, I do not conduct such statistics and I do not know the statistics of other Member States on this issue. The intensity of meetings of the European Council .. also extraordinary meetings. It is quite enough, I believe, to maintain a reasonable level of contact with President Tusk. Nor do I see any significant political role for which such extraordinary meetings could be attributed. If such a reason arises, Parliament will certainly undertake this task.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u11	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, while discussing the previous period, I asked you about the directive or the position of the European Parliament, perhaps from November 2018, concerning the link between the use of EU funds and the so-called evaluation. The rule of law There was a discussion about this at the time. In the past period, the one we are talking about at the moment, has anything further been done in this respect in a formal and legal sense? Has any provision been made, or directions indicated? What is the assessment of the Polish government in this regard? Thank you. Of course, I think that this is a typical ideological political action... Question. Okay, thank you very much. ...not of substance.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u13	Senator Wach. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u14	Thank you kindly. Minister, I would like you to respond to the following problem, which you raised in your speech. Poland takes a very firm position on climate neutrality, possible achievement of climate neutrality requirements by 2020 and 2050. At the same time, our fundamental problem is coming up in the coming years. It's been visible this year. There is both drought and various violent climatic phenomena. We will probably need European Union co-financing and assistance in this area. In my opinion, there is a clear contradiction here. I understand our resistance to neutrality, because we only do. this year we give back investments from modern coal power plants, which have to work for decades. How do you as a politician and how does Poland as a country intend to reconcile these rather contradictory matters? We will need immense help because we are terribly exposed to drought and climate problems, and at the same time we are in opposition, at least verbal, to accept this neutrality.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u15	Thank you. Senator Żaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u16	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I was particularly interested in this part of your speech, which concerns the process, the way the countries of the Western Balkans enter the European Union. We don't have to add that there are groups of countries. In particular, Central and Eastern Europe, including Poland in particular It is the way these countries enter the European Union that is strongly interested in this process. And there are countries where this is not in the area of deep interest, which is also due to historical events. You have rightly said that Russia is one of the opponents of this process. As for China, let's leave it on the side, because here are mostly economic reasons. However, Russia has its reasons not only for economic, but also geopolitical, historical, etc. In view of the fact that Poland is deeply interested in the idea of the Międzymorza and, consequently, the accession of these countries to the European Union, has Poland managed to reach a certain proposal, but precisely through Poland, such a path of these countries, to make it real from the point of view of the ultimate goal? In other words: is Poland seen here as the director of this process? I ask this because we are particularly interested here and we must convince the other partners of the European Union to do so.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u17	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u18	As far as the link between the budget and the rule of law is concerned, we still have the same European Commission proposal on the table, which raises doubts not only Poland, but also a few other Member States. They are not convinced that the fiscal interests of the European Union and therefore of European taxpayers should not be protected. In no case does Poland have very good results in terms of protecting the fiscal interests of the Union in this context, including in the context of the spending of EU money. We don't want to give it up. Surely, the key element of the credibility of the budgetary process is that this money is fully controlled and not subject to any fraud. It should always be pointed out that we must not move towards countries that are interested in loosening control standards in relation to public money, in this case the EU. Any public money should be protected and controlled in order to counter the embezzlements that are present in the EU money spending system in some other Member States. So, in principle, this concern is the concern of some Member States and we share it completely. The problem of this regulation is that the legal basis which relates to the fiscal interests of the European Union has clearly been aligned with the political element which refers to compliance with the rule of law without defining a closed catalogue of criteria, and this results in very high unpredictability of these standards. It is not known how they are supposed to work in practice. In this sense, the European Commission has written this project on its own, because it has given itself, above all, enormous powers to predict what, in the case at hand, is a necessary requirement and what is not. It opens a giant gate. Not the door, but the gate. For the application of double standards where standards should prevail. This is somewhat contrary to the rule of law, because one element of the rule of law is the predictability of the law. This regulation in itself builds on the enormous unpredictability of the law and, in this sense, weakens the rule of law in the European Union. Polish arguments in this case relating not only to the criteria but also to what part of the budget is to be affected by this regulation They are shared by the Council's legal services. This shows that the Polish arguments in this case are not political, they are not an expression of prejudice. Our legal arguments are fully supported by the Council's legal services. We raise these arguments, but for now this element is left, I believe, to the very final of the budget negotiations, so as to somehow come out of it. In this form, this Regulation could in principle be the subject of a judicial dispute before the Court of Justice of the European Union. Let us hope that, at the end, we will receive a legislative act that will enjoy the support of all Member States and will eliminate the suspicion that it is about freedom, that it is about creating an instrument that can be used whenever you want, on any basis. As regards climate neutrality by 2050 and support elements for the most vulnerable regions or sectors of the economy I don't see any contradiction here. On the contrary, we have made it clear that we do not question the European Union's intention to do so, but before we agree, we must have a clear map of burden sharing and compensation mechanisms. If we had accepted this goal today, i.e. in June 2019, without a guarantee in this case, we could then possibly ask for it. I am not sure that this request would be sufficiently suggestive for countries that would have to decide to dispose of some budgetary values either by volumes of CO2 allowances or by any other compensatory instrument. This matter was simply made quite clear by Prime Minister Morawiecki, who said that we are very much interested in an agreement on this matter, but we must have clear guarantees that selected sectors of the economy, selected regions and selected Member States which are most vulnerable ..and Poland belongs to them. They will have a guarantee of compensation mechanisms and that these burdens will be distributed fairly and fairly. Hence the concept of fair transformation, which has been rooted in the EU language for the last year, I think. I think that this concept has the support of the majority in the European Parliament and has been taken up by the President-in-Office of the European Commission and has already become part of this discourse. This is also included in the conclusions. These conclusions are not only Polish, Central European opposition to 2050, but also positive elements, among others. the fair nature of climate change. As far as the Western Balkans are concerned, Russian interests are certainly geostrategic in nature and Chinese interests are commercial in nature, but both countries are interested in halting the expansion process. The process of expanding from a geostrategic point of view has some consequences, which is quite obvious. One of them is a stronger relationship between individual countries ready to join the Western world, to say the least. In trade policy, this has definitive consequences. This means that trade policy is becoming an integrated policy. This means that this part of the world is spoken by the Union, not by individual governments, which are necessarily weaker from the point of view of trade negotiations with a giant like China. This also means introducing a regulatory regime in areas such as public procurement, which will not allow any decision to be made on this issue, which is a bad news for each third country, because it limits, if it does not eliminate, the possibility of using political pressure elements in relation to specific commercial interests. That doesn't completely eliminate this problem. An example is Chinese purchases during the eurozone crisis in the south, e.g. Greece. This does not eliminate this problem, but certainly introduces transparent rules of the game, which are negatively perceived by external actors. Poland is actively involved in all this in two ways. First of all, as the Presidency of the Berlin Process. We were happy to take over the UK Presidency. A recent summit was held in Poznań, which served to explain the advantages of enlargement, that it is in the interests of the European Union, and not part of some kind of security tribute or, all the more so, financial tribute, that in the long term it simply pays off the Union. We have also succeeded in reaching the compromise text of the enlargement conclusions at the recent General Affairs Council. It was a very difficult process, because just as a group of countries came forward a year ago, they wanted to fail to accept these conclusions. It is paradoxical to call it that very often these are countries that are very eager to invoke their European conscience and are very willing to account for the europeanity of other countries, including Poland. At the same time, they are countries that are active in helping to weaken the European Union, e.g. in the Western Balkans. Because nobody questioned the idea that an active enlargement policy is one of the few strategic tools for the European Union's external impact. It's an elementary, it's a pretty elementary observation. We have more paradoxes like this in the Union, but this one is one of the brightest. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u19	The next question you're asking is Senator Tight. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u20	Minister, in June, or perhaps on 17 June, the deadline for submitting requests for the extension of the TEN-T network expired. I know that the Polish government was going to file a motion for Via Carpatia. It's about 30 billion zlotys. This is not going to be the happiest for Poland if we do not build a network of inland roads. After signing the AGN convention, we can aspire for money to develop the inland network. This is the cost of PLN 100 billion, a very long-term venture. My question is whether Poland has applied to include Polish inland waterways in the TEN-T network. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u21	Your second question is Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u22	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have a request to give me a written reply to my question on the number of meetings between the highest Polish politicians and the President of the European Council during the Romanian Presidency, because you said that you were not aware of how many of these meetings were. Besides, I do. That's my opinion. The meeting of the highest Polish politicians with the President of the European Council is, however, an important element of Polish foreign policy and should always be exposed, shown. This is just a small comment on my request for a written reply. Here's my question. During the Romanian Presidency, further countries reported their wish to join the euro area. During this period, did Poland undertake any work, discussions, discussions in the European Union concerning Poland's accession to the euro area? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u23	Your third question is Senator Elephant.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u24	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister! My first question concerns the subject already raised here, namely the aspirations of the states to join the European Union. Has there been any progress in Ukraine towards the European Union over the last six months? And whether Poland at that time was recognized... Have our strategic interests and our approach to uniting the European Union with Ukraine been recognised? The second question concerns cybersecurity and terrorism, two very important aspects, especially recently, of the functioning of the European Community. This is particularly about cybersecurity. Has work been done on developing a common policy in this area, securing financial systems, energy systems of the Member States of the European Union, work related to this threat in the cybersphere? The third question is whether Romania was our ally in the approach to the allocation system, which still seems to be a burden on European countries, although the recent signals after the elections to the European Parliament indicate that many countries are taking our approach both to the refugee allocation system and to the aid system that Europe should provide to countries affected by migration crises and wars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u25	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u26	Thank you. As far as the TEN-T network is concerned, such proposals can only cover inland waterways which are important for trans-European networks. Not every inland road can be covered by this. The Ministry of Infrastructure has detailed information on this matter. I'll be happy to present them in writing. However, this one reservation must certainly be taken into account, i.e. that only those elements which serve the development of trans-European roads may be included in these proposals. That is the point of this instrument and of financing. As far as meetings with President Tusk are concerned, I must admit that I do not understand this interest. I don't know... That's exactly what I'm asking for in every piece of information, because you don't understand... Wait, I'm just gonna finish one paragraph and you can ask me a third time about this very serious problem. I'm just gonna finish one paragraph. About your second question. To be honest, I do not know of an EU country that would hold special minutes with the President of the European Council, because the President of the European Council is the President of all these countries, so all these Heads of Government are in constant contact with the President during the session of the European Council. The President sometimes holds meetings recorded in minutes with representatives of third countries. There's a reason for that. If a head of a third-country government comes up with an idea to meet with the President of the European Council, such meetings are held. I think that it would be quite exotic for EU countries to take into account the intensity of European Council meetings as well. Let us also remember that when the meeting of the European Council begins, the Council's conclusions and political direction are governed by the Heads of Government, not the President. The President therefore ceases to be an entity which is relevant to the various Heads of Government. So, to be honest, I do not recall any of the heads of government of the EU 28 holding a protocol meeting with President Tusk. I'm sure it's... I only ask about Poland, not other countries. Do you expect Poland to behave in a special way... No. ...and ostentatiously portrayed President Tusk as an external element? Minister, my question is clear... Mr. Senator, next round. I don't know... I keep asking... I expect a simple answer to a simple question. I don't even expect an answer right now, Minister... Let me finish my answers. It's just a question of how many times, and nothing more. Senator, I didn't give you the floor. I want to explain to you that... because maybe we can avoid these questions next time, because you come back to this one question quite often. Now I remember. I would like to draw attention to the fact that there is no practice for the Heads of Government of the European Union to meet in a protocol manner and to be celebrated with the President of one of the EU institutions. This contact is a constant contact, because the President is here to achieve the objectives of the Member States... What, he's sitting behind a desk waiting? ...including Poland. So it seems absurd to me to have some special meetings, but maybe it's an isolated opinion. If we were a third country outside of the Union, it would probably make more sense if we ourselves felt that President Tusk was an important player for some of our interests towards the Union. But it hasn't been for 15 years, so I don't really see the point of this exercise. Maybe we will. As far as the euro area is concerned, not so many other countries have applied to join the euro area as one country; Croatia has requested to join ERM II. That's a factographic clarification. None of the observations we make in Poland about the changes in the euro area in relation to the post-crisis situation in the euro area yet lead us to the conclusion that we should do the same. As far as Ukraine is concerned, in addition to the regular process primarily related to the Eastern Partnership, which is neither the path to membership nor something to replace membership, we have had much more serious problems at that time. First of all, there was another crisis in the Kerch Strait, the imprisonment of sailors. This led the European Council to take a position It's very basic. In this regard, not only is international law being violated in this particular case, but also the illegal occupation of Crimea and the illegal international passporting in Donbasa. I think that was the most important element in this area. With regard to cybersecurity, the European Union has adopted and implemented an early warning system on disinformation issues that are now closely linked to the cybersecurity of the Member States of the European Union. This happened before the European elections, actually under the Romanian Presidency. This system is to be developed and continued, as it has brought some conclusions showing that the problem actually exists and is not linked to the chaotic, random activity generated by the various possibilities created by the Internet, but is only planned and hostile towards the Member States of the European Union, as well as the European Union itself. As far as relocation issues are concerned, Romania is certainly one of those countries that favour the Polish position. Perhaps it is not as loud as Poland in this matter for 3 years, but certainly Romania is in this respect a country which understands the Polish position on this issue. In general, since this unfortunate beginning in 2015, when relocation decisions were taken, a great deal has changed in the Union in terms of language in terms of how this problem is perceived. But we're waiting for one thing. To close the legislative issue. It is completely incomprehensible how long it is possible to stick to legislative solutions that have long been rejected. How much time and energy we have wasted to face, in total, on the agenda of our real migration challenges, the detail of the unfortunate idea of technocratic management of migration and asylum in the European Union. But that is the reality of European Union policy. I think it's also worth thinking about, because it shows how much the EU process is immune to the political signal. This political signal from a growing group of countries is very clear. The language has long changed in all capitals, and we have adopted conclusions that clearly explain how to design future asylum policy. However, the legislative point is that the Ministers of Home Affairs and Justice still face the same paperwork, which supposedly suggests that the old relocation system is still the subject of our deliberations, and this is strongly detached from the political reality of the Member States. This is not the only example, but this is one of the more spectacular examples of how the Union can be immune to the transmission of a political signal, even as strong as in this particular case.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u27	Senator Wcisla wanted to clarify his question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u28	Minister, I understand that my question will be answered in writing. However, I just want to clarify. I am talking about an international network of inland roads, a European network of 24,000 km. 2 thousand 100 km of neglected roads are in Poland. And they're not included in this network because we didn't sign the AGN before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u29	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u30	Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, I will give you close written information on this matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u31	You're asking Senator Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would now like to ask you a question about my previous question. Namely, it could be seen in the European Union that some of the actions of the European Commission in its current composition were being tried outside the Treaty. All sorts of disputes were born here. In your view, is this a tendency to extend the power of the European Commission not rooted in treaties, agreements and procedures, EU legislation is expanding or not? I'm asking you this in the context of the fact that more and more cases The European Commission was losing to the Court of Justice of the European Union, not only in relation to the taxation of large-scale shops. There's been a dozen lost cases in the last few months, as I recall. This would allow us to conclude that this trend has somehow been stopped. But I don't know if that's a good grade. I would like to ask the Minister here to present an assessment of the Polish government, how the Polish government considers this to be dangerous for the future of the European Union, i.e. extending beyond the scope which is formally defined by the law, the power of the European Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u33	You're asking Senator Oremski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u34	Minister, a little bit about dangerous resistance to political signals as well. During both the Bulgarian and Romanian Presidency, the issue of subsidiarity, over-interpretation by the European Commission and thus the capture of the smaller countries or the countries of New Europe was very clear. In a nutshell, The example of this was that the de facto yellow card was not functioning. There was an attempt to undertake a reform so as not to at least try to deceive national parliaments by adopting certain directives just before holidays or holidays. Nevertheless, I have the impression that Mr Frans Timmermans tried and played a group of COSAC representatives so that nothing would change. So that it is a de facto fight to restore politicality to European directives, i.e. the possibility of commenting on their bad effects on some countries, not just writing that there are subsidiarity issues, and then the same committee, which does so, interprets whether this is in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, etc. How much is this issue on the table, and how much can it be done here? That's the first question. Second, short question: are the effects of the agreement between the European Union and Mercosur on Polish agriculture analysed?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u35	You will ask the question of Marshal Borusewicz. I have a few questions, Mr. Marshal. No more than 3 and the others in the next order.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u36	Good. Thank you. Minister, I can call it that when it comes to the question of contact with the President of the European Council. However, I would like to join Senator Kleina's question and ask for information on how many contacts were made on the Polish side with the President. This question, mine and Senator Kleina, has a clear context. Well, there have been allegations from the PiS that the President of the European Council does not represent the interests of Poland... Again? It's not up to the meeting, it's up to the Polish heart. ...or he doesn't support these businesses. Therefore, in the context of your speech, I repeat the question and please answer me in writing: how many such direct contacts were there? What's going on here? That's funny. If you're saying there wasn't any... If there have been 3 meetings, please write and if there hasn't been any, then write. This is the first question I ask you to answer in writing. The second question concerns the Romanian Presidency in the context of Ukraine. Is it because we are interested in enlargement of the European Union and leaving the door open for Ukraine, not just for the Western Balkans... Was Romania active on this issue or not? I ask in the context of certain Ukrainian-Romanian problems, which from a formal point of view have probably been resolved. The question is whether Romania is the country that, like us, supports the idea of an open door for Ukraine. And one last question, a question to you in the context of what you said to Marshal Karczewski, intervention, etc., limiting the possibility for senators to ask questions. The justification was that the questions concerned the Article procedure. 7 of the Treaty on European Union. Is there a passage in your report on this subject, and can you extend it? He's very small, but he's in the report. Was there also a question of Romania's attitude towards linking the rule of law in the Member States, including Poland, to budgetary matters? What was the attitude towards such a proposal from the Romanian Presidency?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u37	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u38	As regards institutional competition and the tendency for the European Commission to expand its competences, I would like to stress that the Commission, like any other institution, tends to interpret its institutional position in its favour. This is not a fundamental charge, it happens to everyone, in every Member State we sometimes have this type of institutional friction, who should have more influence. Parliament has recently tried to significantly expand its competences by strongly defending the idea of submitting candidates for President of the European Commission in a way that would significantly reduce the competences of the European Council. So that I think that this is the everyday life of every institutional game, that everyone is trying to have a greater impact. He's doing it in good faith or bad faith, it's already a matter of assessment, you can have different grades in this case, but it's a natural matter, and I wouldn't consider it a very special situation. Moreover, the Treaties often encourage this kind of action by their unsightly outline Intentionally or unintentionally, it is also for the assessment of competence divisions and unscathed institutional solutions. There are quite a number of examples, such as an article, one article that determines in two different points how environmental and climate decisions are adopted and how energy policy decisions are taken. In the latter area, we have a clear statement that the decisions of the European Union cannot affect the energy mix of the Member States. At the time, it was one of the hottest elements of the negotiations on the Lisbon Treaty. The same article contains provisions that are a sufficient legal basis for the adoption of legislation in the field of environmental or climate protection, but which have a direct effect on the energy mix of Member States. This is a classic example of a situation where, let's say, the treaty doesn't help to decide in which way decisions should be taken. Then, of course, the institutions concerned reach for solutions that are convenient for them. I think that such examples are also in the Member States. The case of the yellow card is somewhat related to this, because the solutions adopted in this case under the very noble slogans of the protection of the principle of subsidiarity, which is a very theoretical principle, very different interpretation also in doctrine... A system has been set up in which the Commission is a judge on its own. This is a very timely remark to the various discussions that we are leading to on the reform of the justice system in Poland. But this system, which allows the assessment of the validity of the national Parliament's proposals on the non-compliance of the European Commission's legislative initiative with the principle of subsidiarity, is clearly an example of a situation where there is no independent arbitrariness. On the contrary, there is an arbiter here, who is keenly interested in proving, more or less rapidly, that the lege artis is clearly acting and certainly another legislative initiative does not affect the principle of subsidiarity in any way, which we all agree is the most sacred value, the theoretical, fundamental, institutional basis of the European Treaties. This is a highly imperfect situation, because so far we have not seen a situation in which national Parliaments would have adopted effectively and largely the belief that the initiative does not comply with the principle of subsidiarity and that the Commission would agree with it. Commission every time And this, to be honest, is becoming more and more rapid, because some of these reasons have only one side It simply claims that it does not agree with this opinion, so we will proceed with the procedure. Well, the difference between a position, as I say, often a one-page executive body, while on the other side we have 11 parliaments, often two-roomed... this difference is quite colossal. Right? Institutional balance, balance is defined in the treaties themselves in a highly imperfect way. Poland strongly supports actions which would strengthen these control mechanisms on the part of national parliaments, but not to make something difficult for anyone, but to make the European process more based on the will of people expressed in the general elections. This expression, of course, is the results of the general elections and the compositions of parliaments. Right? This is a fairly elementary democratic observation, but this point of view is not very popular in the European Commission and is often seen as an instrument which, although it has a very strong argument, a democratic justification, can have undesirable effects on the efficiency side. The question is, what is more important to us: is the effectiveness of decision-making, or the quality of these decisions, or the legitimacy of these decisions? This is a serious political question and we will want the Member States to speak at the right time. Certainly Poland will insist that the yellow card mechanism in practice has shown that it is a paper mechanism, it is basically fiction. If we really want to recognise that the principle of subsidiarity is important to us and national parliaments should have their vote in the legislative process, we must equip these national parliaments with instruments that are real, for example, in accordance with the principle of the red card, simply rejecting the Commission's legislative proposal after crossing some threshold. I'm not saying to just do it, but 11 national parliaments, including a few two-rooms, that's probably enough, given the power of democratic legitimacy of these parliaments. Yes? So that we can get back to this discussion. As far as Mercosur is concerned, the Ministry of Agriculture is, of course, examining the consequences very closely, particularly in agricultural matters... This is the only element that is controversial and where there are potential competitive imbalances. Prime Minister Morawiecki and President Macron, Prime Minister of Belgium and Prime Minister of Ireland were four heads of government of the countries of the European Union who... Belgium, Ireland and...? Belgium, Ireland, France and Poland. ...they signed a letter on this matter, clearly indicating that it is appropriate to take care to the quotas for agri-food production and to effectively control the agri-food production standards that would land on the European market. It is not only about health standards but also about climate standards, which are increasingly on the European side. Climate policy is not a long time ago only energy, but also falls burdens on agri-food production. Obviously, those standards aren't just out there. Not that they're unobserved. These standards are not in the case of Mercosur countries. And more questions. I am afraid that the exact answer to the question of how many contacts there were between the Polish Prime Minister and the President of the European Council, simply does not exist. This is because the European Council is a body that sits behind closed doors and during meetings of the European Council, I think, there are dozens of contacts in different constellations, because when there are difficult situations, everyone talks to everyone. To be honest, I have doubts whether Prime Minister Morawiecki notes these essential facts in the form of an exchange of views with the chairman of the Council, because they can be so numerous that they can slip away from statistics. So I'm afraid I won't be able to live up to your expectations to precisely list it. I also do not know if I can convince the Prime Minister to record any such meeting in a pebble, so that later I can share with the Sejm how many times he had a conversation with President Tusk and perhaps on what subject. Minister... I also don't think that these are facts that are relevant enough to conduct such statistics. The European Council has a very high level of interaction in its nature, particularly at a time when there is a crisis on, for example. The fact that someone doesn't like the conclusions, or that someone doesn't like the personal decision. Yes? Then these meetings. I'm sure you've noticed that lately. They're continuous. I do not rule out that President Tusk is taking part in some of these meetings because this cannot be ruled out. President Tusk may be involved in many of them, but this is happening behind closed doors, so it will be very difficult to answer this question seriously. Minister, I'm serious about this, so please... But I'm serious. No, you're not serious. You can't be serious. I'm talking dead serious. Mr. Marshal, this is the next part... The European Council shall sit behind closed doors. I'm asking about the contacts of the Polish government... Well, it's hard to get a better connection. ...not only the Prime Minister, but also you or other members of the government. The only protocol equivalent of the President of the European Council is the Prime Minister... I'm not asking about protocol meetings, I'm asking about contacts. Well, I said to you that this reality cannot be described, because the treaty's assumptions are that the European Council is sitting behind closed doors. Okay... The last time the European Council met, the telecommunications field was shut down so that there would be even less information from this Council meeting, so please do not put any tasks ahead of me... No, I don't do any tasks or expect you to answer. That's what I'm gonna say in my speech. You're welcome. As regards the question of the Article procedure. 7 of the Treaty, it is in the report I presented to you that this fact is noted because it concerned selected meetings of the General Affairs Council. That's all I have to add.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u39	You're asking Senator Jackowski a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I still have a question about this climate policy. We know that there is a lot going on here, so I have the following question: how in the opinion of the Polish government the Union imagines total decarbonisation No, there are such predictions that by 2030 or 2040 there will be complete coal withdrawal When it is known that 800 kg of coke coal is needed in the technological process of steel production in 1 t of steel? So total decarbonisation de facto would mean inability to... I am not talking about other areas of the economy, where coal is also used not only as an energy resource but also in other aspects. Therefore, I have a question: whether in the past six months I refer to the period from January to June Any further reflection on the rationality of the decarbonisation process in EU structures? Well, I'm referring to a certain, let's call it reasonableness. Has the number of countries that see this issue increased in the European Union? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u41	And you're gonna ask Senator Czerwinski another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u42	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As recommended by your marshal, I will raise three points, and I will ask three questions. The first concerns the issue of Ukraine already discussed here. We have problems with regard to historical policy, about differences in the understanding of historical policy between us and Ukraine, which certainly does not help Ukraine's accession to the European Union. The question is: do other countries, the Western neighbours of Ukraine, also have some unexplained issues related to Ukraine that could affect the accession process? That's the first question. The second question concerns the very interesting information I have found, information on the discussions on the visa facilitation agreement between the European Union and Belarus, which will concern us directly, because these Belarusians will first of all get to us and then go into the European Union. and some negotiations on the priorities of the partnership. Is there anything more you can tell the Minister about this? And the third point is very specific, but I'm interested. These are technical and geographical military requirements for transport infrastructure. This is to be prepared in the form of an annex to the CEF Regulation. Poland is keenly interested in this. If the Minister could say anything about this now, I would appreciate it, and if not, please respond in writing. It would be best if in Polish the draft of this annex, these military requirements for transport infrastructure, were sent to me. I'd appreciate that.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u43	Because there are already four questions together, I will ask, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u44	Certainly, historical issues play a very important role in the bilateral Polish-Ukrainian relations. They do indeed affect what our bilateral relations are like and what our bilateral relations are, but this does not translate into EU issues and I do not think it should translate into EU issues. The process of Ukraine's accession to the European Union is probably postponed, significantly delayed in time, not only because of what is happening in Ukraine itself, which is primarily responsible for Russia, but also because the European Union has lost its de facto ability to expand of strategic importance. This is currently a highly theoretical political problem. However, all the measures that aim to bring regulatory order closer together in order to strengthen trade relations, political cooperation are in the European Union's best interest and, if there are any obstacles, they are not related to history. They are linked to the fact that some countries are highly uninterested in making the European Union more aware of the problems of the east of the Union or of the east of Europe, as is the case here. As regards the European Union's Visa Agreement, Belarus, I will give you a written reply because I have no clarity on this matter. As far as transport infrastructure is concerned, I will say that in this area Poland is a participant in the PESCO processes, because this is one of the areas where the NATO and European Union objectives coincide. I think these are some of the most advanced PESCO processes in which Poland participates. As far as technical issues are concerned, I must ask the Ministry of Infrastructure to share its sector knowledge, because it does not go to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and I do not think that such issues are going to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at all.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u45	You're asking Senator Rulewski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u46	Thank you. I hope, Mr. Marshal, that without censorship and without embargo, because I'm sticking to the subject. First question Maybe you've already answered them. I wasn't in the O.R. It concerns the impact of the rule of law and immigration quotas on the development of the budget. But specifically, is there going to be an index reference or just an opinion? The second issue is Brexit, which shows a lot that it will be ultimative. Is there a detailed list of problems in our ministry, in your department, in addition to these legal ones, i.e. technical, financial, commercial and other organisational problems related to this violent Brexit? You mentioned one problem, the issue of transport, which is really important, but there is still a whole sphere of technology, technical links. The third point, Minister, is this. Did the Presidency discuss the issue of the customs war between the European Union and the United States, let us be frank, restricting Poland? Contacts extremely... It's not a judgment... Is this not the result of the Union's retaliation measures for LNG-related cooperation? Isn't American gas gonna be covered by customs? Already during the Romanian Presidency, preparations have taken place for personal changes in the Union, in the Commission and in the Council, on other agendas. Is our government leading... or is it using contacts with the President of the European Council, Prime Minister Tusk? And if so, do you find them fruitful? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u47	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u48	As far as rule of law and immigration are concerned, actually I mentioned this during your absence, noting that Polish doubts about the regulation governing the use of the budget from compliance with the rule of law are shared by the legal services of the board and we maintain a serious dispute at the level of the General Affairs Council. As far as immigration is concerned, Poland does not exclude the Union's greater interest, which may entail financial consequences. But we expect that the compromise will be balanced, that it will not be based on the belief that money can easily be transferred from agricultural policy or cohesion to migration and thus address the problem. In short, the level of ambition in this matter will depend on whether or not there will be new money. If there is no new money, the level of ambition on migration will have to be reduced. As regards the customs war between the European Union and the United States, this is, of course, a hypothetical scenario. Poland is doing everything to ensure that such a scenario does not take place, for various reasons. And it is not only about the particular goals of Poland. We see in this potential serious political damage that we should avoid. As far as personal issues are concerned, it is difficult here to have a more explicit example of a situation where contacts with the outgoing President of the European Council are of little importance. The whole process is aimed at selecting, as you know, the successor to President Tusk. Of course, the whole process. I'm talking about circulation, gathering information, etc. It was organised by the secretariat of President Tusk. I do not want to make any sense of anything here, but I will say that the purpose of this process is to find the person who will perform this function after the end of the term of office of President Tusk. So this necessarily has a limited meaning. As far as Brexit is concerned, it would certainly have the most important effects of Brexit without agreement. I'm talking about regulatory, commercial, certification, market access. That is why I have drawn attention to the availability of the transport market, both in the case of circular transport and in the case of air transport, because it is a blood circulation for the economy. It is impossible to imagine lowering the commercial costs of an unconventional brexite without guaranteeing the availability of the market for services, because it determines an efficient, physical, technical, you can say, ability to carry out commercial activities in the case of goods. As far as regulatory issues are concerned, I think we are prepared to make the costs as small as possible here, but these costs must arise precisely because there are still physical, technical issues in addition to regulatory issues. Such a technical issue in the UK is the physical availability of the UK market through geography, the insularity of the market. This is going to be very difficult to compensate for. Eurotunnel has been designed in terms of capacity for a country that has long been a member of the common market and a member of the customs union. And there's a difficult situation anyway. You will remember that Calais is a famous town just because it is very difficult to manage freight traffic, but it works. In the event of a disturbance in the regulatory order of the common market, we expect inevitable negative consequences for the capacity of this main channel of physical access to the UK market. There are actions to counter this. We are in contact with the French administration, which is doing everything it can to delocalise, under European law, some of the formal actions that will be needed in the event of customs clearance. It is, of course, possible to do, but very difficult and generating huge costs. There are attempts to create alternatives in the form of ferry availability to the British market, but they do not seem to be a very serious compensation for the breakdown of physical exchange relationships due to possible unconventional brexite. Of course, Poland has been conducting inter-ministerial activities on this issue for several months. We also conducted them when no one believed that Brexit could be carried out without a contract, in a chaotic, completely unpredictable way. We have tried to pay particular attention to the economic environments to this eventuality, because apart from what we can do at the level of European Union law, and what has been done, or at the level of national law, which has also been done, a significant part of this reality is a reality which is only in contracts. Different business models, value chains are known only to trading participants. And here the administration doesn't help much. It is the market players themselves who have to answer the question of how to respond to a situation where the current model of operation may be annulled from day to day. This is a very serious perspective which, in my opinion, has not been taken seriously enough by a large part of economic life participants, but I hope that those coming months which, I think, clearly show us that we are moving towards a negative scenario will stimulate a sufficiently profound reflection to reduce these costs also on the part of the participants, on the contractual side. However, the situation is so serious that I personally do not believe that these costs can be offset to zero that the process of unconferential brexite can be cost-free. It will have enormous consequences. For both parties, of course. Which are not fully known today, as this is an unprecedented situation, in particular as regards urgency. One of the key advantages of the exit, which was rarely mentioned, to be honest, because we focused on financial settlement issues or citizens' rights, absolutely crucial, without them we will not move with further negotiations on new relations between the United Kingdom and the EU 27 but no less important advantage of the exit agreement was attributed to it for a transitional period. It was assumed that, for at least 2 years, the UK would be a participant in the common market and customs union, i.e. for economic life participants, nothing would have changed in principle in order to enter gently into the scenario of new relations negotiated at the same time, which would already present a version of these relations in line with the expectations of both parties. It wasn't much time anyway. Two years, maybe a little more, it wasn't enough, but he's been around for some time to adapt. Today, unconventional brexit can mean that neither we nor the participants in economic life will have this comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u49	You're asking Senator Alicia the Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u50	Thank you very much. Minister, every now and then there are voices from the Union about a return to the idea of creating a common European army. Is this an ongoing subject? And who's the biggest supporter of this idea? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u51	Are there any more questions for the Minister? Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u52	I would ask for such detail as you have recently presented, which was not in response to the question of contacts with the President of the European Council, who is still the President and who participates in staff change as an active participant, is not just one who emptys out the desk. I'm talking about two issues. One thing you've touched, Senator Czerwinski, and I'm going to explore it. The budget shows whether there is a position on the preparation of military infrastructure for a possible common military and defence policy. The question is: are we already making any proposals, e.g. in the field of roads? After all, they are located in Poland such small centres of defence policy. And the second question. Is the Polish government going to help with the problem The British side indicates that we are a group of economic migrants with the lowest activity, which means that if these Poles do not register in the plans, let's say, the British, they will simply return to Poland, and there is no need to predict what the consequences will be. In other words, our consular services could help Poles and explain this perhaps quite complicated process.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u53	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u54	The registration of Poles living in the British Isles and in different legal situations, also in different professional ways in the Islands, is an easy process based on a mobile application that does not create any obstacles. I mean. We did not notice that this was a process that would have built into it some obstacles that would really hinder the average customer's registration process. This registration is necessary because, in the case of a non-contractual agreement in particular, but also in the latter case, we need to be clear who has been able to acquire rights in connection with their stay in the Islands before the date of the UK's departure from the European Union. Acquired rights will be fully protected both contractually and legally, but the subject-matter must be based on registration in British offices. That's, I think, a fairly rational assumption. We assume that the migration policy of the United Kingdom will simply change once membership has ceased, then the United Kingdom as a third country will have full right, full competence to do exactly what it wants to do with its migration policy. The strategic focus of the key Polish government was to safeguard all rights acquired by all Polish citizens who stayed in the Islands before the date of departure. In line with the model of protection of those rights, which is adopted in EU law. Yes? In other words, not according to the will of such or other political ones, but according to the scope of those rights which are protected, very generously protected, the rights of citizens under EU legislation. This concerns not only the availability of the labour market, forms of support, job search. This also applies to such serious things as the coordination of social benefits. Contrary to some opinions, Poles are one of the most active social groups in the UK. More than in Poland during the past period, although this may not be the case now. Thus, they are naturally a very serious payer of contributions to various types of insurance or social security. These contributions cannot be left unprotected in case, for example, these persons. they have decided to take these benefits elsewhere, which is likely and entirely possible. The EU rules on the coordination of benefits ensure full protection of these contributions so that they do not provide benefits to someone else. And that is also the subject of this protection, but, of course, registration is a prerequisite. This registration takes place in a very late manner I don't know why that is. We encourage, also through the network of consulates, which is developed on the territory of the Islands, to do so. Of course, we still have a lot of time, but we should not delay it too much, because it is a very important fact for the future enforcement of our rights after membership has ceased. This is one of the most important elements of Polish consular action in the Islands and so far, to be honest, we have not encountered any problems in this matter. The UK administration has worked very well with our services to ensure that this registration can run smoothly, seamlessly and as widely as possible. As far as military mobility is concerned, this problem has emerged with the greatest force throughout Central Europe during the recent NATO military maneuvers of the past. Turns out in our part Even if we secure military capabilities, we do not have the right level of mobility. This is of paramount importance for security, which is why we focus on this in the initiatives covered by the PESCO structural cooperation. Poland is doing a lot on this issue and we would like this issue to be developed as part of EU programmes as well, because it coincides with our NATO commitments. Our political assumption that cooperation in defence policy in the European Union makes sense, but only when it is synergistic towards NATO, in practice means, among others. selection of projects that have the same purpose, so as not to do at the same time things that are divergent. Because it's not a contradiction. Of course, I do not assume that wherever there is a clear contradiction. We would like to avoid discrepancies in these efforts, because the resource is one and should be used for one purpose In line with the State's defence policy, but also in line with the State's obligations as a member of NATO. And through this prism we will evaluate all initiatives, including new initiatives in the field of defence policy of the European Union. This, of course, is behind the question of the European army. I think that the concept of the European army is functioning in a political language in order to clearly and easily illustrate the direction of action. However, if we were to ask ourselves what this would mean in practice, we would have to come to the conclusion that on the basis of the treaties, the creation of something that could really be called a European army, i.e. not only a common resource, which, suppose, is under one common flag, but also has the ability to make decisions about getting the army out of the barracks... This is the result of a real army, this is not an army that sits somewhere. Well, it is very far from the political and institutional capacity of the European Union, so I would rather call it an attempt to visualize it clearly. However, as a general rule, we agree that the European Union could do more in terms of its security, provided that this would not be a separate, centrifugal action in relation to NATO's main security platform. I think that this view in the vast majority of Member States is shared by them and is not the subject of some passionate discussion today. Some countries choose their language a little differently in this matter, perhaps a little more cautious. I would like to point out that even President Macron in such a manifesto, a program article before the European elections... And France, let's say, is seen as a country that would be more interested than other countries in building distinctness or some strategic autonomy of the European Union. Even President Macron, in a very short text, when talking about defence policy, pointed out the need for an agreement with NATO. This is a very good signal, because this means a growing level of realism in terms of those genuine EU defence policy initiatives which, as I say, could be more ambitious. They'll come true. not only in terms of building some intervention capacity, which is already taking place In the case of countries wishing to engage in this activity, because it is not yet a Community policy, but it will largely be done by what the Union has for sure, i.e. by the redistribution capacity expressed in the budget. And here Poland is constructively focused on seeking a compromise, it is not taboo for us, but of course this duvet has its width. Right? Therefore, if at the same time we hear that the budget is going to go towards 1% GNI, we ask the question: where to get money for such far-reaching plans? Some of these plans are very ambitious when we have to meet development expectations, different expectations: agricultural policy, structural policy, cohesion, migration, and finally defence. Well, here's where you need a little realism. Some Member States have told us with one breath that we are to make a qualitative leap from migration and defence and at the same time demand an even smaller budget. It doesn't seem like a realistic approach. I think that if in the Polish Sejm someone came and said that suddenly I had to take care of something extremely expensive, and at the same time said that we would lower the level of the budget in relation to GDP, it would rather be accepted as someone who does not make realistic expectations. It would be kind of a wishful thinking. In the Union, the same principles whether or not they should act in relation to the budget. So we are gently reminding you that the level of ambition in this case is dependent on whether we really want to finance it together.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u55	The list of people who want to ask the question has been exhausted. Thank you, Minister. Thank you. I would like to inform you that the Minister has undertaken to provide a written answer to the questions asked by the senators: Kleina, Wcisła, Borusewicz and Czerwiński. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Wach will be the first to speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u56	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to say briefly about climate policy and the link between this subject and the problem advocated by the European Union to achieve climate neutrality by 2050. Climate policy is growing into a fundamental issue in the European Union and in the world. We in the country have avoided this topic, it has been uncomfortable for us, but the practice of everyday life and surprising, as it seemed, the speed of change in this area has caused even a change in the public opinion, which until recently stood quite unambiguously by coal, so to say whether at the same time the model of professional energy. With regard to the Paris Agreement, which was the first major agreement to this extent, it was actually based, despite various difficulties, on certain concrete data, namely the limitation of temperature increases, on the size up to 2°C, and this request was the result of climate modelling, which is extremely difficult, unprecise and, let's say, was contested by opponents of energy and CO2 constraints. You have to tell yourself that it's true that models And there's a lot in the world right now, because it's growing because of demand, and because of power increases, let's say, computing machines, computers, so that's what's going on... So these models are multiple. However, the conclusions are beginning to draw quite clear. And another, let's say, requirement, further forecasts for the increase in average temperature seem more likely than those made earlier. But it has to be said that everything that has happened in this area is... We don't know the future, we can only prolong trends when it comes to facts, not models. So everything that happens, in relation to models, looks more dangerous, goes worse and faster than the models do, e.g. from the Oxford model, which in several versions is actually treated as a base model. I have the impression that our imperfect yet highly suggestive opinion is based on what we are experiencing and what we are observing. In the short time horizon, most cases for several decades This confirms that actually climate change, rising temperatures and related phenomena are happening. Poland belongs to countries where it is also visible. Yeah, it's visible here, too. Changes in circulation, more days with temperatures above 30°C and, let's say, an increasing share of pelagic circulation and influx of warm air, as well as geological observations, e.g. level of groundwater, stepping in the field of the central belt of Poland, i.e. Wielkopolski and e.g. Łódź, already present water shortages, both for agricultural purposes and vegetation, as well as, temporarily, for some cities They show that the problem is serious. As far as our energy and coal policy are concerned, I would say that we are politically done with coal. All the parties that spoke on the subject The ruling party has also begun to emphasize very gently about the need to phase out from the use of coal and the need to increase the share of renewable sources, including photovoltaics. In the press we will find a lot of information about this, so I do not want to develop it on purpose. However, it must be said that the Prime Minister has also been very clear about this recently. And very well, and very well. In practice, however, we are attached to coal, and this seems, for many years, due to the investment process Not even because of mining and perhaps not because of, at least not to the same extent as before, employment in the Silesian mines, because imports of coal are huge in our country, and it is from a direction that we find unfavorable, because it is politically addictive. This is about Russia. In the whole situation I'm drawing here... It might seem that the link between all of this and today's topic is weak, but it is not weak at all, because the public in the European Union, where in many countries climate phenomena have very negative effects, both in the form of lack of water, the lowering of river levels, and also in the form of rivers. It's still unnoticed here. The increased migration... We often talk about poverty, especially war, as the main factor that causes migratory pressure, but really strong and constant migratory pressure is and will be linked to climate change and a marked demographic increase in the Middle East and Africa. And we won't be able to counter it. The treaties will not help here in the future and barbed wire will not help. The issue of reducing CO2 emissions is a key issue. The Union has seen this and we cannot be here in opposition. The Minister expressed himself well, saying that we are not, in fact,... that we would possibly like to see the pacts that would take place and the regulations that would result from them come with certain guarantees that would allow us to do so. That's basically the right thing to do. Nevertheless, our statements and positions so far make public opinion in many countries against us on this issue. And it needs to be changed clearly. We need help in this regard. While the government has announced a programme on the valuables of about PLN 15 billion concerning water supply, the construction of water reservoirs and the gradual resolution of the problem of possible drought, in the long term we cannot manage without cooperation and without co-financing from the European Union. With the wrong opinion in this regard, we are making our chances worse, and we are a very vulnerable country, a very dry country and, contrary to appearances, one that will suffer the enormous consequences of climate change. Once again, it must be made clear that we do not really know the future and that modelling in this area is imperfect. And what we ourselves are observing and what other people are watching, pressing on parliaments in their countries, is the fact that changes are happening quickly. Something has to be done about this. It is time to honestly say that this modeling, which I mentioned, is becoming more and more perfect, does not respond sufficiently to the question of whether, if human-induced carbon emissions were to be completely discontinued, the situation would quickly return to its previous state. There's no guarantee of that. People are scared. The problems that are already happening are that no one else will tolerate us in connection with, firstly, large consumption and large burning of hard coal and, secondly, arrogant climate positions. That's why I appeal. The economic situation... Time's up, Senator. ...we will not change from day to day, but we must change our approach as well as the verbalisation of these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u57	Thank you, Senator. You have a voice, Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u58	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm very sorry I couldn't ask you any questions during your speech. Unfortunately, today's way of holding the meeting by Marshal Karczewski prevented us from asking such questions. I really wish I hadn't. I sometimes feel that when the Minister comes here with the subject of the European Union, Marshal Karczewski understands our discussion in such a way that whatever goes beyond the issue of the European Union does not belong to the subject at all. Well, how can you say that? After all, foreign policy is a function of both our internal relations in the European Union and our relationship with other partners. And if our foreign policy has been very strongly leaning towards a direct alliance with the United States for years, then it has some effect on our own, so to speak, internal position and our situation within the European Union. If Minister Chaputowicz makes a positive decision on Russia's return to the Council of Europe, it also affects our internal situation in the European Union. Why? Because for a long time, for at least a year or a half, I have had no doubt, as head of the EPP in the Council of Europe, that the policy of Germany and France towards Russia is changing in a very negative way for us. And it's not just a question. Nord Stream II, that's just the whole philosophy of looking at geostrategics and global politics. And how we now have to talk in this Chamber about our internal circumstances in the European Union, since we are cutting ourselves off in this discussion, i.e. We're cut off by your marshal. From the cases that are related to it? Ukraine is obviously not in the European Union. But the way the Union starts to treat Ukraine, the way it starts to favour relations with Russia, means something to us. Not just for us, as a sovereign country, in the international arena. This also affects our situation within the European Union. And that is why I believe that today's discussion, as a result of the Marshal's decision to allow such questions and not other questions, has been depleted. And I really regret it. Nevertheless... But the senator speaks freely. I speak freely, but... Well, go ahead. ...I must also note that there has been a change in the proceedings. And finally, if possible, if the Minister answers later, I would like to know, of course, if you think that you can speak to us today... Because there was a very large dissonance between the decision of the ministerial committee, where Poland voted in favour of Russia's return, because that's what you have to call it and not run away on technical issues that it was not about... That's exactly what it was about. And so it was understood by our very close partners. I'm talking about the Baltics, I'm talking about the Ukrainians, I'm talking about the Georgians, even Armenia voted against. I don't want to be misunderstood. I am not against good relations with Russia and improving these relations. I also somehow share the argument that there must be a forum in which Russia can be dealt with. But since we meet with representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs before going to Strasbourg, where these decisions were to be put on, and both I and my colleagues who are on a delegation to the Council of Europe from Law and Justice, do not understand this decision at all, we are shocked. We in the forum, in the parliamentary assembly, vote against, because that is what parliamentarians from both formations tell us, experience and understanding of it. Then I don't understand why this dissonance and what caused it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u59	Thank you, Senator. You have a voice, Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u60	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am also moved by the fact that at the end of the Senate term there is censorship, and it is censorship introduced by the office, the Marshal's office, which unexpectedly limited the possibility of asking clearly substantive questions, notabene questions, which were actually invited by the Minister himself in his speech. I translate it in two ways. First of all, the fact that an upcoming election campaign But it's not just that. It makes you a marshal for a party officer. And secondly, the fact that in the PiS environment there was a far-reaching change in the interests of the state, which consisted of... Well, during the first half of the term of office, the Union was shown, relations with the Union as a vast philosophy of cooperation, over which the mysterious demiurg led Poland to the abyss was hovering. The Union as an embassy of German interests. The Union as a limiting of Europe's spiritual values. Finally, the Union as an institution exploiting relations with Poland, acting as a force. It was a good thing that the government really changed it and decided that... Well, sorry, one more thing: in these arguments our great Pole, a man distinguished - You're Tusk, of course, is almost a resident of the villa where Mrs Merkel lives. It is therefore a good thing that from this uncomfortable, untrue and damaging position of Polish interests, the government drew conclusions and, using the element of the election, started a dialogue, as if there were no, again with Germany, with the German party's promotion. Maybe I'd say in person that I'd be more... Well, with more distance I would refer to this dialogue than to the dialogue with the predecessor, because we were associated with the previous one with the experience of functioning in the communist system. It was also to be hoped that Mrs Merkel, very empathetic in matters, I would say, of mercy. But she's the minister's daughter. She will understand very well all those who have remained in the same situation as her and her family. In fact, she confirmed it in her life, among other things. an opening for people's emigration. In this case, however, I will not judge. I think this dialogue with the European Union No matter who manages it, what country this person is from, but democratically It will be this time without the ideological obstacles that, unfortunately, the PiS government is putting up. It happens. And this is so important that indeed the Union... This idea is not so much in crisis as, as always in life, the crisis is around the Union It is, however, exported to this Union regardless of the very open borders. One of these crises we all know about. There is a huge war of empires, sometimes of a continental dimension, in which the global economy tries to take on a privileged position. And that's why it's a good thing that this Union Actually, it was predicted or maybe it was perceived that this kind of situation was created, and fortunately we function in it on full rights. And it is precisely the expression of these full rights that, regardless of the relationship we had previously had with the Union, I mean this sphere of conflict, important conflicts about the rule of law, emigration, the creation of exceptional rights for Poland, Mrs. von der Leyen paid a visit to Poland as a second country, not only to show courtesy, but to enter into working discussions. I thank the government for that, too. For having done this autoreflexion, this reset in these relations. Perhaps now these conversations will be in a good atmosphere. The expression of this crisis is, of course, Brexit, but it is wrong... Although this is not the case for the Minister, it is wrong, and thus detrimental to Polish interests, to focus on the negligence of our representative, the President of the European Council. Today, it is clear that once this evil ally of Polish affairs is gone, the politicians of Great Britain are tightening their rigid position towards the European Union, including Poland. So this wasn't the reason. Maybe you should have, Minister. And you used to talk about it. Find another source of this brexite, it's real. And maybe in these bilateral relations and in the work of the Union it was necessary to act to alleviate brexite. Well, I agree with you that we are facing a very serious social, economic and political burden in our relations with Great Britain, while weakening the European Union. And it was also a good thing, Minister, that as a result of personal changes behind this presidential table, behind this desk, behind this bleacher... Well, you said in answer to my question, what problems will come after brexite, including the unconventional ones. Unfortunately, because of this censorship, I had to question this on a train of travelers who were going from Britain or the UK. You mentioned the problems with transport, the limitations. It's said that the trucks will be waiting to enter Europe. Very many of them are Polish trucks In the parking lot with a length of 100 km. And even worse information flows. I'm sorry, but I I didn't want to develop anymore. From the energy market. England consumes European energy, England exports European energy. And even if it is quite understandable, it was explained to me that what concerns the transmission of this energy is about tariffs, standards, even sensors or clocks that measure it. It will cease to apply in the case of a non-contractual brexite. And the question is, how will the new one behave? Great Britain as a large consumer of our food. Will he change his standards? Besides the price, which is already obvious, will it change what you also mentioned, which is certificates? Will it allow other partners with more favourable parameters for which these certificates will have a higher price? That's right, you've noticed. And, frankly, I confirm what you say, that the interest in business, which is extensive in relations with Great Britain, especially among employers' organisations, is low. And I would ask, Minister, that the government, not wait for who it belongs to. And this really belongs to those NGOs that have their own structures, and of course it does. But he helped them to get the government to help them. Finally, Mr Marshal, I believed that the opposite of what you have decreed was Marshal Karczewski, limiting this discussion, something that should happen in the Senate will happen all day we should be discussing the European Union in this Brexit context. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u61	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jarosław Oremski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u62	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I listened with great interest to Senator Pociej, who spoke about the change in French and German policies towards Russia, the disadvantage of changing the attitude of these countries towards Ukraine. This is indeed something that we are seeing at European Council level. We can see in all of the obvious, all of the brightness of the instrumental treatment of values. Nothing has happened in recent years in Russian politics, which would allow us to withdraw... In fact, this means accepting certain aggressive actions of Russia. It's just that I think Senator Pociej should draw some conclusions from this. If we see an instrumental approach to values among the Member States of the European Union, then perhaps from this perspective we should also look at actions towards Poland, the launch of the article. 7, to the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Well, I'm just saying, it's kind of an element that's supposed to sort of set up negotiations to, for example. The money for the Cohesion Fund was less. I think it's been around since 2008. Maybe I've sinned before with some naivety. We are not dealing with far-reaching European solidarity. We want to believe that, but it's not quite like that. Judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union... There is a great deal of literature that shows that it is an instrument that has often served as an extra-traditional extension of integration. It is possible to trace judgments concerning e.g. freedom of service, which in a really very short time changed by 180 degrees at a time when France, and indirectly Germany, changed their way of looking, let's call it a Polish plumber, although this sentence, which was such a change, was applied to Budexpol and Finland. Senator Wach was talking about a bad opinion. I absolutely agree that it is better to have a good opinion than a bad opinion, but it seems to me that in foreign policy it is not so that there is always humility in the price Sometimes you can win by putting your case in a relatively sharp way. An example... I'm abstracting the question of assessment, because here we may be different, whether that attitude was right or wrong. But an example of greater or less sovereignty is winning to look at the problem of emigration. The consistent policy of the Visegrad Group resulted in a certain withdrawal of the EU countries in this matter. And now my question is this: since Poland, through the democratic government, did not want to accept quotas, did not want a mechanical administrative distribution of the number of migrants and as a result of the actions it led to the fact that this is not there, this proves our greater or less sovereignty? So humility is not... She may be a method, but she's not a rule. I recommend a two-horse ballad. A miller on the subject. And the last piece. The issue of President Tusk is constantly emerging here. As a Pole, I am very happy when Poles perform important functions, including in the European Union. It's certainly always or almost always good for our country. I'd just like to ask you to catch a certain proportion in all of this. I think if we now question the people on the street, who will be Juncker's successor in the European Union, everyone will answer. But I have the impression that if we question who will be Tusk's successor, it will respond to an extremely low percentage of people. I want to say yes. I am very happy when Poles win the world championship in ski jumps, but my joy would be much greater if they won it in football. And that's more or less showing some proportions. To what extent we were able to take advantage of President Tusk's role, that is, perhaps, a separate matter. A separate, difficult conversation would also be considering on which side there was an account of omissions. One last thing. There is a problem related to the efficiency of the European Union and the Polish interest. If the subsidiarity principle does not work as I think it should, if there is some difficulty in extending interpretations, which are quite often not the most favourable for countries in a weaker negotiating position, so they may be outside such a triangle Brussels - Paris? - Yeah. Berlin, it is always the fear that something that is noble and right, and can be beneficial to the European Union as a whole, for certain parts Europe can be very unfavorable. I'll give you an example. We are currently considering a common industrial policy in the European Union. It can be a very interesting element of the European Union's economic self-defense due to its commercial, economic aggressiveness, such as communist China. I ask myself, if we had such a policy, it would be possible for example. block the sale of the port in Piraeus to the Chinese. Perhaps this is in the clear interest of the European Union. On the other hand, if we create such a mechanism, there is a danger that, for example. in Slovakia, in order not to use the Polish example, it will be difficult to invest in the automotive industry by large Japanese or Korean companies, because this is contrary to the interests of German big automotive companies. This shows how important it is to find a balance. I feel that, after 2008, this balance in Europe has been shaken, first of all for bureaucracy, which does not receive political signals and has a very far-reaching inertia, and secondly for the strongest players in the EU. We often have a common interest with them, but often this business is also different. And we should keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u63	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u64	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, I have listened with interest to your next report on the next Presidency of the European Union. This report is intelligently written, just like the previous one. I'll get right to him, but at the beginning, first of all, I want to say that Marshal Karczewski was wrong in taking the floor of the senators who wanted to ask questions. These questions concerned the rule of law or the rule of law procedures and the link between the rule of law and budgetary matters. Mr. Marshal Karczewski said that this differs from the subject matter. But it is worth reading the accounts. On page 90, there is a passage on the Article procedure. 7 Treaty on European Union against Poland. Although the title of Poland is not mentioned, there is a separate fragment. This passage has only 9 lines, so the proportion to the whole report and to the importance of this problem, which affects Poland, from which the government of PiS has had to explain itself for a long time and which has been in the tribunal in Luxembourg... This is a clear attempt to pervert this. But that was during the Romanian Presidency. This was absolutely not an offence beyond the matter of the deliberations that is currently under way. The most important part there was that Poland managed to reduce the intensity of this procedure during the Romanian Presidency. 'Cause Romanians have their problems, too. Yes, Romanians have their problems - similar ones, not the same ones. The Hungarians have the same. And the fact that these three countries are the new countries of the European Union, which belonged to the Eastern Block, is the argument used against the enlargement of the Union. That's the argument I heard about 15 years ago in the salons: didn't we take you in too early? And right now, it's not a discussion in the back room, it's a living room, it's just a discussion in the Union. When we talk about that some countries France, for example. It does not want to expand the Union, which is in our interest, that is, inter alia. with this. That's an argument. And it's related to this... About what? Because it's not true that the European Commission is picking on us, we don't know why. We don't know why! Because it's a good change. We're making good changes. It's the same everywhere else. That's not true, that's not true. And you're discussing... And the current government is discussing with the Union. I mean, it's not saying that it's not true that it's a lie, it's just saying, well, here's where we'll think, we'll wait. In a border situation, he withdraws. And rightfully, he's retreating. She's receding from cancer, which is backwards. This is one of the reasons why you're reluctant to expand. Of course, this is not the case with Turkey. What is happening in Turkey also has its influence. Blocking talks with Turkey must also affect other directions. Therefore, there is resistance to enlargement by countries such as Macedonia, Albania. I am not talking about Ukraine anymore, because from the point of view of our interests, Ukraine is of course the most important. That is why I asked about Romania's activity on this issue. Unfortunately, there was no specific information on whether Romania, as the Presidency, strongly supports us, whether it is following us or perhaps ahead of us. Romania may be our ally in this matter and should be our ally, and the role of Polish diplomacy is to achieve this. Immigration issues. This is not only about the fact that Poland has not told forced amounts, but also about the fact that Poland has not even told humanitarian corridors, which the Church has called for. I hear a lot of voices talking about rules here. Who, like who, but the Pope and the Catholic Church promote such principles, and the appeals to open humanitarian corridors for the wounded, for the children, in order to welcome here a few hundred people who are in an extreme situation, meet with a negative answer. What answer do they meet with? Not only is it negative, but it's also lying, and it's not true, because the answer is, "No, we've accepted one and a half million Ukrainians." But this is the answer for someone who doesn't even know that Ukrainians come here to work. In that case, the British may say that they have about a million or at least 700,000 Polish refugees. They're refugees? The Ukrainians are the refugees here? They come here to work, make money... Donbass. Mr. Senator... Donbass. And Crimea. Mr. Senator Radziwiel, I won't tell you to keep quiet, but I'm not disturbing you. Listen to what I have to say. Exactly. So it's a migration issue. Even for ethical reasons, we're in a lost position. War in Ukraine, war in Russia with Ukraine. And what if Russia goes further and we actually have one and a half million or three million Ukrainian refugees? Not the Ukrainians who come to work, but the ones who run from the war. Who's gonna help us? The French and the Italians will help us? They'll say, "What do we care?" You didn't help us... They've already helped once. ...you didn't help us, so take care of yourself. This must also be seen from this perspective. So migration. On this issue we need to consult together, but not in such a way that we are nothing, our home from the country, because migration is now in the south. What if it's from the east? No, that's when our cabin will be in the middle. Now on the questions that concern the President of the European Council, Donald Tusk. I agree with what you said about the role of President of the European Council. Yes, the President of the European Council cannot represent the country from which he is a citizen. But you demand it, you say it all the time: Donald Tusk does not represent Poland. And it is enough to create such a situation that someone will say that they represent Poland, and there will be a charge, a charge from other countries, because the chairman cannot represent Poland. But I'm asking about contacts, including your contacts. We have had problems, and we have problems, even if we have problems with growing protectionism. Indeed, this protectionism is increasing, but it is also the answer to what is happening in the world. - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. That's Trump in the United States, and so on. He also touched services, transport services, construction services. I remember 20 or 30 years ago I was invited by German trade unions to support... Mr. Marshal... ...their protest against social dumping. Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry, but time is up. I knew what this was about, what this social dumping meant. Because that's when it started. The association of "Solidarity" then supported this current relationship, that it was against social dumping. So he supported what other governments have proposed to limit the expansion of Polish companies. So, me asking about contacts... I didn't ask about formalized contacts, but in general I asked if there were any contacts or if you were talking to Donald Tusk. Who you're criticizing. Is it or isn't it? I didn't get an answer. I got this kind of slipping on questions from you. It's supposed to be answers, but they're answers that don't say anything. So the question is suspended and it will come back. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u65	Thank you very much. Senator Aleksander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u66	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In connection with this light discussion that has taken place here between the marshal and Senator Radziwiłł, I would like to support 100% What you said to the marshal, and add one very simple example. About a year ago, I had a chance to discuss... Along with several people from the Council of Europe, we had a visit and had a discussion with the king of Jordan, during which all Western colleagues were delighted that in the country where there are 2 or 3 million Jordanians, I no longer remember adding... In fact, it's hard to say that they're Jordanians, because there are Palestinians in the first place who came because of the escape... His colleagues admired the fact that he was able to accept 1.5 million Syrians in Jordan. The king smiled so modestly and said: you know, the state, it is not quite so, because they all worked with us, and only on weekends they returned to Syria, and now, one day, they have already stayed. So there's really not much that's changed there. And that's exactly what he said. - That's very right. Mr. Marshal. Because these are two completely different situations. Senator Oremski. You said something in your speech that I agree with. You started with the fact that we do see a certain erosion of values in the Council of Europe, and hence our outrage at events concerning the whole history of Russia's return. But when you say "A," it's... Well, I'll have to say for the senator. Okay, okay, Because the senator put it this way, that the lack of solidarity in Europe towards us is supposed to be the reason for this harassment, seizing us. That's how I understood your statement. If it's wrong, of course I'm willing to correct what I'm saying. But that's how I understood what you said. And here I disagree with the senator. Someone very nicely said that Europe is not a bailout money, it's just that it's mostly... It's not even just a set of economic values that's supposed to help economically. Of course, these are important issues, but this is the basis of the democratic state's value system, the approach to justice, as well as And here again I will refer to the words of Marshal Borusewicz Aid in emergency situations and in the event of adverse events in a Member State. And this thesis, which you formulated by Marshal Borusewicz, about what will happen, if these 2 million refugees from the East actually come to us, is not devoid of rationality, because then we will knock on everyone's door. Because as long as 1 million Ukrainians who come here to work, who integrate, that's not a problem, except when there are 4 million people here, that's gonna be a problem. We're not gonna be able to hold on to all these people, unfortunately. This is where I can agree that perhaps the policy of the Union as a whole should be changed. At the moment she is actually changing, Germany is changing its approach to this maybe too joyful at some point in the policy of accepting everyone and it is certainly visible. The Italians also put it harder, because there was this problem concerning the captain of the ship, who, despite opposition, wrapped it in the Italian port. So you can see that it's changing. I think we should certainly be more helpful in Africa. And here I agree with this demand that we need to help there more than allow for the uncontrollable tide of these migrants. But that doesn't change the fact that we owe each other this help. Mr. Senator said that you can run not such a humble policy, but you can put things harder. I do not agree with the suggestion made in this thesis that it is as if the government is at this moment such a wonderful, firm negotiation of certain matters, and those previous governments were just so cautious, humble. I would like to draw the attention of the senator to a series of events in Polish-German-French relations. What did Chirac say? He dared to say that Poland missed the moment when it was necessary to keep quiet. He could say something like that. Sarkozy also treated We're rather indulgent. Why? Because Europe was ruled by tandem, an axle, a strong French-German axis. And then we didn't have much to say. However, at some point this axis turned into a Polish-German axis. Already President Hollande suddenly started coming here, doing a powerful job to tear this Polish-German axis apart. Suddenly he started talking, he started going back to the Weimar Triangle, while his predecessors tried to eliminate us from it. In my opinion, this is an effective policy, and today's policy is not effective when it comes back to the tacky German-French one again. And that's the government that led to it. In addition, some of our actions lead to the fact that only old Europe is back in the EU institutions: Spain, Italy, Germany, Netherlands. This is the scale of failure and regression, not political gain. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u67	Thank you very much, Senator. And again, Senator Jan Rulewski. Five minutes, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u68	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to address a little detail that, fortunately, seems to have disappeared from the discussion, but appears in connection with the LGBT. It is this general charge of the European Union that it does not respect Christian values, reject them or promote anti-Christian values, so often promoted. And, of course, here Ensigns are appointed Mr. Tusk. Mr. Tusk is a liberal, I'm not hiding it, it's because of my relationship... This allegation is, of course, false, but it could be assumed that, to some extent, the suspicion of the state, treated as a measure of caution, is in place. But Europe had the right to expect that when John Paul II, through European judgments, became Pope and then... What kind of convictions? What's that? By what? European Episcopates. European Episcopates... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I know you were on that conclave. I only heard that during the conclave some bishops, including Germans, participated in the selection. [[Talking in the O.R.]] If this seems ridiculous to you, I think it will be sad for you to say that Europe had the right to expect that when John Paul II, who was supporting the work of European integration and then proclaiming the feast of mercy, a feast in honor of the Polish saint... It wasn't a holiday in honor of the Polish saintly... But in connection with St. Faustina. So Europe had the right to expect, this Christian, that this mercy in the face of a migratory wave will take on permanent forms. Unfortunately, it didn't. This was mentioned by Marshal Borusewicz. I'm disappointed too. Two years ago I had an initiative, how consistent or consistent with what was said, especially Mrs Szydło, that help is needed there, on the spot. Indeed, I made such a proposal with a group of parliamentarians of the POs to tax themselves additionally in terms of 0.25% tax It's for children, disabled children, hospital construction, staff dispatch. Do you know why I put this together? I put it together. Mrs. Senator, you know these things, you only know how to run away from them. Because it happened in 1980, when we had a black night of violence, that almost 30,000 people emigrated, fled, were thrown into Europe, less to the United States. And today, I'm carrying a message. I am grateful to those people who accepted them, not necessarily Christians, because various parties ruled there, in the West, but in general to people who accepted our compatriots at a time when there was no place for them on free land. And as a member of the "Solidarity" and apparently they were all there. I have a moral obligation to demand a return even to those 30,000 children in Syria who have no prosthetics. My expectations aren't great. 0,25% additional tax gave the amount of 200 million PLN, giving Caritas a chance, our specific card of Christendom, to be there, on the spot In Syria, Lebanon, in the camps, he could carry out the Christian values you are talking about. And when it comes to election letters, these are not necessarily Christian letters. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u69	Thank you very much. Senator Jarosław Oremski again. Five minutes, then, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u70	Very briefly, Mr. Marshal. I'm in an awkward situation because I'm in such a position that Senator Pociej can't argue with me anymore... Ad vocem is still there. It's for me... but I think two words are needed about the Weimar Triangle. Of course, it is very important, but it seems to me that it is not only that we are dealing with more or less intense conversations and that the coherence of this body depends on it. It's not about talking. The point is, in the long term, whether or not we are going to liquidate shipyards, i.e. certain elements of the game of interests that can be dealt with within the Weimar Triangle. You think it's worse, I think it's not necessarily worse in this case. There is a problem in physics of three bodies interacting with each other, for which, unlike two bodies, You can't predict what's gonna happen. So it's a lot more complicated than that. I take it that in recent times the difference between the geopolitical and economic interests of France and the interests of Poland has increased. In the middle there are Germans who are trying to balance some situations. And I don't think it's like you say that we have a very strong cooperation on the Macron line, the German authorities. All you have to do is read the answer to the Macron manifestos about building a new Europe by a lady whose name I can't learn, so I'm just going to say A. K.K. These are very critical references to Macron's policy. There is also a change in the economic importance of the Visegrad Group. And this is also an element that somehow disrupts France's position on the European map. So we're dealing with certain movements of something new. Extrapolation into the past of Weimar 2008, during which I have the impression Our influence was that we drank champagne with them, but I do not take it so that it was a real influence on the decisions made... However, of course, this moment when Hollande came to Poland was important. But the question is: would the arrival of Macrona in Poland be effective at this moment? Because you have to read French politics as a policy that tries to blow up a little bit and the Intermarine, and the Visegrad Group, etc. So in my opinion, the case is much more complicated, and we're back to the physically unsolvable and mathematically unsolvable problem of three bodies.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u71	Thank you very much. I don't see any more calls. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Would the Minister like to take the floor and comment on the senators' speeches in the debate? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u72	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will not address all the specific issues that I have already raised in my speech and in the answers to questions, but I will be tempted to make a conclusion of a more general nature. I'm performing here for the ninth time, the last time in this government term, soon also Parliament, so that's it. I think it's a good opportunity to also share a certain reflection of a general nature. Nine times it's enough to realize or check if someone doesn't notice that the Polish government has been going through the last almost four years very unambiguously outlined path of defending Polish interests not to overstep someone after prints, not to over-empathize with self-confidence, but only to present Polish interests, justify them and defend them, if necessary, by means that are firm. Nothing else. You will not find what has been suggested here - some phrases, sudden autoreflexia. Just reach out to those documents that have been sent to the Senate and to the Sejm nine times, and just reach for these 9 speeches. I didn't notice there was any change in tone, he always, so to speak, goes exactly that path I was talking about at the beginning. It is true that Poland is willing to use drastic measures politically and rhetorically when necessary, but it is not the sense of our activity, we do so only when our partners force us to do so. At the same time, I think Poland has presented its ability to compromise in a very credible way over the last four years. We are constantly capable of it, ready... We even sometimes encourage compromises on all the Union's key issues, because the Union is a sensible element of our prosperity, a potentially important element of our security, and we want it to overcome its internal contradictions, its internal problems. But the compromise is not a value in itself, the compromise can only be built when the values, the interests of all parties are properly taken into account. That is why we have been saying the same thing for four years: a climate compromise is only possible if industries, regions, countries most at risk have guarantees, not a political declaration, but a guarantee that the burdens of this policy - and they are not only energy-related - are also in industry, agriculture, housing, transport - will be distributed fairly and compensation mechanisms will be realistic in response to the needs of these sectors, citizens, regions and countries. For four years we have been saying that a compromise on migration is possible. We're doing a lot on this. I will admit that the Polish contribution over the last four years, in terms of humanitarian activities, is four times greater than when we took over governments. These are not just declarations, they are very concrete actions, and the indicators far exceed those presented here - 200 million zlotys. We take our declarations seriously, but we are very clear that the migration compromise must be deprived of any forced migration or asylum. Is this a far-reaching expectation? I don't think so. This is a rational expectation coming from opinions, beliefs of this Sejm, this Senate and the Polish public. Member States have the right to choose the measures they want in their migration and asylum policies. It makes no sense to move towards transnational management of these processes, as demonstrated by the last four years, during which - and I am convinced - we have wasted too much energy and time troding around ideological, symbolically from the point of view of real answers to the problem, the issue of relocation. It's the same with defense policy. Poland does not say that the European Union should play a greater role in defence. The only thing we expect from this compromise, which must be shared, is something quite obvious from the fact that the West is one and that the European Union is part of this unity of the West. We expect these new actions, new instruments and money to serve the objectives of the Western security community, which is based on NATO. The great majority of the European Union's Member States are also NATO members and any progress in defence policy must not result in conflicting action, inconclusive action, because we do not have too many resources, we do not have too much money and we will not finance policies that are inconclusive. In short: in all these key areas of today's joint EU debate actually Poland represents a firm position in defence of its interests, has a clear vision in all these areas and is ready to compromise at a time when our partners will mature to the fact that today's European Union is the European Union of 28 Member States, not 2, not 3, only 28. Poland will not be able to convince itself that the alliance system in the European Union is to be brought to 1 or 2 capitals, that it is to be a rigid system which will not allow partners to choose according to what is due to interest. In this room there were many words of misunderstanding for the Polish position. This is, I believe, only because some of the opposition's representatives have tried hard for four years to argue with the caricature of the government's position. I understand that it's easier that you're basically doomed to success if you draw the caricature yourself and then the caricature gets scared to death, then you win. Please, I appeal from this place to stop arguing with caricatures and start arguing with facts, documents, words that fall here. [[Applause]] You have the opportunity to confront them directly. Then maybe it will be easier to understand Polish reasons better. For me, it is paradoxical that in this Chamber very often, even today, there are many words of understanding for the capitals that block the European budget, which block the enlargement process that the European Union is proposing to regress towards building a common market by promoting protectionism and at the same time I do not hear At least from the opposition benches The words of understanding for Warsaw's position. If you had just as much empathy for Warsaw, perhaps our discussions about the European Union would have been healthier. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u73	Thank you very much, Mr Konrad Szymanski, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, for presenting the information. I state that the Senate took note of the information for the Polish Sejm and Senate about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period of January and June 2019 (the presidency of Romania in the Council of the European Union). We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the Act amending the Commercial Companies Code Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1242, and the report of the Commission In print No 1242 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Rafał Ambrozik, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u74	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present a report on the work of the Legislative Commission on amending the Commercial Companies Code Act. This is a presidential initiative. The purpose of the Act is to allow for the holding of meetings of members of limited liability companies through electronic communications. As a general rule, such meetings shall take place at the premises of the company in the Republic of Poland. Such meetings may also be held outside the registered office if the company's agreement so provides, possibly if all the partners of the company agree in writing. Online voting is only possible if the company is registered in the electronic system in the S24 system. The proposal allows for such holding of meetings of shareholders in a limited liability company, proceding, transmissions, communication of shareholders, and the exercise of voting rights. The bill didn't raise any controversy. Even the opposition praised this bill. Therefore, with a unanimous vote... Senator Comfort smiles because it was Senator Pociej who expressed his satisfaction with the proposed bill. On behalf of the Legislative Commission, after a unanimous vote by the committee, I request the adoption of a law without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u75	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the president. Paweł Mucha was authorised to present the President's position in the course of parliamentary work. Would the President's representative like to take the floor on the bill under consideration and present the President's position? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u76	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! As the rapporteur has rightly said in the report here, it is a non-controversial law, a law which is a mapping of the real need of entrepreneurs. We want to give the opportunity to hold a meeting of partners in the company of the o.o. using electronic means of communication. This is the postulate with which the President's Chancellery originally addressed the Center to them. Adam Smith. The matter was examined in consultation with the National Development Council. The President of the Republic of Poland just signed a law on a simple public limited liability company. There are similar solutions for the possibility of electronic communication. This change was also prepared in cooperation with the government party. There's no doubt about the bill. I think thousands of Polish entrepreneurs are waiting for its reception. This is a law which gives, especially from the perspective of foreign entities, whether natural persons or legal persons, the possibility to participate effectively in a meeting of shareholders. And we know that these are ordinary gatherings or extraordinary gatherings in the companies of O.O. they must be carried out. In such a situation, when there is a stay outside the borders of the Republic of Poland... These rules will facilitate the functioning of the companies. In our view, this is also an incentive for entrepreneurs who are considering today the possibility of involving funds in order to operate in the territory of the Republic. Such an incentive, which concerns precisely the easier possibilities, which is lower costs... Because videoconferences or teleconferences are in practice saved money, savings because there is no need to go to the place where the company's authorities are located so that the meeting can take place. As Senator Ambrozik spoke well here, this bill was supported during the committee's work and I thank you very much. Thank you for these kind voices expressed in relation to this law. Of course, I am asking the High House to support the bill submitted by your President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u77	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute's query to the President's representative related to the item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you, Minister. Thank you very much. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? I invite Minister Piebiak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u78	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am pleased to confirm what the rapporteur and then Minister Mucha gave: that the government's position on this bill is positive, as were the positive positions taken by the Sejm and then the committee. And I hope that this position will also be taken by the High House today. Indeed, it is a project that meets the needs of entrepreneurs. The litigated minor shortcomings, those contained in the letter, in the government's position of 17 April, have been eliminated in the course of the legislative work. So that today I can fully sign this bill, representing the government on behalf of the Minister of Justice. This is another law, which I think meets the needs of entrepreneurs, Polish entrepreneurs, and foreign investors who operate here in Poland. It reduces costs, simplifies action. Yesterday I had the pleasure of presenting the High House's dematerialisation law, also adopted by all political forces, unanimously supported. Before that, there was a simple joint stock company, which was mentioned by the Minister. I think it's such a good package. And I can thank the President, on behalf of the government, for being involved in this process of reforming the Polish economic environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u79	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you. Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. I'm informing you that no one... No, no, I'm checking in. Oh, I'm sorry, Mr. Senator. I didn't understand. I thought you'd been asking questions before. No, no. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'll be very brief. In fact, I confirm that this is a good law that meets the needs of entrepreneurs. But since I have already been called here by name, I would just like to tell Senator Ambrozik that it is not so that even the opposition. Simply when a good bill happens, the opposition will be happy to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u81	Thank you very much for this declaration, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Robert Mammothov made his speech in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the meeting... We proceed with the examination of the item on the 21st agenda: the act on the provision of social services by the social services centre. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1240 and the report of the Commission − in print No 1240 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Richard Majer, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u82	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Gentlemen of Ministers! I am pleased to present a report from 2 committees which worked on 30 July on the Social Services Act by the Social Services Centre. It was the presentation of the President of the Republic of Poland. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! The aim of the law adopted by the Sejm is to develop and integrate the system of social services at local level and to ensure greater availability of these services. The Act provides for the optional setting up of a social service centre by the municipalities concerned acting alone or under intergovernmental agreements. The activities carried out by social services centres are intended to combine social support, organised according to the principle of selectivity and addressed to the most vulnerable people and families, and social support of a general nature with services offered to all concerned residents, while the provision of social services as universal access services and the use of support is not linked to the acquisition of the status of a customer of social assistance. Ladies and gentlemen, the objectives of social policy are social security, social peace, social security and personal development. In principle, the law. as we talked about it at the meeting of the Joint Committees It consumes these goals. We are dealing, dear people, with a groundbreaking act for the social policy system in solving social problems, because it is very clearly in line with social expectations and what we see in the social policy system. It is so that since the 1990s, various methods of working, helping and solving social problems have been tested in social policy - from an individual case method in the 1990s, through family support through district family support centres, to solutions that activate whole groups in the form of a local activity centre. The extension of this model to activate the local community in the implementation of these services is precisely the President's initiative to set up a social services centre, but not in a mandatory way, but in an optional way, i.e. where local authorities will mature to replace the social services centre or to set up a social services centre next to it. One novelty is the possibility of creating this centre in the form of an inter-city unit, when the municipalities come to the conclusion that one social service centre will be able to operate 2 municipalities or more better and more effectively. This is, Dear Sirs, important if you consider, among others. the possibilities and limitations of the social assistance system. Then one social assistance centre will be a more humane unit and will be able to carry out the tasks imposed more effectively. There are many tasks in the catalogue, but really they will depend largely on the social services programme, which will be adopted at the municipal level. The efficiency and scope of the centre's activities offer at the municipal level the opportunity to better reach the local community, to solve social problems more effectively and, as it seems, a more active social policy at this lowest level. Among other things, there is one thing that goes on here. about reaching people with disabilities at the municipal level. Inclusion of tasks from other fields, including in the field of combating unemployment, culture, sport and tourism, it will also be possible, if the municipality in the social services programme will programme such solutions. So the formula of this social service centre in the image of the projector is very wide and can actually be very, flexibly adapted to local needs of the community or district environment. Act by its nature On the one hand, innovative and optional It did not appear to the committee members, the senators were controversial and supported by committees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u83	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you. This bill was introduced by the President. Paweł Mucha was authorised to present the President's position in the course of parliamentary work. Would the President's representative like to take the floor on the bill under consideration and present the President's position? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u84	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! As the report rightly puts it, this is an important presidential initiative, one can say, another step towards reform or ensuring universal access to certain categories of social services and the integration of social services. This is a law, which has been prepared for many months as part of the work of the President's Office of the Republic of Poland, which received the support of local government entities, which cooperated very closely with us, also within the framework of the Local Government Review Team. I thank you very much for the support given to this law at the meeting of the two committees there that all the senators participating in the meeting of the two committees supported this presidential initiative. I want to thank you for your support. I am convinced that this law is, on the one hand, a mapping of a certain reflection, which is a reflection in depth, scientific, and, on the other hand, a mapping of the very good practices that arise when it comes to the integration of social services in the countries of Western Europe. The law was created in cooperation with the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy in particular. Thank you for your cooperation and support. We also talked about this at the committee meeting that social services centres as a new organizational unit, in terms of the system, can count on kindness It will be possible to support the government's resources or the EU funds of the local authorities that will want to benefit from this legal capacity in the form of the establishment of the Centre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u85	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute's query to the President's representative related to the item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you, then, Minister. Thank you very much. The Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Yes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u86	Dear Marshal, High Senate! The Council of Ministers welcomed the presidential bill on social services centres. In the opinion of the government, this project meets, as has already been said, social expectations, especially the expectations of local governments. There are no instruments in the current legal process that would allow these social services to be combined in a comprehensive way within a single institution. In some urban centres, local service centres have been set up, which already present this approach, but they are only selected elements from the full spectrum of social policy. This is a step in the right direction, but the legal foundation was missing. The President's project fills this gap. Doubts, questions in the course of very good cooperation in the process have been resolved and our proposals for amendments have been taken into account. In addition to Minister Fly's statement, I would like to add that we really want to be involved with European funds, I stress the pilot implementation of the law in selected municipalities of different sizes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u87	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm just gonna get better because I didn't say hello to you... We have the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Mr Kazimierz Kuberski. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Then thank you very much, Minister. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-fifth of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Police, the Law on Border Guard and the Law on Prison Service. The text of the law is contained in print No. 1241, and the report of the committee In print No 1241 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u88	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Senate! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present to the High House a report by the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions on the Law on the Amendment of the Police Act, the Border Guard Act and the Prison Service Act adopted by the Sejm on 19 July 2019. On 30 July, a committee was held on which Minister Paweł Mucha, representing President Andrzej Duda, presented the principles of the bill. I'll give you a brief description. The law serves the constitutional value of the trade union pluralism, grants freedom to the union coalition of police officers, Border Guards and Prison Service, i.e. formations in which the principle of federal monarchy is currently in force. It should be stressed that international agreements defining restrictions on trade union freedoms referred to in Article. 59 (1) (a) 4 of the Constitution, leave the legislator a decision on freedom of association in police services. The union's pluralism applies, among others. in Germany, Norway, France and the Czech Republic. In view of the tasks of the services covering security and public order, the law, by introducing trade union pluralism, provides for certain restrictions on trade union activities. These include among others: exclusion of union protection of executives. It is a regulation excluding the union protection of a member of the management board of a trade union organisation provided for in the Trade Union Act, in the event of an officer taking a management position, and a narrowing of the activities of inter-company trade union organisations exclusively to a given formation. The restrictions introduced fall within the standard set by the Constitution and international agreements. As explained at the committee's meeting, the work on the bill included consultations, among others. the President's meeting with the President of the Social Dialogue Council, Mrs Dorota Gardias, who is also the President of the Trade Union Forum, and the President's meeting with the members of the Bureau of the Social Dialogue Council, which dealt exclusively with issues covered by the Act. There was also a meeting at the President's Office with representatives of trade unions operating in the services on the bill. Moreover, in connection with the legislative initiative for the introduction of the Land pluralism in the Police, consultations on this issue were also carried out earlier. During their position, the trade unions operating in uniform formations, the NSZZ Trade Union Forum, Solidarity and OPZZ presented their position. The Senate Legislative Office stated in its opinion that it did not see any legislative shortcomings in the Act. At the committee meeting, the position on the bill was presented by the deputy Ombudsman, Dr. Hanna Machinska. In the Ombudsman's opinion, the material covered by the Act constitutes a sphere which is clearly a matter for the officers They choose the trade unions, the trade unions they want to belong to. The Ombudsman pointed out that, in many formations, trade union pluralism is a standard. According to the Ombudsman, the bill's request for separation of trade union and management functions is correct. The Ombudsman does not see any conflict with Article in this respect. 59 constitutions that stand for union freedoms or international agreements. Their position on the bill was then presented by representatives of trade unions. In the opinion of representatives of NSZZ Police officers and NSZZ Border Guard officers and the Union of Professional Officers and Prison Workers, no social dialogue took place. In the opinion of the trade union party, the regulations adopted are an attempt to break down strong trade unions operating in services, and only professional unions can prevent politicalisation. It was also argued that trade union monarchy offsets the lack of right to strike. These unions have requested that the bill be rejected. The solutions contained in the Act were supported by the Council of Ministers. The government's position has been highlighted, among others. the fact that trade union pluralism is in force in the Customs and Treasury Service, whose officers, like police officers, have the means of direct coercion and the possibility of interfering in the sphere of individual rights. The pluralism of the union does not affect the way this service works. The motion to reject the law in its entirety, justified by the argument raised by the trade union party, and therefore the need to safeguard the apoliticality and not to enter into competition between the unions, was submitted by Senator Alexander Pociej. Senator Grzegorz Napieralski called for the work to be postponed and the debate once again, justifying the time in which the bill is proceded and the nature of the matter covered. With regard to this, the President's representative, Minister Mucha, pointed out that the parties' positions were unambiguous and that the extension of the debate would not change them, and that the procedure of the law is justified by the need for the introduction of federal pluralism in uniform services. The Commission, after considering the law, did not accept the proposal to reject it and decided to adopt the law without amendments, 4 Senators were against, 2 Senators were against. I therefore request, on behalf of the committee, that this law be adopted without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u89	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to ask the minority rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Aleksander Pociej, to present a proposal for a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u90	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Indeed, at the end of this term, I often present my thesis when you are in session. That's what I'm happy about. Unfortunately, Senator Mikołajczyk has done his duty so well that I will only be able to repeat these charges, but I will repeat them. During this meeting, the voice of representatives of four trade unions sounded very strongly, who stressed the achievements of their 30 years of union activity and the fact that so far this model has worked practically without criticism. That's what they came up with. If something works well, taking risks to make it work better is a mistake. On the basis that better is very often the enemy of good. They emphasized that the functioning of only professional unions protects the apoliticality of uniform formations, and cited in their defense the fact that these services, especially the police, are extremely important in the public opinion. They asked us: if it is that we act well, then why the change? The answer to this question from the unionists was this: this is revenge for the strikes... sorry, not for the strikes, but for the demonstrations, because, of course, there can be no strikes. This is revenge for the demonstrations that forced the government to sign agreements. Yesterday, during the conversation with me about another point, about the guard, Minister Zieliński tried to explain that there were no demonstrations at all. I brought the video from those demonstrations last October just in case. [[Senator Aleksander Pociej plays a video recording on the tablet]] Those demonstrations were. It is true that the coincidence, the coincidence of this initiative with the victory of the unionists in the fight against the government is puzzling. I'm going back to the issue of apoliticity. Trade unionists emphasized that trade unions, civil unions, as they call them, have a very strong political affiliation in Poland. The solidarity is affiliated to the Law and Justice, they emphasized it, these are their words, I'm just quoting them. On the other hand, OPZZ is affiliated to the Democratic Left Alliance. They warned that this change would lead to the politicisation of trade union disputes because of its obvious competitiveness. Moreover, they also said that there were no signals from officers about such a need, the need for these 4 services to increase the number of relationships in these services, that there were no such speeches from officers with a demand for pluralism, because here is something wrong. No. On the contrary, they emphasized their effectiveness and the fact that no one in Poland today... There were neither such charges 12 years ago, nor are there serious allegations at the moment that these formations are politicized. The trade unionists emphasized that this is the case, among others. Thanks to their actions. For all these reasons, they asked for this initiative to be rejected as an initiative of an evil, corrupting state and capable of corrupting uniformed services through politicisation. For this reason, a minority made such a request. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u91	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Shark? I will address the question directly to the Minister. Good. Then thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the president. Paweł Mucha was authorised to present the President's position in the course of parliamentary work. Would the President's representative like to take the floor on the bill under consideration and present the President's position? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u92	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Following the comprehensive report by Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk, there is little to add, so I would have to refer more to the few comments that were made in support of the minority proposal presented by Senator Pociej. There's no way to agree with that argument. Starting with the points of order, it must be noted that we are not talking about 4 services, we are talking about 3 services. We're talking about the police, the Border Guard and the Prison Service. And we're talking, in simplest terms, about breaking the principle of union monarchy. Today the situation is that in these three cases there is a monopoly of one, the only trade union that operates within the police, the Border Guard or the Prison Service. In the meantime, as the rapporteur has rightly said, there is a certain constitutional value expressed in the text of the article. 59 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland is trade union pluralism, this trade union pluralism, which is based precisely on freedom of association. As far as international legal conditions are concerned, in the case of the police, it would be possible, in accordance with International Labour Organisation Convention No 87, to imagine also such a solution that there is no trade union at all in the police. But since we're talking about the fact that there's a trade union there, I don't see any rational arguments for it to be the only trade union, because this solution is not justified, because there are no reasonable arguments to support the maintenance of federal monarchy. Another point is that it is those relationships which today have this type of monopolistic status that obviously do not agree to a change of law in this area. whether they are denying it or trying to discourage the High House from doing so. It's just that I'm gonna pay attention to a few circumstances. First of all, the whole presidential initiative is based on the notification or presentation of the social side. It was the social side that asked for this change of law. And it's not just that... Because I am very far from value and determination which trade unions are supposed to be affiliated to certain political parties, because I do not agree with this kind of opinion. Besides, if we were to look for such affiliations, we could also identify the Trade Union Forum as an entity that was involved, by our organisations, including the trade unions that are associated with it, in specific electoral actions. And these are known compounds. But if we are already talking on the basis of the Social Dialogue Council Act about these three representative trade union organisations, it is true that the Independent Self-Governmental Trade Union (Solidarity) is in favour of the trade union pluralism in this matter, and the National Trade Union Agreement in 2017 in writing was in favour of trade union pluralism. Thus, in contrast to the perspective, it can be said that only the Trade Union Forum, in which the Trade Union Forum is confederated with these monopolistic trade union organisations today, is opposed to this change of law. And the fact that today there is a high level of trust in the Polish Police, Border Guard, Prison Service, in my opinion it is clear from the professionalism of these services, from the professionalism of the actions of officers, commanders, and also from appropriate supervision. The issue of federal monarchy has nothing to do with professionalism and social trust. Those officers who today hold high positions within the framework of monopolistic trade unions say: we do not support this change of law. And I understand this argument in such subjective terms, from the perspective of the one who makes it. However, it would absolutely not be possible to say that this change is unfavourable from the perspective of the officers. On the other hand, officers have the freedom to choose: whether I am joining a newly formed trade union or if I am in the one that so far operates. Senator Aleksander Pociej spoke here about the issue of assessing the activities of the trade unions that have been operating so far. It is not the result of any change in the status of a member of any trade union. If anyone wants to continue to function, act in the NSZZ Police Department, it will continue to function in this trade union. This change of law only gives the opportunity to create new organisations there. And let us be perfectly honest: the argument concerning trade unions is also incorrect. Well, all those who rise up will be industrial in the sense that they're going to be focusing police officers, whether they're Border Guard officers or the Prison Service. It was very clearly stated that it would not be above the structure in terms of the specificity of the formation... The trade union pluralism is a value for which some of the countries in this room have been fighting in Poland since 1980. It must be said quite frankly, with regard to rhetoric or arguments raised by these unions, which today operate on the principle of monism, that during this transitional transition period, after 1989, it was not the solidarity side that had a direct impact on issues related to force resorts. We remember what the outcome of the round table was, who then had a decisive voice in this sphere for a long time. I absolutely do not deny what the unions do today, which operate in the Border Guard, in the Prison Service or in the Police. But I cannot agree to the formulation of allegations of politicalisation or lack of professionalism, because these are completely incorrect and false arguments. No one changes the rule which, of course, imposes a ban on police officers on political activity, the requirement of apoliticity. This remains the same. And making a plea that there will be a confrontation between protesters from one relationship or another... Well, in practice today... Such situations have happened in the past. It happened that there were policemen on one side, and on the other side there was a protest of union activists who were concentrated in the Trade Union Forum. ♪ And never ♪ Just because of the professionalism of the Polish police There were no allegations that the police behave differently depending on whether it is a Solidarity protest, an OPZZ or a Trade Union Forum. So raising this argument by union members unfortunately... I do not want to say that it offends Polish officers, but it is the result of some misunderstanding or excessive rhetoric when it comes to defending monopolistic status. I am convinced that this change of law is rational and justified. There were examples of France, Belgium, Norway, Germany, the Czech Republic. Where trade union pluralism is involved, this does not adversely affect security issues. For me there is no doubt, given the pragmatism of the service, that the absolute priority for officers of the Polish Police, Prison Service or Border Guard is and will be the security of the state, the safety of citizens. Professionalism of these services Here I bow my forehead It is absolutely very high and we are all very positive about the activities of these formations. Today we are discussing only one issue: if we allow trade unions to function, should it be a trade union monopoly, or should it be pluralism? Plus, let's bring in this discussion. There are especially monopolistic union activists today Who say, "We want the monopoly of the Land." Well, I respect that view. However, when I examine the matter objectively and rationally, I do not see any reason to say that this monopoly is some value in itself, which we should defend at all costs. The request of the social side to introduce trade union pluralism is, in my opinion, absolutely rational and acceptable. Anyway, about these international conditions... Convention 87, but also the recommendations of the International Labour Organisation Freedom Committee, provide positive examples of those countries where trade union pluralism has been ensured. So I would go down with this rhetoric to a rational level of discussion: monism and pluralism... And in the context of such a dichotomy, whether monosm or pluralism, I would say: "Absolutely the arguments are in favour of accepting trade union pluralism. I therefore ask, in accordance with this position, which, moreover, was adopted by the committees and which the rapporteur proposed, for the adoption of a draft law submitted by the President on the amendment of the Police Act, the Border Guard Act and the Prison Service Act. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u93	Thank you very much, Minister. Yes? Two more questions. Good. Mr Sylvester Tułaev, representative of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, would you like to speak? No, thank you. Good. Thank you very much. That's the question now. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute's request to the representative of the President relating to the item on the agenda. Senator Grażyna Shark and Senator Piotr Florek. You're welcome, Senator. And then the senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u94	Thank you very much. Minister, as an old trade unionist, I remember that when we registered the NSZZ Statute on 17 April 1989, we deliberately excluded uniformed services, but also individual farmers, and there were these registrations separately. Except uniformed services have been registered for a longer period of time. These are the same services, and the uniforms themselves have developed a model for the creation of these trade unions. And my question is, don't you think that the bottom-up trade union movement and the bottom-up trade unions are exactly what we had in mind in 1980 and 1989? Is the imposition of solutions as it is now, contrary to the views of trade unions, the creation of a new law to facilitate or rather to make it more difficult? Isn't that something? I don't want to say it. . The test shall be the politicalisation of the creation of new trade unions?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u95	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Piotr Florek. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u96	Thank you. Minister, why is this the President's initiative? What was the reason for the president's speech with this initiative? Has anyone approached the President for such an initiative? If so, who? And, Minister, I would like to know a little bit about this position of the board of dialogue, because it was about the fact that the board of dialogue was heard. But was there any position of the board of dialogue on this matter? Did the unions in uniform also speak, and if so, what was the opinion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u97	Senator Mammy. After this series of questions, I will give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u98	Thank you very much, Marshal. At first, I have to correct myself as an old union man. In 1980, we did not assume that the trade unions would be in the police. But not because we didn't want it, just because the police... They didn't, of course. That's what she didn't want. At the time, the regime didn't want that. [[Applause]] Yeah, that's it. I think in Militia... But now I'm talking, I'm so sorry. I'd like to ask the Minister if you see a threat somewhere that we're going to impose some new trade unions on the police. If there are people who want to wear them, they'll wear them, and we're just giving them the opportunity. I'd like you to take that into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u99	Thank you very much. Minister, you are hereby voted in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u100	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I'll address these questions one at a time. Of course, you are telling senator Mammoths that there is no imposition. Well, there's a mechanism of absolute freedom. That's right. He means that a police officer makes a conscious decision whether he wants to be a member of any trade union at all, and if so, which trade union. And we're saying... I was talking about a constitutional value of union pluralism. You know this country from your union business. There may be different conditions for the functioning of one, the only trade union, also different personal conditions or different reasons why an official, in a given case, having only a monopolistic trade union, does not decide to join a trade union. The result of the change of law, as I said, is no automation, i.e. After all, no one by definition is assigned to any trade union, has the possibility of conscious decision, choice: I function in the existing trade union, I was not a member of any trade union and I will not, I join a newly formed union. These are perfectly natural things. So it must be said that this model of the creation of trade unions, as Senator Grażyna Sztark asked, is absolutely any model, also in accordance with the provisions of the Trade Union Act. And I don't see any imposition of any kind of will here. I already talked about it, answering Senator Flork's question. Of course it was the social side that called for this initiative. You're asking me where this came from. Well, that's because of the social side. That is, none other than the unionists have asked such a request or a proposal to consider it. Moreover, the case is not new, because in 2017 the introduction of the Land pluralism was discussed as a rational request. There was also a question about RDS, so I'll repeat... As part of the representative headquarters, 2 headquarters with 3 are in favour of pluralism, these are OPZZ and Solvency. As far as the Trade Union Forum is concerned, you are asking how the relationships that so far exist... I'd say it's logically necessary that those who are monopolisists today, well... I am able to imagine that they could behave in some way over-standard and they could say: yes, we support the introduction of the Land pluralism. But life is only life, so they say: no, we are in favour of union monism, we want to be the only ones who speak. But, ladies and gentlemen, the interests of the officers are decisive here. Not the interests of the management of certain trade unions, but the interests of the officers. Knowing the union sensitivity of Senator Sztark and absolutely looking straight in the eye, I say: yes, we consciously brought this project in the interest of police officers, in the interest of border guards officers, the Prison Service, in the name of freedom of choice and freedom of decision as to whether or not they are involved in a specific process. With regard to the dialogue on this issue, of course, there was a request made by Dorota Gardias, president of the Trade Union Forum, who has a double role today because she is president of the Trade Union Forum and at the same time acts as President of the Social Dialogue Council... So there was a meeting, and the president spoke directly to the president. Then, at the request of the President, another meeting took place, at which the President of the Republic of Poland, Andrzej Duda, invited members of the RDS bureau, could be heard there, and this meeting was devoted only to this issue. And there, the voice of the President of Gardias, who simply said that she was speaking as President of the Trade Union Forum, was the absolute opposite of this change, given the position of the union of uniformed services. And it was very widely discussed. I personally also met with the Presidential Palace with the heads of these trade unions, which today function in these three formations. And to be perfectly honest, as I answered Senator Grzegorz Napieralski's questions at the committee meeting, it seems to me that this view of relationships here is quite clear and unambiguous. Those who function are in favour of maintaining union monarchy. And with regard to the demands of the social side, most unionists are in favour of the introduction of pluralism. Officers, we hear these voices. They're also in favour of introducing pluralism. And the officers themselves will make the decisions. So you can say this: after the entry into force of the law, of course, if the Senate agrees with it, it is the officer who will decide what the scale of the impact of these rules is in practice. No one's gonna write anyone out of any relationship. I think the threads that Senator Mammoth also touched, I explained in a comprehensive way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u101	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski would like to ask a question. Senator Shark, too, right? Good. And Mr. Peter Florek. Good. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u102	I wasn't supposed to ask any questions, but since Senator Sztark pointed out this independence of the organization, I would like to remind you that the Solidarity of Individual Farmers was still fighting in 1980, 1981, and she fought a great fight to be separate so as not to be together with the unions, including. It was successful, though, after the great battles. But I don't want to go back to history. Also after 1989, we had a normal right, as the bill resulted in... And I think it's the big fight that went on in the so-called. a trilateral dialogue committee After being converted into the Social Dialogue Council, it was the representativeness of the organisation. But that doesn't mean closing the road for other organizations. I am very pleased when I hear that the Trade Union Forum has the representativeness of this in the Council that the organizations have it. But it's okay for them to be created and others to be representative of the Council of Social Dialogue. Well, I don't see the need to block anything, I think the servants, the officers, aren't thinking that they're being blocked off. There are dozens of farmers' organizations and no one's defending it. In other industries, I suspect, it's similar. Therefore, I do not understand this protest, although I understand that as head of the trade union, it is easier for me to discuss... Question. I would like to know if the Minister confirms that there is a representative organization in the Council of Dialogue, which is an independent police union.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u103	Thank you very much. Senator Shark.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u104	Thank you very much. Question for two senators. Of course, gentlemen, you confirm. Nobody even dreamed in 1980 that the police or uniformed services would have their representatives in the form of trade unions. Of course... Yeah, no one's dreaming. They did, they did. Illegal. But we know what it is. Ladies and gentlemen! We know what it is. Mr. Senator, we don't have to find out here. I'm talking about the actual representation that was created after 1989. The fight between individual farmers was just as long. I'm talking about that representativeness. Minister, the point is... that was our confirmation, too. We weren't very interested in registering the NSZZ Statute for Solidarity, because it brought all the employees together. The union had the opportunity to bring all the employees together, so there was strength in this statue. And there was a fear of power to... Question, Senator. That is why I ask whether it is not the will of the legislator or the representative of the legislator to bring about the break-up of trade unions to weaken them. I believe that's the concern of the trade unions. Minister, I'll just remind you of a fairly long battle between the Border Guard Unions... Senator, you're already making such a free speech. Good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u105	Question's been answered. Good. I'm signing up again. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u106	Thank you. We're talking, Minister, about the specific service, the uniform service. As far as trade unions are concerned, trade unions will always be willing to create their organisational cells in uniform services, but the purpose of the trade union in the police was to ensure that the police were not politicised. I think it's worked so far. Such an idea was based on the environment of solidarity, as these relationships were created. Today we can say that the police have high ratings for uniformed services, especially the police I would like to draw attention to here. It's been 30 years. Minister, aren't you afraid that the introduction of this amendment, this bill, will, however... Even though there's pluralism here, we know that these compounds will rise. There's no question about that. But will this not lead to a politicisation of the police? Thank you. It's the last one.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u107	Senator, it's already been tour.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u108	No. I'm just trying to tell you. Isn't that punishment? If I had the opportunity to finish... I'm talking about the trade unions operating in the Border Guard. There were exemptions under a law that, in our opinion or in my opinion, was not legal. Trade union officers were also released there. Isn't that for that... They're being punished today.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u109	Thank you very much. Minister, you are hereby voted in. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u110	I answer questions one at a time. Senator Chróścikowski asked about the Social Dialogue Council. Of course, the NSZZ Policemen or the Federation of Uniform Services in general concern 3 formations by confederation within the Forum of Trade Unions, because the forum is in the composition of the RDS. Even the President of the Forum is President of the RDS today. According to my knowledge and memory, also gentlemen who operate in the NSZZ Police Department... Mr Jankowski is also a member of the Social Dialogue Council, so this representation is of course. The Act does not modify the principles which are expressed in the Act on the Council of Social Dialogue. Is it any punishment, or are we trying to break anything? This is no punishment and we do not seek to break down any union structure. It is absolutely the case that the status of each trade unionist is preserved today, and it is the will of the officer to decide whether he is still a member, whether he is present, whether he is forming a new relationship. We don't have a full connection either, you know. The union is quite high, but it is still the case that a large number of officers are not members of any trade union. She can now decide if she wants to change her status. The answer to the question was also a little bit contained in Senator Flork's statement, because you were talking about the specifics of the service, and it was extremely accurate. We also need to pay attention to the content of the vows that officers are taking. There's official pragmatism, there's vows, there's an order. These are formations that operate according to a specific framework in terms of their specific role and function in the country. So I absolutely accept that anyone who joins the police, the Border Guard or the Prison Service is aware of the importance of the service he will perform or the fullness of it. And I don't see any threats. As regards these solutions, you are also talking about social trust. Today, for example, we have union pluralism in the State Fire Department, and trust in firefighters is record-breaking due to the professionalism of the action. But if we're talking about referencing this to armed formations, then we have an example of Customs and Carving Service, which is also a uniformed, armed, with certain competences, very broad. There is union pluralism and there is no politicalisation. On the contrary, I think that if you look at the statistics here and if you also refer to the statements of the Minister of Finance, previously acting as the head of the National Tax Administration... You must note that this is a formation that is working very effectively, very effectively today and that trade union pluralism is introduced there. So I do not share these concerns. I don't see any danger in terms of the functioning of the formation. And I am convinced that this is simply a mapping of what is contained in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, in the article. 59, i.e. allowing freedom of union coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u111	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to ask the Minister a question? I don't see any calls. Minister, thank you very much. Thank you very much. And now I should turn to Minister Sylvester Tulayev, but I understand that Minister... I'll say it was exhausting. I understand, exhausting. Good. But I have another question to ask. At present, senators may submit questions to the Minister for Government. I understand there won't be any such questions, so thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I'd like to speak with Marshal Michael Sewerinski. Mr. Marshal, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u112	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! I have to speak because since yesterday, since the day before yesterday, I've been in a growing amazement about this case. For the first time, this amazement began to manifest in me when I heard at the committee meeting, how experienced union activists, experienced politicians, experienced lawyers I'm looking at Senator Pociej, my friend, and they were worried that in this bill we're restoring incomplete, but much broader union freedom in the police and other uniformed services sector. If only I'd told my students. And I'm gonna have to tell them next year. I'm sure they'd listen very carefully. So let the old professor who has been working for years in union law remind you of certain obvious facts. Union freedom was already recognised at the beginning of the last century as one of the fundamental freedoms, as a fundamental human right and as such was incorporated into the Constitution of the International Labour Organisation. It is this year that it is 100 years since the creation of the ILO on the basis of the Treaty of Versailles. The constitutions of many democratic countries have reiterated the Constitution of the International Labour Organisation as one of the fundamental civil rights of the country. Yes, the Special Convention on Freedom of Union, ILO Convention No 87 allowed the possibility of restricting this freedom or even total exclusion in the military, and restrictions on police services. Let us remember what these were and what limitations they were. First of all, it's one trade union. The convention does not say this, it simply says that the country can choose the form of limitation and ban on strike, the lack of the right to strike. And this limitation is being reduced today, which is a narrowing down, partial repeal, because it is said that in police and related services there will be more than one trade union, that is, there will be more union freedom. The consequence of such a provision will undoubtedly be trade union pluralism, but this is the consequence of trade union freedom. I'll remind you again. 'Cause maybe not everyone remembers. That when martial law was abolished and when the first union law was passed, passed by the communists, that was where the union monarchy was. It was said that trade unions could be rebuilt, but there could be no more than one organisation in one work place. This limitation so far operates in the police and related structures, but that's because Convention No 87 allows it. Of course there could be competition. The natural consequence of the multiplicity of trade unions is competition. And, more, it may even be that individual trade unions will show some political sympathy. I do not want to give a long lecture here, but examples of different countries show that this has been the case. You can't avoid that. Moreover, the existing trade union law does not prohibit trade unions from exercising their political activities. Relationships that get too involved in this, sooner or later lose their right to be. In fact, it's the most effective protection against trade union politics. So, ladies and gentlemen, we are slowly returning to what is full of union freedom. The fact that in relationships that now exist, there is a fear that maybe they won't be the only ones anymore, and they won't take advantage of this special situation, that they're the only representation... That's right, that's right. It's gonna be harder, but maybe it'll make it stronger. Well, let's think for a second, ladies and gentlemen: are we not even falling into a kind of a "I don't hesitate to say so"? Funny? What are you protesting? Against extending union freedom? I can't believe it. I encourage you to get out of this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator Piotr Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u114	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! I don't agree with my previous speaker. Of course, we're all in favour of freedom of union. That's not in any doubt. But there are situations... There are organisations that perform a specific function. And this union freedom doesn't always have to be complete. We're talking about specific services, that is, uniformed services. You're laughing now... Because you're censoring... Why don't you tell me why there's no union in the military? Why don't you answer the question about why there's no union in the military? I'd love it if you could step outside the door. Quiet, please. Quiet, please. Ladies and gentlemen, therefore, of course we can say that this solution, which was in Poland... We can discuss whether it is good or whether it can actually introduce pluralism. That's what you think. I think the Minister's intentions are good, but the effects can, of course, be quite different. And that's where we differ in our views. I'm just saying that we're different in our views, nothing more, because I don't think so. I believe that the amendment of this law will lead to the politicisation of uniformed services. I'm thinking especially about the police I've had more contacts with. There was a tradition... There are different solutions in Europe. You talked about Germany, Norway, the fact that there is pluralism, but there are also countries where there is no pluralism, there is no obligation. It could be like this, so let's not laugh, let's not say that if it's like this in one country, then it has to be the same for us. He doesn't have to. We have an opinion on that. In Poland since 1990 there has been such a tradition, there has been peace, there have been no problems with this title, and now suddenly we come out with the law and we say that we need to introduce pluralism. Of course, members willing to run trade unions are about to find themselves, and I am convinced that these unions will rise in these uniformed services. But there are traditions, and that is what happened in Poland. Recently, the Minister of Infrastructure spoke about tradition in Poland. I mean, as I was talking about pedestrian crossings, about the fact that there is such a tradition in the West, that when someone approaches a pedestrian crossing, cars stop, the Minister said that there is no such tradition in Poland. Well, there aren't, but there are more people who die in walkways. We can tell you what our traditions are. So it has been so with us so far with regard to this trade union pluralism that the number of relationships was limited to this one. And the question is, was it good or bad? Well, our opinions differ in this respect. I'm just gonna point out one thing from my experience. There was a situation that the NSZZ-Solidarity... I remember a few thousand people protesting under the office where I worked, breaking windows, throwing screws at cops, etc. And now I have a question about how this is gonna work if these union guys... in uniform... You can't, of course, talk about those three services that the Minister was talking about... Not to mention that the Fire Department is also a uniformed service, but a bit specific, because they go to accidents, they put out fires, etc., and maybe it looks a little different. But when it comes to police activity, I don't really imagine those protestors breaking windows or throwing screws at colleagues who were in the same relationship. I have some doubts whether, if there is one relationship that is completely independent of what I hear, these relationships are concentrated in the Trade Union Forum, there are some trade unions, which is the police, there is Fire Department in the forum, as I recall... The question is whether these uniformed services will be able to take a position together, e.g. in defense of uniform services, etc. That's what I'm thinking. We differ in approach here. I'm just talking about my sentence, but I don't think it's just my opinion, because I hear that there were union voices from different sides, that this change is completely unnecessary, there was no need, but since it is, it is. Finally, I would like to say that I believe, as many people believe, that this change will, after all, lead to the politicisation of uniformed services, and I am thinking particularly about the police. Was that change needed? Well, as it turns out, it's the president's initiative, and the president's the one with the initiative. Apparently, someone turned to the president with this initiative. It was not a government initiative, the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, and there are doubts about this. I believe that this is an unnecessary, unnecessary initiative, it is a political uniform service, therefore, that is my opinion, and it can be disagreed with, and I will also vote against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u115	Thank you very much. Senator Aleksander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u116	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Minister Mucha used these words twice: if I were a monopoly, I wouldn't want to either. My lawyer's soul is stuck with such a rhetorical expression. First of all, Minister, this monism was a result of something. After all, it is possible to find out what the arguments were for having one union in these services. And then it wasn't those people's choice either. It just happened. Is it gonna get better, or is it gonna get worse? I'm sure Marshal Seweryński is right when he says that the wider this union representation, the better it is in general. And I don't argue with that. I'm just saying and I have this feeling. There's something completely different behind this change. That this is a political plan. And here I will draw attention to the experience of discussions with teachers. This is not the case with the "Solidarity." It was easier to talk, wasn't it? Well, I'm sorry to say so. The experience of life and some kind of logical dissection of reality tells me that someone has come to their senses and decided to introduce the exact same element. In the future, it will be easier to discuss if the solidarity is on the other side. And because we... The authorities at the moment are closer to "Solidarity," which in some sense confirms the Minister, saying: the social side came and asked. It has to be called "Solidarity" and she has come and asked. And suddenly it turns out that after 30 years of operation of the above-mentioned law and mechanism, as.Solidarity will ask And he's got credit for it. He's got it. And she will have another area in which she will be able to cooperate with the governing party much better than those trade unions, those monists who so shaken the streets of Warsaw that they suffocated what they wanted. And here it is no wonder, don't be surprised that we suspect that this is primarily a political game. She's based on a perfectly true thesis that Senator Sewerinski described: that theoretically it may be better. But in order to respond to some arguments, I would like to remind you: the ILO Convention states that there can be one relationship in these services as much as possible. Of course he doesn't have to. But it is said that maybe and that such a situation is not pathology, it can be beneficial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u117	Thank you, Senator. Senator Grażyna Shark.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u118	Thank you very much, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, why am I afraid that this law will actually act against the current trade union and is really created for political purposes? And it's not about regulating these union freedoms. If the government, the president, are the creators of a new bill... Yeah, that's why. If it were a bottom-up movement, if it was the union itself, they'd come up with this idea. But I'm talking about trade unions. That would be completely different. And if the government and the president do it, it reminds me of... And I'm an old union man, I was the chairman of the management board of the Koszalin region. You know, there's always been an old rule that if an employer wants to strike, it creates an extra trade union, then another and another. If these relationships couldn't get along, then the employer made his own decision. Old rule. And I think that's what this is all about. Marshal Sewerinski has an idealistic look. I believe that there are really good intentions here, but as an experienced unionist, I refer to these experiences from Koszalin. I repeat, I'm very afraid of this. It's not like the police are enjoying a high level of trust today. We know what's going on in the street, and we resent it. I myself resent seeing the kind of paintings we saw last time: the police don't intervene when the nationals beat and stop or push a photojournalist, a representative of the press. This is hardly the way to treat press or photojournalists around the world. It's not like... That's where you act on your orders. If a policeman knows that he can be rewarded for something or blamed for something, he'll probably choose a form of reward. If you have experience with the Border Guard trade unions... We remember that the trade unionists were first of all fired, and the bill was passed again. In violation of the law. She gave permission to eliminate... so that trade union workers, even pregnant women, could be fired. Ladies and gentlemen, this is against the law, but this is the law you have adopted. You've eliminated the unions and you've had your peace, but that's the way to go... Minister, I have confidence in you and I believe very strongly that the President's intentions were completely different, but I do not believe that this is all about creating or expanding trade union pluralism. I firmly believe that only strong trade unions can defend their representatives, trade unionists. If they have not only legal dilemmas, but also moral dilemmas about how to behave towards a citizen or their colleague... Senator Jerzy Czerwinski is here. You said the police never went against other union groups. Well, that was about the use of rubber bullets. Remember? They were used against the miners. And then what happened? Are the trade unions... Then trade unions are needed, then trade unions are needed to say: stop, that is not right. Yeah, also then. And it must be officers who won't be afraid, they can't be afraid. And if we create an additional five trade unions, the chief will play it very easy, because he'll create another relationship, he'll put three or four officers in front of him, and it'll be done. It will sign whether it will issue a clear decision. Ladies and gentlemen, this kind of dilemma should move us all to think that it is probably too early for such changes in the bill. Representativeness or other forms of change should be dealt with or corrected from the bottom up, not by the President or by the Government. In conclusion, I would like to say that I cannot unfortunately agree to such changes in the bill. I will vote against, only because Once again, I suspect... I'm really sure it's created only for political purposes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u119	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Mroz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u120	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I wanted to start a little differently, but the senator's speech gave me such an inspiration, but it also upset me, given that the senator herself reminded me of her experience and merit in working for a trade union, in this case the Solidarity. The first question is this. Well, the senator knows very well... As a charge, this bill is on the initiative of the President that it is supported by the government. Well, what kind of initiative is it supposed to be? In general, the legislative initiative has a government, a parliament, a president. We have heard many times in this Chamber that if the laws are tabled by Members, it is wrong. Well, now there's a bill tabled by your president who has his prerogatives. So that's one thing. Even who makes the bill, you don't like it, which, of course, is absurd. Second line. That's what the senator used to say too soon. Well, after 30 years of free Polish saying that something is too early... Yes, there were people who said that Poles did not grow up to democracy, that for us there should be some other standards. I am aware that there are various solutions in democratic countries, as my predecessors have said, including Mr Sewerinski, I am aware of that. I know that there are solutions where there is one relationship, there are solutions where there are many trade unions. We are talking about democratic countries. But let's not use such a phrase that it is too early for Poles, because it is a phrase that makes no sense. For 30 years there has been a model, and today we propose to change this model. The change in this model is proposed by the President because he had specific social signals, which means there are people in the police who want to focus on trade unions, but not necessarily in this one trade union. Whether there's one relationship or two relationships, or we don't know that. Well, in order for this trade union to be established, police officers and other services who wish to be members of the Solidarity Union or any other trade union that may arise in the Police need to gather. Today we're just giving it the opportunity not to be specific... no, not specific, let's just say it. The monopoly of one trade union. To create other relationships, there must be a desire to subscribe to them. I would like to return to this original thought that I wanted to start speaking from before my colleague appeared, namely to the point of my unwarranted fear that if there were more trade unions, there would be a politicisation of the police. I do not know on what basis the senators conclude that if there are three trade unions in the police force, the police will suddenly be politicized. Even assuming that there will be a "Solidarity." I suspect that many national trade unions will try to create their cells in the police or other services, because such ones. It's their role. Every relationship wants to grow. Why is it suddenly political, Senator? I don't get it. I'll tell you more, there are police officers who, in accordance with the law, are e.g. Councillors of the Civic Platform, PiS. Councils in the sense that they are starting with the Committee of Elections of Law and Justice or the Committee of Elections, the Civic Platform of the Republic of Poland or the SLD Committee or any other local committees. And can we say today that this is some kind of politicisation of the police? They do their civic duties and have the right to take off. Of course, they can't belong to political parties, but they can take off and strategize. In small municipalities they may still run within their own committee, but when someone wants to run for a sejm or a county, they choose some election committee. And they can legally run from the electoral committees created by political parties. Question: If someone joins a union, or some other relationship, will it be political? I think that, in general, when someone starts with a letter from some electoral committee, it might be said that this is some kind of indirect form of politicisation, but membership of the Solidarity... What kind of politics is that? Policeman or servants? Or maybe a command where some of the policemen belong to the trade unions? Dear Senator and Ladies and gentlemen, the majority of police demands due to the form of the organisation of this, in quotes, of a specific workplace is rather negotiated at national level, at trade union level. It's not like anybody's gonna negotiate raises at the level of a city police station or a voivodeship police station. Mr. Senator Pociej said here that PiS or the government had cleverly played the teachers. How'd he play? How did he play, Senators? If it hadn't been for the teacher's solidarity, the teachers wouldn't have gotten anything. No raise. And they got raises. And those who were on strike, and those who did not strike, and those who are in the trade union, and those who are in the ZNP, and those who are not in any trade union. Everyone was given specific money because one trade union signed an agreement. It didn't block the protest from other trade unions, it didn't block the strike. Otherwise, they'd be left with nothing. The promises of self-government citizens of the Civic Platform that during the strike teachers will get the money... Where'd they get hit? Where is President of Wrocław, Mr Sutryk, where is President Zdanowska, where is Mr. Trzaskowski, who promised that if teachers strike, they will pay their wages? They didn't pay out because there's no legal option. And they acted according to the law. Yes? When we talk about any politicisation, I would generally be very careful about this subject. In my opinion, the fact that someone's in some union organization has nothing to do with... I would not like to introduce a policy here, but I would say that trade unions sympathize with different governments, political parties. It's very different in industry. In general, the role of trade unions is, was... This was experienced by the governments of the Platform, the PiS and before the SLD. Probably some governments that come after the rule of law and justice will also experience that trade unions are always a demanding partner for power and for their employer. Because, as I said, trade unions often see an employer just as a government, and that's what I'm going to say for every employer, for every government, there's a challenge to deal with trade unions. Just one more point. I have to find her here because there were more. Finally, don't worry about the politicisation of trade unions in the near future in the police, because in general, thanks to the government of Law and Justice, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, I think all the things that the police community wanted were dealt with. The issue of pensions has been dealt with and the issue of increases. They're here this year, they'll be here next year. I think the unionists or police officers in general have nothing to complain about in front of Prime Minister Matthew Morawiecki's government. What you said to Marshal Sewerinski... There's gonna be more trade unions, there's gonna be some competition in these trade unions, and if it's gonna be a competition to defend workers' rights, I think police officers should be happy about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u121	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Zbigniew Silence. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u122	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The proposed law, in my opinion, deserves to be recognised, and the concerns expressed by my predecessors, especially Senator Shark, seem to me to be a concern for growth. I'm sorry I put it that way, but... Ladies and gentlemen, theoretically, anything can happen. Ladies and gentlemen, it may be that the salt will swell. Then nothing is worth it. It may be that the trade union will become a political party. It's not worth much then either. But, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot assume these dark-eyed versions of events in the future. I even believe that the inclusion of the Land pluralism here is the implementation of the general principles mentioned by my previous speaker, Professor Marshal Seweryński, speaking of the regulations of the International Labour Organisation, of all these conventions. After all, we remember what buoys were in communist times about respecting International Labour Organisation Convention 87 on Freedom of Association. This is a piece of work, a result of all these fights. Finally, we have such regulations as are in line with these conventional standards as regards the International Labour Organisation, but also with the standards of the European Convention on Human Rights, to which we joined in 1991 and which has been binding for us since 1993. Let me remind you of the contents of the article. 11 The European Convention on Human Rights, which provides for the right to associate with people, which includes the right to establish trade unions. It should also be recalled that this convention contains even certain powers to impose restrictions on certain categories of workers, especially those who perform functions in various force resorts, i.e. police officers, soldiers, etc. It entitles the State to impose restrictions, provided that they are laid down in the law and serve legitimate purposes such as behaviour. public order and security. We must admit that our country And glory for this Poland of our independent, free after 1989. It did not avail itself of the possibility to impose these restrictions. There are many countries, please, which, at the very disposal of the article. 11 The European Convention on Human Rights, which allows such restrictions to be imposed, does not allow trade unions to exist in the police. It's not here, like I said, for luck. This proposal by the President is intended to introduce trade union pluralism, which is consistent with the general principles. In fact, true democracy is only the case where there is pluralism, also in the sphere of trade unions. Of course, it doesn't interfere with the requirement that the police be apolitical. Therefore, in the article. 63 of the Police Act is a ban on a police officer belonging to a political party. It is similar in other regulations, e.g. concerning judges There's a ban out there, too. There is such a ban in some countries, there is no ban in others. Ladies and gentlemen, in our system it comes from historical experience, because in the past period, communist, there have been services with force for political purposes. Hence, there is a concern that the police should be integral, neutral and act objectively, without serving any political purpose. Therefore, I believe that this proposal, finally made by the head of the nation, the President, deserves to be accepted as much as possible. I wouldn't make any such suspicions or even conspiracy theories here that this is supposed to be a kind of gateway to the politicality of this formation, in a situation where art. 63 expressly prohibits policemen from belonging to any party. As I say, we are fulfilling these demands that serve the greater freedom of workers, because such people are also policemen, only that they remain in a special service relationship. However, they cannot reasonably be denied the right to pluralism of the Land, although, as I say, the legal basis is for this because of the article. 11 The European Convention on Human Rights offers this possibility. We've used it so far. She existed. I think the moment has come when we can give it up and, in the name of respect for those employees who are police officers, give it to them as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u123	Thank you, Senator. Senator Shark. Here you go, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u124	Thank you very much. Me in response, Mr. Senator. First of all, what I'm going to say again is that relationships are not representative, because to be representative, a sufficient number of union members are required. So if these compounds break down, they stop being representative - and that's very important. Secondly, I never said, Senator, that Poles did not grow up to democracy. Poles are born democrats, fortunately, and that is why we can stand here, have different views and talk about it, among others. That's why. Thirdly, I have spoken long enough why I fear there will be more trade unions. I'll say it again, so it's easier to play them and decide for them. I've been talking about this for a long time. Fourthly, the comparison of trade unions with councillors is also a misunderstanding, because we are talking about uniformed services and this has nothing to do with this law. Councillors don't act on orders, at least they shouldn't act on orders, and unfortunately these three services act on orders from their superiors. Unfortunately, you have confirmed my suspicion of politicisation. I'm afraid that's what you're saying, but it's made me very firm. I may be over-suspected, but that's because the government and the president are coming up with a legislative initiative. Mr. Senator, I know they have a right. The Senate has the law, the Sejm, the President, the government. I know that, but I wish it was a decision. Or a bottom-up initiative. If it were such an initiative, I wouldn't say anything, but I'm afraid it's a controlled initiative. And in conclusion - I will not use, Mrs. Marshal, 5 minutes - I can bet you that after these changes have been adopted, the trade unions will not shape new labour rights in these 3 services, but their bosses and commanders. I can take any bet. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u125	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item thirty-fifth of the agenda: the Law on the amendment of the Law. Consular law. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1267, and the report of the Commission In print No 1267 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Richard Majer, to submit a report to the committee. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u126	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Senate! I am pleased to present a report from the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union on the Law amending the consular law. The meeting took place on 30 July 2019. The aim of the Law on the amendment of the law of the Polish consular service adopted by the Sejm is to improve the operation of the Polish consular service. The most important amendments to the Act include the determination of derogations from the rules for the examination by a candidate for consular service. The Act provides for derogations from the principle that the designation for consular functions shall take place after the consular examination is passed, which shall be a test of the knowledge and practical skills of the candidate for consular officials, the necessary... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. Mr. Senator, just a second... Gentlemen of the Senators, if you need to talk... Ladies and gentlemen, please do so outside the plenary room. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator, I'm sorry, but the Senator rapporteur can't focus on that kind of noise. Excuse us. There you go. Thank you very much. The exemption from the consular examination in the light of this amendment includes 2 groups of persons: persons who are not consular officials at present but who have previously performed this function, and persons who are currently consular officials who are preparing to take up the post of consular officer in another country, provided that the gap between the date of their appointment for consular functions and the date of the successful submission of the consular examination in connection with the earlier appointment as consular officer has not exceeded 12 months. Finally, this also applies to persons who are not consular officials at present, but who have previously performed this function and have ceased to perform consular functions no later than 12 months before the date of appointment as consular officer. During the committee's meeting, the senators' questions focused on the current situation concerning the consular service. The senators evaluated the consulates and consuls they visited. No, among others. The Odesa consulate, which received senators during the observation missions, met with a high senators' assessment. As a result, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union recommends that the High Senate adopt this law without amendment in the version in which it came to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u127	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. Thank you. The draft law was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? We have Minister Marcin Addicz with us. Thank you very much, I am not going to speak at this stage, but if there are any questions, I will be happy to answer them. Thank you very much. Would any of your senators like to ask the Minister a question? No. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. There are no speakers in the discussion. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. Is this the Brazilian Mazury band? Yes. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to welcome you very warmly from Brazil. We welcome our fellow countrymen very, very cordially. [[Applause]] You have come from a very far distance, but in Polish folk costumes you really look great. Thank you for cultivating Polishness so far from home. Thank you very much and we're glad you're in the Senate. We welcome you very, very cordially. Sit down and we'll continue. We proceed with the examination of item forty-four of the agenda: the Law on the General Agricultural Census in 2020. The text of the Act is contained in print No 1275 and the report of the committee In print No 1275 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u128	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! I am very pleased on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development to report on the Act on the General Agricultural Census adopted by the Sejm on 31 July 2020. Mr Marshal has sent the bill to us, we have examined it today and we are giving the opinion to the High House that we are not making any comments and that we are asking for this law to be adopted without amendments. There was a discussion at the committee meeting, there were minor legislative comments which, according to the government, do not require changes. We therefore ask that this law be adopted without amendment. The inventory is made every 10 years. This is in line with European Union and FAO law, so that it is, in total, very necessary, because it results from a global The need to assess the situation in agriculture, in agriculture all over the world, can be said to know what further projects to take in the field of agricultural policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u129	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of you like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. To present the position of the government in the course of parliamentary work has been authorized... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, gentlemen of the Senators, please. Excuse me... ...president of the Council of Ministers. Mr. Dominik Rozkrut, President of the Central Statistical Office, is with us today. Would the President like to speak on the bill? No, I don't think I need to add anything to the senator's speech... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Gentlemen, please be quiet because I can't do this. I'm so sorry, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. President? No, we don't need to speak. Thank you. Thank you very much. At present, senators may ask no more than a minute of questions to the representative of the government relating to this item on the agenda. Are there any such questions? There isn't. Thank you. There it is. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. Mr. President, come in. Mr. President, I'd like to invite you to the podium here. There you go. Mr. President, you're welcome. And when you get here, the senator will ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u130	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Two short questions. First. A pilot inventory was foreseen in the previous agricultural census to check the methods and remedy possible deficiencies, etc. In this list ♪ I can see ♪ We're not planning on it. So we're sure that everything's gonna be okay, or we're just saying that the methods that are planned are so efficient that we don't have to do this sample inventory in a few municipalities, so let's assume? And the second question about the catalog is whether it's crops, whether it's breeding animals. It's just that these catalogs are closed, and... Let me give you an example from another census, a census, where there was, for example. The question of nationality. Well, an example far away, but a good picture of the situation. Some nationalities were mentioned, and another nationality could also be written in a dotted place. Because life is richer than we think. Also in the case of e.g. the animal is so that the question will be examined e.g. fish farming, but perhaps in Poland there are also cancers, etc., and we do not know that... I am talking about such niche issues, but I would like to know myself, just out of curiosity, where there is cancer breeding in Poland and how many such breedings are. So the question is: why are these directories closed and not opened?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u131	Okay, it's been a minute. Thank you very much. Mr. President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u132	Thank you very much, Senator, for that question. With regard to this first question, we are in the meantime carrying out, due to the accession to the European Union, such a very broad survey of the structure of agricultural holdings and they are piloting to the census. It also takes into account very detailed information about what is happening in agriculture during these inter-script periods. Moreover, methods actually allow for increasing efficiency and administrative sources, so that there is no need for piloting here. Such piloting will, of course, be in the case of the national census, but not in the case of this agricultural one. As far as the second question is concerned, the catalogue is not closed. It's... It's locked, but it's got a very wide range. It is closed, but it is as if it is very widely defined, it includes all animal species, which have the greatest economic, agricultural significance in Poland. There is no need for further details of this knowledge to the extent that the agricultural census is very extended. As part of this survey, we include a census of all agricultural holdings, so the cost of obtaining this information is very large and it would be unreasonable to blow up this scope of the matter. Well, we just have to keep an eye on the funds here and limit the cost of the inventory.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u133	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the president? No. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up for this discussion. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Are there communications? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u134	The meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union will take place immediately after the announcement of the break in room 179. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u135	Thank you very much. We're adjourned until 3:00. Thank you very much. There'll be a vote at 3:00. [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 47 to 15 minutes 00]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u136	I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators, I would like to inform you that the next eighty-fourth meeting will be convened on 30 August 2019. The order of business of this meeting will be provided to you by electronic means. We proceed with the examination of item 40 of the agenda: the appeal of the chairman of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. I would like to inform you that Senator Adam Gawada has resigned from his duties as chairman of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. The request for the removal of Senator Adam Gawada from the role of Chairman of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation was positively assessed by the Seniors' Convention... [[Talking in the O.R.]] It really bothers me that you're talking. Really. There was time to talk. I ask you to remain calm. This proposal has been welcomed by the Senior Convention. The draft resolution prepared by the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs is included in print No. 1271. Please take the floor of the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Sławomir Rybicki. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u137	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators Committee adopted unanimously at its meeting on 31 July a draft resolution of the Senate, which I will read to the High House, to the senators, on the appeal of the Chairman of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. Senate of the Republic of Poland on the basis of art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate dismisses Senator Adam Gadawa from his role as Chairman of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. The resolution shall enter into force on the day of its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u138	Thank you very much, Senator. Would any of your senators like to speak on this matter? I can't see. We therefore proceed with the vote on the appeal of the Chairman of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? It's not working... It's working, it's working. Please report the results. 82 Senators voted 79 and 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 17]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the appeal of the chairman of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. We proceed with the examination of item 40 of the fifth agenda: the appeal of the chairman of the Health Committee. I would like to inform you that Senator Waldemar Kraska resigned from his duties as Chairman of the Health Committee. The request for the removal of Senator Waldemar Kraski from the office of Chairman of the Health Committee was positively assessed by the Senior Convention. The draft resolution prepared by the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs is included in print no. 1281. Please take the floor of the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Sławomir Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u139	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators Committee adopted unanimously a draft resolution at its meeting on 2 August, which recommends the High House. Resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the appeal of the Chairman of the Committee on Health. Senate of the Republic of Poland on the basis of art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 The Senate's Rules of Procedure dismisses Senator Waldemar Kraska from being Chairman of the Health Committee. The resolution shall enter into force on the day of its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u140	Thank you very much, Senator. Would any of your senators like to speak on this matter? I can't see and I can't hear the calls. We are voting on the appeal of the chairman of the Health Committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 81 for, 1 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 18]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the appeal of the chairman of the Health Committee. We proceed with the examination of item forty-six of the agenda: changes in the membership of the Senate committees. I would like to remind you that the proposals of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators Committee are included in the prints 1279 and 1280. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Przemysław Błaszczyk, to present the proposal of the committee in print no. 1279.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u141	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee yesterday examined Senator Adam Gawada's motion to resign from the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, prepared a resolution and asked for its support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u142	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Sławomir Rybicki, to present the proposal of the Committee in print 1280.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u143	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee adopted a resolution on this matter at its meeting today in relation to the resignation of Senator Waldemar Kraski from his participation in the work of the Health Committee and recommends that the High House adopt this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u144	Thank you very much. Would any of your senators like to speak on these matters? I don't see anyone who's willing, I can't hear. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on the change in the membership of the Senate Committee; print No 1279. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 Senators voted, 83 for, 1 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 19]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on a change in the membership of the Senate Committee. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on the change in the membership of the Senate Committee; print No 1280. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. The votes were 86 senators, 85 in favour, 1 against. [[Voting No 20]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on a change in the membership of the Senate Committee. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and on environmental impact assessments and some other laws. A meeting of the Environment Committee took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 1260 Z. I would like to ask the chairman of the committee, Mr Zdzisław Pupa, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u145	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Senate Committee on the Environment requests support for a proposal to adopt a law without amendments. Amendments were tabled. 13 amendments were tabled and none of them received a majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u146	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senator rapporteur still want to speak? Senator Maciej Łuczak, Senator Aleksander Pociej and Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka submitted their conclusions during the discussion. Thank you. Senator Aleksander Pociej. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u147	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Please support the amendments tabled during the debate. This bill is an act interfering with property. It undermines the fundamental principles of environmental protection. It's a bad bill. Without these amendments, it will be a very bad bill. On behalf of all those who wish to shape their existence on the basis of trust in you, people who often invest all their wealth in place of their dream life, I ask you to give them the protection that this law takes away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u148	Thank you. The committee's rapporteur was Senator Zdzisław Pupa. Do you still want to speak? No. Good. Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments, followed by a vote on the amendments tabled if the proposal is rejected. We proceed with the vote on the motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. The votes were 86 senators, 58 votes against, 26 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 21]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and on environmental impact assessments and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 5 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Veterans of Action outside the borders of the State and some other laws. The National Defence Commission has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 1245 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 22]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Veterans of Action outside the State and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item six of the agenda: the Anti-Food Waste Act. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate print No 1256 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 84 votes against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 23]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Anti-Food Waste Act. We are returning to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the Law on amending the Law on Education Law and the Law on the financing of educational tasks. The Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Science, Education and Sport have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 1261 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all senators voted yes. [[Voting No 24]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Education Law and the Law on the Financing of Educational Tasks. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Law amending the Maritime Safety Act. The Infrastructure Commission presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 1232 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 25]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Maritime Safety. We are returning to the ninth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Ports and Seaports and some other laws. The Infrastructure Commission presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 1247 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 26]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Law on Ports and Seaports and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Competition and Consumer Protection and certain other laws. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate print No 1226 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 27]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] We are returning to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Support for the Development of Telecommunications Services and Networks and some other laws. The meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate, prepared a joint report on the subject, is in print No 1225 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u149	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Report from the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration. The Commissions at its meeting on 2 August 2019 considered the conclusions made during the debate on 1 August 2019 on the Law amending the Law on the Promotion of the Development of Telecommunications Services and Networks and on certain other laws and presenting the following position to the High Senate: The High Senate is pleased to accept the conclusions set out in point II (1).5. Ladies and gentlemen, let me say two or three words about this. There are 2 blocks of amendments tabled during the debate. The first block concerns detailed provisions for applying for so-called compensation to television broadcasters for the release of the 700 MHz band. And the second block of amendments, much more important, I will say in a much simpler way. It removes from the bill all provisions concerning the potential, so to speak, the regulation of this 5G network law. These records, I signal, aroused quite a controversy in society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u150	Thank you very much. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senator rapporteur still want to speak? Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski and Senator Andrzej Biesiołek submitted their conclusions during the discussion. No. Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the committee's motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted against, 2 against, 66 against, 17 abstentions. [[Voting No 28]] In view of the rejection of the proposal for a law without amendments, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Amendments 1, 2 and 5 should be voted on together. These amendments aim to remove solutions related to close-range wireless access points from the Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 82 votes against and three senators abstained. [[Voting No 29]] Amendments 3 and 4 should be voted on together. They aim to grant the President of the Office of Electronic Communications the possibility of reducing to 80% the fee for the right to have a frequency in the event of a request by the broadcaster of digital terrestrial television, which must release the 700 MHz band. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 80 votes against, 6 abstentions. [[Voting No 30]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. Fourty-four senators voted, eighty-five... 65. Yeah, there couldn't be more... I repeat: 84 Senators voted, 65 for, no one opposed, 19 Senators abstained. [[Voting No 31]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Support for the Development of Telecommunications Services and Networks and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the Establishment of the Prison Service Modernization Programme in the years 2017 and 2020. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 1233 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 84 for, 1 against. [[Voting No 32]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the establishment of the Prison Service Modernization Programme in the years 2017 We are returning to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the Code of Criminal Procedure and some other laws. The meeting of the Legislative Committee and of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions took place at the time of the debate, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter. It is available in print No 1243 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Zbigniew Cichoń, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u151	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the meeting of the committee, a proposal was made to adopt the law without amendment and it was voted by a majority, adopted. On the other hand, the proposals for amendments were as they were, as I said earlier. They shall, first of all, bring a guarantee that, in the absence of a lawyer or accused person, the request to repeat those proceedings will be binding on the court. At the moment, this regulation, which was adopted by the Sejm, does not provide for this, but depends on the fulfilment of a number of conditions, which are specified in Article 2 and 7 of the Sejm. 378a. The next amendment boils down to the deletion in point 33 (a). B, where it's... Mr. Senator, were they considered at the committee meeting? They weren't. They weren't. Then please don't talk about them anymore. So I don't have to report them. No, no, absolutely not. Okay, I'm not. That's not necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u152	Everybody knows that. Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the joint committees, Senator Alexander Potoj, to present proposals supported by a minority of the joint committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u153	I'd like to thank the marshal for his intervention. If it weren't for your intervention, I wouldn't have anything to talk about, because Senator Silence was so quick that he wanted to justify the conclusions that were rejected. On the subject, I would very much like to ask the High House for one thing: that we should take another such appeal seriously. In two committees, two amendments were approved by the government. One of the prominent Senators of Law and Justice has also been amended. And then something happens that Senator Martynowski comes, makes a motion to accept without corrections, and suddenly all those who were in favour are against it. You're welcome... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Well, these really are very important procedural guarantees. Elections are coming. These are the problems that the Ministry even agreed to. These are the first and second amendments. Well, as you can, only because of some kind of intervention... all the lawyers agree, the ministry agrees. How do you unscrew something that's been approved before? That's not a serious approach. You're welcome... But, Senator, we're not talking about uncertain scenes, we're talking about committee meetings... Yes, sir. Yes, sir. ...and the amendments. And don't talk about it, because that's a presumption. I'm telling you right now, at the committee meeting... I'd like to say... Okay, this is happening at the committee meeting... ...that the colleagues agreed with the Ministry's approval. Well, that's good. And I would very much ask the colleagues who have agreed to vote to be consistent once in their lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u154	Thank you very much. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Please don't interfere with the proceedings. Does Senator Marek Martynowski still want to speak? No. Thank you very much. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on Senator Marek Martynowski's motion, supported by committees, for the adoption of a law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? We vote... Yeah, we can give you the results now. You're welcome. 85 senators voted, 56 were in favour, 26 against, and 4 senators abstained. [[Voting No 33]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Criminal Procedure and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the Act amending the Commercial Companies Code Act. The Legislative Commission presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 1242 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 83 were in favour... I didn't vote, Mr... Excuse me? Excuse me... Apparently not good enough, it takes more than that to vote. 84 senators voted, 83 were in favour, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 34]] We're not gonna do reconnaissance. We would like to return to the discussion of item 15 of the agenda: the Act amending the Commercial Companies Code and certain other laws. The Legislative Commission has presented a draft resolution in which it proposes amendments to the Act; Senate Print No 1257 A. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendments 1, 3, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, 14, 15, 19 and 22 should be voted on together. These amendments aim to ensure consistency between the Law at issue and the Law of 19 July 2019 amending the Commercial Companies Code and certain other laws which introduce a simple public limited liability company. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 35]] Amendment 2 correlates the terminology of the law with the Civil Code. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted... many didn't vote, but it's okay. 79 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 36]] Amendment 4 adds the missing preposition. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 37]] Amendments 5, 12 and 18 should be voted on together. The amendments seek to take account of the fact that, after dematerialisation, the shares of the public limited liability company will be granted rather than issued. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 38]] Amendments 7 and 16 should be voted on together. They shall include a penalty provision in the relevant substantive law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 39]] Amendment 13 corrects the wrong reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 40]] Amendments 17 and 21 should be voted on together. Amendment 17 seeks to ensure the terminology consequences within the Public Offering Act and the conditions for introducing financial instruments into the organised trading system and on public companies. Amendment 21 is the consequence of this amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 41]] Amendment 20 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 42]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 43]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Commercial Companies Code and certain other laws. We return to the review of item 16 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Lawyers and the Law on Lawyers. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions presented a draft resolution in which it proposed the adoption of a law without amendments. A minority of committees request amendments to the law. Senatski Print No 1244 A. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the committee for the adoption of the law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 73 were in favour, 6 against, and 6 abstentions. [[Voting No 44]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Lawyers and the Law on Lawyers. We return to the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the Act amending the bankruptcy law and certain other laws. The Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions have presented a draft resolution in which they propose amendments to the Act; Senate printing No 1265 A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendment No 1 sets out the terminology of the Act in terms of the terms of the "act to lodge claims' and "jurisdictions'. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 45]] Amendment 2 seeks to ensure consistency between bankruptcy and consumer bankruptcy rules as regards the calculation of the repayment period. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 46]] Amendment 3 harmonises the wording of the same provisions. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 47]] Amendment No 4 states that the provision refers to the debtor's application for bankruptcy and not to the application for termination of proceedings. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 48]] Amendments 5 and 9 should be voted on together. They aim to ensure the consistency of the bankruptcy and consumer bankruptcy rules with regard to the catalogue of court orders for which a complaint is pending. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 49]] Amendment 6 takes account of the fact that the provision concerns, inter alia, the refusal of redemption of the defaulted liabilities without establishing the repayment plan of the creditors and the refusal of conditional redemption of the defaulted liabilities without establishing the repayment plan of the creditors and not the redemption or conditional redemption of such liabilities. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 50]] Amendment 7 clarifies which liabilities will be decommitted after implementation of the creditor's repayment plan. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 51]] Amendment 8 harmonises the terminology of the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 52]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 53]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Insolvency Law and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the Act on the special powers of the victims in the event of exhaustion of the guarantee sum established on the basis of the provisions in force before 1 January 2006. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 1246 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 54]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on the special powers of the victims in the event of exhaustion of the guarantee sum established on the basis of the provisions in force before 1 January 2006. We return to the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and certain other laws. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 1259 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u155	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At its meeting on 2 August, the Commission examined the proposals submitted during the debate. The Commission recommends that the Senate adopt the proposals set out in points 2 and 3 of Section II.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u156	Thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? The conclusions were made by Senator Marek Martynowski, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki and Senator Kazimierz Klein. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on a proposal from the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to adopt a law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted against. They were all against it. [[Voting No 55]] In view of the rejection of the proposal for a law without amendments, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1 allows for the cost of obtaining income in income taxes payments made on an account other than that contained in the VAT list where a split payment mechanism has been applied to this transaction. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 23 were in favour, 60 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 56]] Amendment 2 complements the transitional provision in order to allow the legislator to continue to apply the existing rules relating to the refund of VAT to flat-rate farmers and the application of the 0% rate in the period envisaged by the legislator. VAT on imports of certain goods. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 57]] Amendment 3 covers a reduced VAT rate of 5%, so-called. vegetable milk based on soya, nuts, cereals or seeds. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 58]] Amendment 4 gives rise to a reduced VAT rate of 5% , all equipment for carrying children in cars. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, 26 were in favour, 56 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 59]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 80 were in favour, 1 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 60]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and on certain other laws. We are back to discussing the 20th agenda: the Act on Accessibility for people with special needs. The Infrastructure Commission presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 1249 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 81 were in favour. [[Voting No 61]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on Accessibility to persons with special needs. We are returning to the examination of item 21 of the first agenda: the act on the implementation of social services by the social services centre. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senator Print No 1240 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 62]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on Social Services Implementation by the Social Services Centre. We return to the examination of item twenty-second of the agenda: the Act amending the Social Assistance Act and the Law on the Protection of Mental Health. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 1250 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 63]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Social Assistance and the Act on the Protection of Mental Health. We return to the examination of item twenty-third of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Minimum Compensation for Work. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 1251 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 64]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Minimum Compensation for Work. We return to the examination of item twenty-four of the agenda: Act amending the Act on Pension Supply to Police Officers, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Counterintelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, Central Anti-corruption Office, Border Guard, State Security Service, State Fire Department, Customs and Prison Service and their families and some other laws. The session was interrupted by a meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject; it is in print No 1252 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Antoni Szymanski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u157	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The joint committees recommend the adoption of a law without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u158	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the joint committees, Senator Alexander Potoj, to present proposals supported by a minority of the joint committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u159	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Please support a very small change. It's a settlement period where officers can receive overtime. Setting this period as a 6-month period will make these phrases much smaller, almost illusory. I would very much like to ask for the support of the amendments which make these settlements quarterly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u160	Thank you very much, Senator. As an applicant, you may speak again, but I think... Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the motion of the joint committees to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 68 votes against, 12 against and 5 abstentions. [[Voting No 65]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Pension Supply to Police Officers, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Counterintelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, Central Anti-corruption Office, Border Guard, State Security Service, State Fire Department, Customs and Prison Service and their families and some other laws. We return to the examination of item twenty-fifth of the agenda: the Law on amending the Law on Police, the Law on Border Guard and the Law on Prison Service. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments, and a minority of committees asked for the bill to be rejected; Senate print No 1241 A. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. We proceed with the vote on the motion of the minority committee to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 25 were in favour, 59 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 66]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the motion of the committee to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 60 were in favour, 25 against. [[Voting No 67]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the Police Act, the Border Guard Act and the Prison Service Act. We return to the examination of item twenty-six of the agenda: the Law on compensation schemes for energy-intensive sectors and sub-sectors. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 1248 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 68]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the system of compensation for energy-intensive sectors and sub-sectors. We are returning to the examination of item twenty-seven of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on oil stocks, oil products and natural gas and the rules for dealing with situations of threat to the fuel security of the state and disturbances on the oil market and the Energy Law. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 1253 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 Senators voted 79 and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 69]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on oil stocks, oil products and natural gas and on the principles of dealing with situations of threat to the fuel security of the state and disturbances on the oil market and the Energy Law. We return to the examination of item twenty-eighth of the agenda: the Act amending the Investment Act in the field of the regasification terminal of liquefied natural gas in Świnoujście. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation has presented a draft resolution in which it asks for an amendment to the Act on Senate Print No 1254 A. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the amendment submitted and then on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendment adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendment tabled by the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. The amendment aims to clarify the definition of the infrastructure needed to operate the extension of the investment catalogue accompanying the construction of the Świnoujście terminal. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 70]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendment adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 Senators voted, 82 votes against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 71]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Investments in the Regasification Terminal of liquefied natural gas in Świnoujście. We would like to return to the discussion of item twenty-nine of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels and certain other laws. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of this law without any amendments to the Senate print No 1255 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 Senators voted, 82 votes against and 1 abstention. (Vote 72) In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels and certain other laws. We return to the examination of the 30th agenda: the Act amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act and some other laws. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate print No 1270 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 Senators voted, 82 votes against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 73]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 30 of the first agenda: the law amending the law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of certain workers employed in medicinal entities. A meeting of the Health Committee took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 1263 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Dorota Czudowska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u161	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Health Committee recommends that this law be adopted without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u162	Thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? Senator Grodzki? Senator Blackbay? No. Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendment tabled. We proceed with the vote on the proposal of the Health Committee to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, 68 votes in favour, no votes against, 15 abstentions. [[Voting No 74]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of some workers employed in medicinal entities. We return to the examination of item 30 of the second agenda: the Law amending certain laws in connection with the implementation of solutions in the area of eHealth. A meeting of the Health Committee took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 1264 Z. I would like to ask Senator Czudowska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u163	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Health Committee also recommends adopting this law without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u164	Thank you very much. Do the senators, Senator Thomas Grodzki or Senator Leszek Czarnobaj want to speak? Thank you very much. Thank you kindly. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments, and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendment tabled. We proceed with the vote on the proposal of the Health Committee to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 68 votes against, 1 against, 13 abstentions. [[Voting No 75]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending certain laws in connection with the implementation of solutions in the area of eHealth. We are returning to the examination of the 30th agenda: the Law on the amendment of the pharmaceutical law. The Health Commission presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 1269 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 79 for, 1 against. [[Voting No 76]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the pharmaceutical law. We are returning to the examination of item 30 of the fourth agenda: the Act amending the Law on Public Use and Volunteering. The session was interrupted by a meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 1266 Z. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Senator Andrzej Mioduszewski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u165	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions requests the adoption of a law without amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u166	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the minority committee, Senator Grzegorz Napieralski, to present the proposals supported by the minority committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u167	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If you would not like to reject... There are three amendments, technical, but very important, proposed by the environment of all youth organisations, because the law really concerns the establishment of a board of dialogue with the young generation. And the amendments concern the introduction of 3 issues. The first is that there should be a representative of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, because there really is the largest scope in terms of cooperation with the young generation. The second amendment would add a provision on the representative of the government's representative for persons with disabilities, because the issue of disability among young people is very important. And the third amendment, more technical, would clarify when it comes to posting to this board that it is these associations, those NGOs that are working for young people. Speaking to Minister Lipinski, I suggested such solutions. I had a feeling he didn't mind. These are really technical amendments, and they come up against young people who lobbied very strongly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u168	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicant Alexander Pociej or Grzegorz Napieralski want to speak? No. Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the committee's motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 57 for, 25 against, no one opposed. [[Voting No 77]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Public Benefit and Volunteering. And now we are back to dealing with item thirty-fifth of the agenda: the Law on the amendment of the law of the consular law. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; it is Senate printing No 267 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? It's not working. It's gonna work in a minute. Does it work? It's working. Let me repeat: who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 78]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Consular Law. We return to the examination of item 30 of the Sixth Agenda: the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the United States of America on strengthening cooperation in the field of prevention and combating serious crime, signed in Washington on 12 June 2019. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; this is Senate printing No 268 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 79]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the United States of America on strengthening cooperation in the field of preventing and combating serious crime, signed in Washington on 12 June 2019. We return to the examination of item 30 of the seventh agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the law on road traffic. Following the second reading of the bill, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and obliged these committees to submit an additional report at the present Senate meeting. It is in print No 1189 X. We proceed to the third reading. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Jerzy Czerwinski, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u169	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The joint committees recommend the adoption of amendments from one to three and then the entire draft legislation.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u170	Thank you very much, Senator. Do you still want to speak? Probably not. [[Talking in the O.R.]] It would be Senator Jerzy Czerwiński again. So you don't want to take... Of course. At present, senators may submit a request to the rapporteur and the applicant from a place of not more than one minute in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of you like to ask such a question? I can't see and I can't hear the calls. Then we shall proceed to the vote. First, the votes on the amendments will be held. "Print No 1189 X " followed by the order of the design and the adoption of the draft from print No 1189 S in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendments tabled. Amendments 1 and 3 should be voted together. And two. They shall enter into the draft a document confirming the release of the vehicle from the parking lot which will form the basis for issuing an implementing title within the meaning of the enforcement rules in the administration. The model for confirming the issue of the vehicle shall be determined by the Minister responsible for internal affairs by means of a regulation. Pending the adoption of the regulation, the model for confirming the issue of the vehicle will be determined by the district board. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 80]] We proceed with the vote on the draft... Already in full...? One more amendment... [[Talking in the O.R.]] That was number one. It was... I mean, it wasn't Amendments 1 and 3, it was just... I'm gonna have to make an adjustment here. Ladies and gentlemen, this was a vote on amendments 1 to 3. No. 1, 2, 3. These 3 amendments have been voted out. Nobody raises any objections? No. Thank you very much. We proceed to the vote on the adoption of the bill in its entirety with changes resulting from the amendments adopted and on the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. The committees propose that the Senate authorise Senator Jerzy Czerwiński to represent the Senate in further work on this bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, all in favor of... No! 83 Senators voted, 82 were in favour, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 81]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the law on road traffic and has adopted a resolution on the introduction of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate authorised Senator Jerzy Czerwiński to represent the Senate in further work on this project. We are returning to the examination of the eighth paragraph: the second reading of the draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code. I would like to remind you that yesterday a report was presented to the committee on the draft law and a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committees request the Senate to adopt a uniform bill in print no. 1207 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Zbigniew Cichonia to represent the Senate in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft law on the amendment of the Civil Procedure Code and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft to the Sejm presented by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. Seventy votes... Oh, come on. 78 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 82]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft resolution amending the Civil Procedure Code and has adopted a resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate authorised Senator Zbigniew Cichoń to represent the Senate in further work on this project. I thought it was over, and it's not over. We are returning to the examination of item 40 of the second agenda: the Act amending the Act on Election Code and the Act on National referendum. The Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendment. A minority of committees requests that the law be rejected and that amendments be made to the bill; Senate print No 1274 A. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. The vote on the amendments tabled will be held if the previous proposals are rejected. We proceed with the vote on the motion of the minority committee to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 25 were in favour, 56 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 83]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the motion of the committee to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 56 were in favour, 24 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 84]] In view of the result of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act of. The electoral code and the Act on the National referendum. We are returning to the examination of item 40 of the third agenda: a law amending certain laws aimed at reducing regulatory burdens. A meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 1273 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Tadeusz Kopcia, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u171	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Committee on National Economy and Innovation at today's meeting considered the law and recommended that this law be adopted without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u172	Thank you very much. Does Senator Piotr Zientarski want to speak yet? Yes. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u173	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment is very important. The point is that local governments that spend money on lighting streets and squares, which have an agreement, for example. with Energa, as the final payer they will have to pay fully invoiced bills, i.e. higher than some other local authorities that have direct contracts. We have an obvious inequality of entities here. This amendment equals the chances of self-government. This is the conclusion of the Polish Towns Association.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u174	Thank you very much, Senator. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments, and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendment tabled. We are voting on the proposal of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation to adopt the law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who abstained from voting? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 56 were in favour, 25 against. [[Voting No 85]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending certain laws in order to reduce regulatory burdens. We are returning to the examination of item 40 of the fourth agenda: the Law on the General Agricultural Census in 2020. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of a law without amendments; Senate printing No 1275 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 86]] As a result of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the Law on the General Agricultural Census in 2020. I would like to inform you that the agenda of the 80th Senate meeting has been exhausted. Any statements? They're here. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Would any of your senators like to take the floor and make a statement? Mr. Senator Vistula was the first. You're welcome, Senator. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet in the courtroom, please. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senators of the Civic Platform, please listen to the statement. And the PiS senators. That's where the voices came from, there's silence.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u175	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to make a statement to the Minister of Culture and National Heritage of Mr Piotr Gliński. Dear Minister, On February 10, 1919, General Haller, throwing the ring into the Baltic Sea, made the act of marrying Poland with the sea. This day is celebrated every year, with a break from 1939 to 1954. The organizers of the wedding are the Puck local government, the Sea and River League and the Kashubian-Pomeranian Association. An integral part of the celebration is the handing over of the Haller Ring to those who deserve it for the sake of the sea and inland waterway. A group of people... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]] Quiet, Senators, please. Gentlemen of the Senators! Among those who received this distinction are such personalities as Pope John Paul. II; Polish presidents: Lech Wałęsa, Bronisław Komorowski, Lech Kaczyński and Andrzej Duda; Marshal of the Sejm Maciej Płażyński; President of Gdansk Paweł Adamowicz; cities: Puck, Kołobrzeg, Gdansk, Gdynia, Warsaw and Toruń. During this year's celebration I also received the Haller Ring with the number 153 engraved and the title of the Haller Ring Bachelor. It is with great sadness that I find out that I may be the last person honored in this way. On 22 July this year, the Secretary of State, Jarosław Sellin, informed the organizers of his intention to take over the ceremony by the State and exclude the Maritime and River League from it. The league, whose merits for the Polish Senate of the Republic of Poland honoured with a resolution recognising the year 2019 as the Year of the Maritime and River League. It is said that the reason for this strange initiative of the Ministry is disapproval of the intention to honor the ring of Haller by the former Prime Minister of Poland and President of the European Council Donald Tusk. Minister, please inform me if the Ministry really wants to take over the celebration of the marriage of Poland with the sea and demands that the Maritime and River League be excluded from this ceremony. If so, why? After all, the stay of the President of Poland for 150 minutes in Puck cannot be an excuse for ruining a long, beautiful tradition and throwing away organizers who have cared for good memory of weddings for many years. This applies primarily to the Maritime and River League, the leader of efforts to link Poland to the sea from the interwar years. I would also like to know whether this is an accidental, one-off intention or whether it is intended to take over the celebration permanently. At the same time, I call for this decision to be changed and joined by the current organisers if this is justified because of the President's visit, or if the Ministry wishes to support the celebration of the wedding in future years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo! Thank you, Senator. I have another statement. There you go. The statement is addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure, Mr Andrzej Adamczyk. Dear Minister, The S-16 national road is the main transport and transport route of Warmia and Mazury. It runs through the entire region about 300 km long, combining many cities, including the 4 of the 5 largest in the region. It also connects Warmia and Mazury with border crossings with Lithuania and Via Carpatia, and through it with so-called. the eastern and southern walls of Europe and, on the other hand, With the A-1 motorway and seaports: Gdansk, Gdynia and Elbląg. The S-16 can and should be the backbone of the development of Warmia and Mazury, the region ♪ Let's add ♪ . which requires infrastructure support in order to combat its exclusion from transport and transport. Therefore, the S-16 should be treated as a basic link between Via Carpatia and A-1 and Polish seaports. If this role is played, it will help to accelerate the economic development of the whole region. The option of connecting ports with Via Carpatia near Lublin, promoted by the government, through the S-7 expressway will not produce such effects, will not eliminate the risk of the large region's communication exclusion and support the development of its economic development. For these effects to be possible, it is advisable to accelerate the work on modernising this road to the parameters of the expressway. Especially important is the implementation of the section "Mrągowo" by Orzysz "Ełk," whose modernization plans date back to the 1980s. For Warmia and Mazury, it is important not only to accelerate the construction of the S16 road, but also to carry out this task in a way that takes into account social, economic and environmental factors. It was supposed to be five minutes, Mr. Senator. Half a minute, Mrs. Marshal. For the tourist region, this latter factor is extremely important and local communities want to participate in the assessment of investment documentation. The suggestions I present to the Minister take into account the positions and opinions of the Sejmik Województwa Warmińsko-Mazurskie; local authorities, among others. White Piska, Mrągowo, Kętrzyn and Orzysz; business environments including Warmia-Mazury Business Club. I ask you to give a friendly and in-depth consideration of the proposals put forward to justify the rapid modernisation of the S16 road and whether they are feasible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u176	Thank you very much, Senator. Now please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. There you go. I remind you, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u177	I have three statements. I'm the first to go to the Minister of National Education. Please inform me how the Ministry of National Education evaluates the recruitment of middle school students and graduates of 8 primary schools to secondary schools. I ask my question in the context of the alarming information that appeared in public space and caused great reactions among parents and young people themselves. Later, the authors of these publications withdrew from the alarmist tone. I would ask the Minister to assess this process and the conclusions that the Ministry of National Education has drawn from this whole situation. The second statement is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers. Dear Prime Minister, in connection with the publication of the Polish demographic situation until 2018. The creation and disintegration of the families of 1 August 2019 I kindly request information as to whether the results of this report are analysed by the departments and government institutions under your authority and whether, in connection with this report, studies are ongoing or more advanced on the correction of the country's family policy so that it becomes more pro-natalist. And the third statement is addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure. I ask for detailed information when to expect a national road no. 7 on the section from Płońska to Napierek, because the work in this section at the beginning was intense, and at the moment they were stopped. And I ask the Minister to give you a detailed timetable and an expected date of receipt of the entire section, after which it will be possible for citizens to use it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u178	Thank you very much. And I'll ask Senator Arthur Warzocha to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u179	Thank you very much, Marshal. My statement is addressed to Mr Witold Bianca, Minister of Sport and Tourism. Following last year's decision by the Minister for Sport and Tourism to grant subsidies from the State budget to finance the task of the Ministry of Sport and Tourism. The construction of the Football Center in Częstochowa, please kindly answer the following questions. Firstly, did the local government of Częstochowa complete all necessary formalities and comply with the legal deadlines during the process of applying for a grant of PLN 10 million for this purpose in the annual programme? Secondly, will the grant amount of the investment be paid to the beneficiary within the prescribed time limit? Thirdly, if the grant is used, will the Częstochowa self-government be able to apply for further funds for this investment from the State budget, e.g. under multiannual programmes? At the same time, I would like to stress and declare that the football club RKS Raków Częstochowa in the current season in the game of the Extraclasse due to the lack of its own stadium takes up teams at the facility GKS Bełchatów, which significantly hinders the proper functioning of the club itself and can affect the results of the games. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u180	Thank you very much. Senator Antoni Szymanski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u181	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make a statement on behalf of the 3 senators, Jan Żaryn, Jan Maria Jackowski and my statement is addressed to the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage and the Institute of National Remembrance on the Pomeranian crime of 1939. On the 80th anniversary of the outbreak of World War II, it is particularly important to speak out about the Pomeranian crime and to remind it of it. This term, formulated and promoted by the staff of the Institute of National Remembrance, seems most appropriate. In the first months of the war in Gdańsk Pomerania, about 30,000 people were murdered. Despite such a large scale of blood events in the autumn of 1939, they are poorly functioning in the social consciousness of Poles. At the beginning of September 1939 in Gdansk Pomerania, within the framework of the state administration policy of the Third Reich, local units of German citizens' guards were established in the local Germans. The organization to which more than 38 thousand people joined in Pomerania was formally defensive. In fact, it was used to exterminate and settle personal accounts with Polish neighbours. Future victims were stopped in the streets, in the courts, in the workplaces. Poles were gathered at police stations, in old factory buildings, cellars of former school buildings, military barracks, economic buildings. In these temporary detentions, Poles were abused. They used whips, nail boards and forks to beat. In Rypyna, dogs were shoved, nails were stabbed in the back elsewhere, and crying for help and screaming in pain, plaster was put in the mouth. In the old-gard prison, priests were treated with special cruelty, especially those with German-sounding names. Women teachers were tortured and often raped. Those who survived torture faced the so-called. It's a folk court. The largest number of executions took place in the surrounding forests: sandstones, spęgawski, Hopowskis and Karszewskis. The Germans also exterminated in gravel pits, sandpits, Paterek, Nniszek, Little Clean The trenches, the vast valleys, the city parks, the fields. According to historian's findings, 25% of the victims were not killed by the shooting, but were murdered in the pits of death with blunt tools, most likely with rifles and shovels. The court-doctoral examination of the bodies of the victims of the crime, which was carried out after the war at the Department of Medical Medicine of the Medical Academy in Gdansk, shows that the executioners shot at the kneeling or lying people from behind, so that they would kill with their face to the grave. The wounded were struck by gunshot wounds or buried in a grave without killing. According to the accounts, the murdered often behaved well. Some have said goodbye to life with words yet Poland has not died! Many Poles were only shot and suffocated in graves where they were buried with sand and other bodies. Only a few survived the execution, escaped, or dug themselves out from under a pile of bodies. After the war, some reported the atrocities of the perpetrators. Among the murdered about 30,000 people were representatives of Polish intelligence, but there were also Polish farmers, workers, craftsmen, Jews and mentally ill people. This was the first major extermination action against the civilian population during World War II. According to the historians of IPN, both the scale and nature of the German crimes in the pre-war area of the Pomeranian voivodship, as well as the role of the Civic Guard, support the need to introduce a new concept to education and national memory: the Pomeranian crime in 1939. We also appeal for this. We also ask the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage and the Institute of National Remembrance to take action to commemorate the Pomeranian crime. Signed: Jan Żaryn, Jan Jackowski, Antoni Szymański. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-08-02-senat-83-3.u182	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. Do we have any messages? We don't. Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 80th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The third sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of the IXth term of office is closed. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[Meeting adjourned at 16 minutes 26]]
