ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I would like to call on Marcin Duszek, Daniel Milewski, Arkadiusz Myrch and Monica Wielichowska to be the secretaries of today's proceedings. Members Marcin Duszek and Daniel Milewski will be present in the first part of the session. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Daniel Milewski and Monika Wielichowska. I consider the minutes of the 79th session of the Sejm to be adopted against the non-rejection of objections. The Council of Ministers submitted a draft law amending the Act on National Property Resources and some other laws, print No 3364. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the first reading of this draft law. The competent committees have submitted reports on government draft laws: - amending the Act on the commercial quality of agri-food products, - on the amendment of the Law on State aid proceedings. The reports shall include prints 3373 and 3335 respectively. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the examination of these reports. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - health care for students, - on the amendment of the Law on proceedings before administrative courts and certain other laws, - on the amendment of the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals and some other laws, - ratification of the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Japan, of the other part, drawn up in Tokyo on 17 July 2018. The reports shall, as appropriate, be in prints No 3361, No 3330, No 3284 and No 3341. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - on the amendment of the law on taxation of goods and services and of certain other laws, - amending the Police Act and certain other laws, - amending the Employment Promotion Act and the Employment Market Institutions, - amending the Polish Charter Act and the consular law. These are 3360, 3374, 3370 and 3375 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and, in the case of printing No 3375, consent to the application of Article. 51 (3) of the Sejm Regulation. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The Committee on Culture and Media submitted a report on the Commission's draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2020 by Leopold Tyrmand, print No.204. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles in a joint discussion of the Council of Ministers' information on the situation of the elderly in Poland for the years 2016 and 2017. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in discussions on the committee's report on ratification of the strategic partnership agreement. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that in discussions on the other items on the agenda, the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the Seniors Convention unanimously gave an opinion on the proposal to consider at the current meeting of the Sejm information on State aid for the construction, reconstruction and renovation of local roads and new opportunities to support the development of local road infrastructure, which was requested by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter is available in the Sejm Information System. The formal proposal was submitted by Mr Krystian Jarubas, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u2	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. Paragraph 184. 3 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I request a break and a supplement to the agenda for information on the government regarding the strike of teachers. Ladies and gentlemen! That money belonged to them - you screamed Szydło from that speaker, talking about the ministers of the PiS government. Their money does not belong to them - said the Minister of Education about the teachers who are on strike. Prime Minister Morawiecki! I wish you were here. Have the courage to come out here and inform Poles, students and parents, teachers, what are you going to do next, what is your plan for Polish education? We strongly demand a response to our request, which was made yesterday. Unfortunately, the Seniors Convention dominated by the PiS does not want to provide information about the government's plan to meet the demands of teachers. For your party money activists, you don't regret it. Why do you regret the education of Polish children? Let Mr. Morawiecki explain that to you. No more jokes, ladies and gentlemen. Government bears full responsibility for teacher strike [[♪ The bell ♪]] and today we strongly demand information on how you are going to resolve this crisis. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u3	Thank you, sir. Mr Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u4	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I speak as a messenger at the Polish Parliament, but also as a first- and fourth-grade mom. I call on Prime Minister Morawiecki to begin talks with the teachers immediately. [[Touchdown, applause]] Time... The Prime Minister wants to organize a round table after Christmas? And what about that time? Polish children are waiting to go back to school. We have brought this meeting of the Sejm to begin with information about what is happening in Polish education and how you intend to resolve this conflict, and of course, Mr Marshal and some of the PiS bureau have not agreed to this. I can't imagine us starting this session of the Sejm without noticing what is happening in Polish schools. Polish children want to go back to school, and you are not going to do anything to make it possible for them. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u5	Thank you very much. The conclusions are in writing, although I did not expect them in this case, but very well. Just, ladies and gentlemen, there is a fundamental issue, Art. Paragraph 184. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall be read as follows: Formal applications may relate only to matters on the agenda and the proceedings of the sitting. [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska: It was.]] [[Voice from the hall: Nothing is more important than a teacher strike.]] This case is not on the agenda of this sitting... [[Voice from the room: Why not?]] ...and it was, ladies and gentlemen, discussed at the Senior Convention meeting. The Committee on Education, Science and Higher Education has dealt with this issue many times, in general, concerning education... [[We'll take care of it too, Marshal.]] ...and even recommended not to take care of it. [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] On the other hand, we agreed at the Senior Convention meeting as follows: I will ask the Minister of Education to prepare the information. When we have complete knowledge of the situation, I will refer the matter to the committee. So that, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot accept these proposals as formal proposals. [[Applause]] I ask the secretary to read the messages. [[Scandal!]] [[Voice from the room: Break, there was a request for a break.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u6	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Investigative to examine the regularity and legality of operations and the occurrence of negligence and omissions by public authorities in ensuring the revenue of the Treasury in respect of tax on goods and services and excise duties between December 2007 and November 2015 - at 10, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 10.30, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 11, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 11.30, - to the European Union in conjunction with the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, at 3 p.m. 12, - Constitutional responsibility - h.m. 13, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 14, - Public Finance - hour. 15, - Justice and Human Rights together with the Committee on Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - hour 16, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 4:30 p.m., - Health-- hour. 5:30. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Public Health - h.m. 10, - Parliamentary Mining and Energy Team - hour 11, - Parliamentary Group for: Basic Health Care and Prevention - h.m. 11, - Parliamentary Team - break up with plastic - hour 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Oncology - hour 14, - Parliamentary Group for: solving problems of the inhabitants of the Polish district and municipality - at 16 p.m., - Parliamentary Group for: Sports Infrastructure - at 16 p.m. The pastoral ministry of parliamentarians warmly invites ladies and gentlemen to the Lent Retreat which will take place on 11 and 12 April this year. They will start on Thursday 11 April at 3 p.m. 20 in the church of St. St. Aleksandra at the Three Crosses Square in Warsaw. Friday, 12 April will be held at 3 p.m. 7.30 in the Seym Chapel at the House of Parliament. The retreat will be led by Fr. Professor Andrzej Kobyliński from Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński University in Warsaw. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u7	Thank you very much. Before we proceed on item 1 of the agenda, I would like to warmly welcome the high school youth from Vishnic in the Bial district. Welcome to the Seym. [[Game in the hall, applause]] We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and some other laws (Prints No. 3301 and 3360). Before I ask Mr Piotr Uściński to present a report to the committee, I would very much like to ask you to stop talking in the Chamber. And I ask those who do not want to listen to the deliberations to leave the room. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u8	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Taxation on Goods and Services and some other laws, print no. 3301. Ladies and gentlemen! This short project aims to further seal the VAT system in order to reduce the VAT gap so that the revenue of the state budget is greater so that we can meet the needs of Poles. How can we do that? This law provides for the consolidation of existing VAT lists into a single list, a database that will be accessible to the public, free of charge. It will contain a set of information about VAT taxpayers, including the dates when they ceased their activities when they suspended their activities, for example. reasons for the suspension of economic activity. And one more very important thing: this list will include the billing account numbers of these taxpayers, so that anyone who receives an invoice with the bank account number on which the money is to be paid knows whether this account number is on the list of the National Tax Administration and whether the National Tax Administration covers this account with the STIR system, or whether it can examine it. It must be said that such a taxpayer - if it verify the account number and e.g. the invoice will be a different account number than the one on the list - he should ask for the possibility to pay on the account that is on the list, but if his counterparty insists, please do so, you can deposit it on the account that is on the list, and you need to report it to the tax office. If the taxpayer does not report to the tax office the account number to which he made the payment, it concerns payments of more than 15 000. zł - these are two sanctions applied. Like I said, you can avoid them if you report this bill number. The first penalty is that the costs of such an invoice cannot be calculated, the second is more severe, because it is a joint and several responsibility for the sins of its contractor. Thus, this law will increase the level of certainty of economic turnover, it will make every Pole able to protect himself against joint and several responsibility, so he will also be able to protect himself against hitting the VAT carousels accidentally. That's very good. The Act will have a very positive impact on the Polish economy and, as I said earlier, on the sealing of the VAT system. The Commission addressed the draft at its meeting on 3 April. The minor amendments tabled by Mr Szewczak and the Legislative Office have been taken into account. I would like to thank, on behalf of the committee, President Andrzej Szlachta and Vice-President Jan Szewczak for their substantive debate. The Ministry, the Legislative Bureau, all of them did well and the committee successfully adopted the bill. So, on behalf of the committee, I would like the High Sejm to announce the attached bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u9	Thank you very much, sir. I'm opening a discussion. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. First, Mr Jan Szewczak, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u10	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Since the rapporteur has discussed both the work and the proposal on a single tax base in quite detail, I will only make a few general comments in this regard. Of course, it is primarily about small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, about protecting them from falling into the web of VAT carousels, which have already been significantly reduced. In fact, one can say, there is not a day that we do not hear about the subsequent arrests of those responsible for this type of crime. Even today, this information about the ex-Senator is about extortion of 40 million. This is an enormous amount, although these are not the situations we have been dealing with in recent months when we heard about criminal groups that were able to extort 500 million and even issue invoices for 1 billion PLN in total. This is completely shocking information. Very often the victims actually fell the smallest, the least, one might say, cautious, or simply too submissive. Here is the problem, in general, with the structural weakness of VAT and the misuse of the construction of input tax. Undoubtedly something will have to be done in this matter, to think deeply. In my next term of office, I believe that very precise, serious reforms will have to be introduced in the area of income taxes, because the rules on income taxes are also old. Some significant changes in terms of CIT and PIT, as well as VAT, should be made. Of course, it's good when you take notes, for example. The Committee on Public Finance or Members of other committees are taken into account by the Ministry of Finance, because then we do not have such situations as recently with the VAT matrix. This cooperation must be stepped up if the effect is to be positive. Of course, it is also about some greater trust on the line - the entrepreneur - the tax administration. After all, let us remind, on the one hand, there are solutions introduced by us, like the principle in dubio pro tributario, but really few use it. We want to introduce these solutions beneficial to taxpayers, somehow protect those operating on the market even though, so to speak, huge, actually over the years until now, the impunity of those who have carried out such activities. This uniform tax base and the possibility of checking data in the Central Register and Information about Business Activity will certainly be useful. Although today, following the introduction of split payment solutions and other such sealing elements, we have rather a problem with the events, with what was, i.e. with entrepreneurs who in the past 8 and 10 years have been caught in this trap of VAT carousels. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, this is very, I would say, an important act contrary to appearances, although it may seem purely technical. She addresses fundamental issues with regard to the budget at all, e.g. fiscal function. You know, the finance minister -- it's about the budget -- he has to raise that revenue. The question is how to collect them and seal their collection, without, of course, dissuading Polish entrepreneurs from doing business, which is not simple under our conditions. The budget and the tax administration also have the potential to influence through stimulating functions. If the Polish state cares about something, it can stimulate here through fiscal actions, through legal solutions in terms of revenue, public danin. Solutions can be either encouraging or disheartening. Finally, there is a function that we are not talking about at all in our debates, a control function for the revenue and expenditure of the state budget, which shows that this type of solution should be monitored in detail. It seems that this law does not raise any major political or substantive controversy and should be adopted as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u11	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Janusz Cichoń, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u12	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to start by thanking the Legislative Bureau, because it was the Legislative Bureau that saved the project. The Legal Office has proved... we, by the way, are talking about this at every opportunity when it comes to government proposals regarding the tax system, that government projects are on their knees. And so it was in this case. What happened in the committee was a real embarrassment to the Ministry of Finance. It is about the quantity, but also about the quality weight of the amendments that the Legislative Office has tabled, in a legislative dimension, but not only legislative, not only editorial, but also in substance. I can say that I'm afraid to think what would have happened if it hadn't been for the Sejm's legislators. Perhaps ministers should give them their prizes. On the other hand, I have the impression that the changes, the redundancies of a large group of employees, when it comes to tax departments in the Ministry of Finance, are doing their job. The effects of this can be seen clearly. What I'm trying to say is that it's shocking, especially if we take into account the fact that this bill has been hatched for four years. The first assumptions were made four years ago, and almost two years ago, this project was traveling from the Ministry of Finance to the Sejm. If I know correctly... Here I would like to get an answer to the question whether the law commission was involved in it or whether the Ministry of Finance has once again missed this law commission. That's what happens after that. What I'm saying is that this solution that we find here is really important, as I said, it's been called for for years. This register should actually allow the tax system to be sealed. On the other hand, we feel a lack of satisfaction, because there is still no register which is the most important from the point of view of sealing the tax system, and this register is the Central Register of Invoices, a register kept in real time on the servers of the Minister of Finance. And just as this project lacks estimates of the benefits, and the Ministry of Finance says that it does not really know, it is not able to calculate it, as far as the Central Register of Invoices in this form of access is concerned. On-line and authentication of invoices on the server of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry itself estimated the losses of the state budget due to the lack of this register for 3 billion per month. And we are taking actions from which the benefits cannot be estimated, and this is the most important one, because this is the key solution when it comes to sealing the tax system, stuck at a dead point, stuck in a company that the Ministry of Finance has specifically set up for this purpose, Critical applications, which are financed every year, the Ministry covers their loss, and the effects of the actions are grieved because even when we look at what they have generated so far Critical applications, it calls for vengeance to heaven. In fact, including JPK analysers, for example, which in fact are almost useless and do not allow for system analysis. To conclude, I would like to say that this project unfortunately is also proof that the PiS is once again shifting the costs of sealing to entrepreneurs. If we are talking about the Central Register of Invoices, the obligation of authentication would rest on the Minister of Finance and Tax Administration, and here we are actually forcing, we are developing to some extent the idea of joint and several liability, which, incidentally, is met with enormous criticism, for example in the Parliamentary Committee, on the part of the PiS. It's a bit of a ripple in this area, too. Following these changes, which were made at the committee meeting, mainly thanks [[♪ The bell ♪]] the work of the Legislative Bureau, we will support this project as a Civic Platform club. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u13	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u14	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, second reading of the bill amending the Value Added Tax Act, i.e. VAT. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is proposing this change: it wants to introduce a register in which these taxpayers will be shown, on which we can consider them to be honest. And the first questions arise: What about those who, however, prove dishonest, and in this register will they be? Who will bear the responsibility for making payments or concluding transactions with traders who will be in that register and should not be? And a contrario: Who will bear the responsibility for contracts not executed by those entrepreneurs who will be deleted from the register or will not be included in it, even though they should be included in it? These questions, I think, are worth asking, and I hope the Minister will answer them. Another thing, ladies and gentlemen. As a rule, making such a register is not a bad idea. Kukiz.15 is a proponent of transparency, and it could even be considered that here such a register could be a tool to facilitate the conduct of business in a way... [[Voice from the room: But...]] Easy, easy, easy, easy. ...to facilitate business activity, while the question is what are the conditions for doing business today. During my first reading of this project, I paid attention, among others. on the issue of payments, on the issue of payment deadlines, and today I wanted to draw attention to another matter, namely that you are introducing - and, you have already introduced - split payment, i.e. part of the payment is to go to the counterparty's account, it is settled between the counterparties and part of the payment is to be transferred to the tax account. Here you have secured the level of tax collection to be as high as possible. But there's a question here. I understand that you state that the Minister, that you are acting for this purpose and with the intention to collect as many taxes as possible, while we as Kukiz.15 look at this, above all by accepting the optics of entrepreneurs, those who have to earn to keep their taxes, among others. us who work here in this room. So the question is: What are the solutions here? Does the Ministry have any solutions for better collection of payments at all? What of the fact that the State will receive a payment in a separate tax account if the trader does not receive his payment from the buyer of the goods to which he supplied the goods? Should such an entrepreneur be unfairly removed from that register? Is that the basis, the premise of being crossed out, that someone, for example. fulfills the obligation only to the State and not to the supplier of the goods or services anymore? These are questions that are definitely worth looking for answers to. I repeat my appeal, I appeal once again to the Ministry of Finance, but not only to the Ministry of Finance, also to the Ministry of Entrepreneurship, to all these departments of the government, to change the approach towards entrepreneurs themselves, so that entrepreneurs finally have a profitable business activity in Poland. And I'm not talking about this, ladies and gentlemen, to introduce socialism in the form of setting minimum prices or rules on how to shape these prices. All I want is for entrepreneurs to have protection from the state in such a way that, if they provide a service to someone or provide some goods, the State will protect payment to them so that there are no such situations that there are different companies - it is called cocks, bushes - which conspire businesses in good faith to provide services to them, to these cons or to the cocks, or to supply them with goods, and then these entities disappear. Therefore, Minister, in accepting the arrangements for the introduction of this register, I would like to draw attention to the fact that there is still a need for even better solutions for the verification of entrepreneurs when starting up. Yeah, but that's another discussion. I'm hoping the Ministry will lean on these topics. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u15	Thank you very much, sir. And please, Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club. Ms Genowefa Tokarska made her statement in writing. Are you an MP? [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: I am.]] Sorry, there's been a change. Mrs Henning-Kloska. Excuse me, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u16	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I regret that, unfortunately, because the committee meeting was held last week during the session of the Sejm, at which important laws were prosecuted, I could not participate in it because a person could not split. I wanted to express my quite critical opinion today, the fear of the changes being made. And yes, it is good that such a register is created, because it is good in one place to focus all information about active VAT taxpayers. This will make it easier, speed up the process of searching for data about entities included in the list by interested counterparties. And there is no doubt that the combination of the mentioned registers referred to by the Act will extend the possibility for taxpayers to verify information about their contractors and thus may facilitate the elimination of doubts, the elimination of inconveniences. I see one fundamental problem, Minister - I do not really know whether it was discussed at the committee meeting at all, whether it was by the social side, by companies or by any of the Members, because I was dealing with other matters at that time in the plenary room - namely that you are extending this register to include a set of accounts and transfer to buyers, payers at the same time, the obligation to verify this account, whether it is actually paid for on the account which is included in the register of active VAT taxpayers or to another. If this is another account, the trader is obliged to make this payment and inform the tax office. But I wonder if anyone thought that today payments in medium and large companies are not made manually. There's no one there manually checking the billing number. Today, in fact, most medium-sized and large enterprises carry out their accounts in such a way that they use the electronic banking they use in the context of the accounts and which automatically sucks the accounts and invoices out of the financial and accounting programme. And the question is whether the tax office will make available to the companies some kind of tip that will automatically be able to verify this bill. Because if you don't, what you're doing today is forcing entrepreneurs to move back to the time, I don't know, 20 years ago, when payments to contractors were made by the accounting staff of X, Y, Z companies in a manual and humanly verified way. Today a normal company, which sometimes has thousands of bills to pay within a month, does not function in this way. Today, this type of settlement, as I said, takes place in a fairly automated manner, actually only and only at the end of the payment process, a certain person who accepts a package of transfers sent to the bank and indirectly ultimately to his counterparties. On the other hand, we want to enter a register and oblige payers to pay exclusively for the bill indicated, as I said, in the register. And the question is, do we give them any tools that will automatically allow these payments to be made and these accounts verified? If not, then the effect of this at the end of the day is, Minister, that you are forcing companies to employ, to additional posts in accounting and, as I said, to return to how accounting departments operated in Polish companies 20 years ago. Because no one is manually verifying it today, and let's be honest about what it looks like in practice - every time a payment is made, the entrepreneur will have to verify this account, because his contractor will be able to change this account at any time and has to inform only the tax office, not his contractors. I see a huge problem here, Minister, although I understand that the single register of active VAT taxpayers itself and the gathering of all information about them in one place, with the solidarity of the responsibility of businesses to pay VAT, is necessary. On the other hand, as regards this account and the obligation to verify carried over to traders [[♪ The bell ♪]] I have great concerns about how this is going to work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u17	Thank you very much, Member. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to subscribe to the question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. One minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u18	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The project undoubtedly introduces a high transparency on the economic market and clearly increases its safety, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. However, as we discussed at the previous meeting of the Sejm, joint and several liability and failure to settle the costs of obtaining income, despite the creation of mechanisms freeing from negative sanctions, are obstacles for entrepreneurs. In addition, date of entry into force - 1 September 2019 It seems too early and despite the calming assurances made by the Ministry in practice, it may prove impossible to achieve such a major change. I wanted to ask: If, given the size of this operation and the additional obligations introduced for entrepreneurs, the date of entry into force will be postponed even [[♪ The bell ♪]] A few months? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u19	Thank you, Member. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u20	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I would like to ask the following question: Does the taxpayer have the right to a right which is legible and understandable? It's actually a rhetorical question, but it translates into specific records. Read the change you're making in the article. 2 in the field of personal income tax, new article in the form of... I'm not gonna quote because I just can't fit in time. Is anybody here watching over the poloniastic adjustment? Does anyone here know what the default is and how to construct it so that people can understand the content of the tasks multiple times? These records are outrageous. This is not the way to edit the law. I ask you to interpret this recipe in human language, because this will be the first interpretation I'll make available, the obscure one. [[♪ The bell ♪]] A recipe. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u21	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u22	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Let me get a little bit into the role of Minister and answer Mr Wilczyński: That is why we create such complicated rules so that someone can interpret them later, someone could change them to create the impression that we are working so hard in the Parliament's Chamber, unfortunately. But I have a question for the Minister. Minister, how do you like such a solution to combine this register - in a sense, to automate - with invoicing programs, so that someone, for example. enter the data of the counterparty... The point is simply to make it automatically, whether the contractor is glowing in proverbial red or green. Do you think this solution is a good solution, and if it is a good solution, when can we expect it to be implemented? And then the next question is: What kind of country do you want to give facilitations or incentives to the invoicing programme developers, but that they should accept such a solution, on the basis of encouragement rather than coercion? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u23	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Wojciech Sharama, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u24	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Government of Law and Justice has done a great deal to make tax legislation simpler, easier to apply so that they are more beneficial for entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized companies. There is no doubt that we have done so much about sealing the tax system that we could make great social investments. However, there are voices here that these regulations will complicate the lives of small and medium-sized companies. There is such a double voice here, and this also applies to Members of the opposition. On the one hand, it is commendable that the register is needed and that it will make small and medium-sized companies feel safer, on the other hand, there are allegations that the rules are illegible, absurd. In my mind, in the sense of the club, this bill is moving towards improvement. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises. Here I ask the Minister for a clear answer whether these regulations will make life easier for small businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u25	Thank you very much, sir. Before I ask Minister Filip Świtała to answer the question, I wanted to welcome the group from Tarnów: Radio RDN Małopolska in Tarnów and students from the Non-Public Schools Group in Tarnów with guardians. Welcome. [[Applause]] I ask the Minister to answer his questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u26	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for this debate and the questions. I wanted to start by referring to the comments that were made by Members during the debate. As for Mr Cichoń's reservations that the committee... The question was whether there was a legal commission or if there was an office here. Legislating hasn't made a lot of changes. In fact, it was a change that repeated itself throughout the bill. We replaced one word with another, more descriptive. It could have stayed the way it was. Ex-law committee. So that it might seem like a lot of changes, and that was a really formal change. With regard to Mr Grabowski's speech, who had previously asked whether the government envisaged any solutions regarding, as I understand it, payment congestion, yes, we do. I will say that today is even a meeting of the Permanent Committee of the Council of Ministers, which will be examining the law on combating payment congestion. I'm in a hurry to get there. I hope I can make it. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: But, Minister, will there be automation or not? Because our support depends on it.]] I'll tell you what, I'll answer all the questions one at a time. With regard to Mrs Hennig-Kloska's speech on whether it would be automatic, of course, we immediately anticipated that it would be completely automatic. From September 1, we will make available a function called API. In computer science, it is that you can download data into your system and the system automatically verify this data, which means that ultimately it will be so that in the business accounting system there will be a warning that this account is not reported in the list, and there will be a question whether you actually want to make a payment. This will be possible from September 1st, it will be made available by the Ministry of Finance for download and everyone will be able to download it from it. The next question that Members have raised when they ask questions, Mrs Navel's question, whether it is feasible or whether we can actually do it. As I said before, there is a project team in the ministry that implements this solution. This solution will be made available to taxpayers from 1 September 2019 and we do not think that there will be any transfers here, provided, of course, that the entire legislative process goes smoothly. Mr Wilczyński's question on the interpretation of the article. 2. In fact, these are regulations, this is a whole set of laws amending the Personal Income Tax Act. [[It's about readability.]] In short, this provision states that if a person makes a payment to a counterparty's bank account which is not shown in the VAT register, then that payment cannot be considered as a cost of obtaining income unless the taxable person reports to the tax office that he has made such a payment to that account which is not reported. Then it's at his expense. That's it. So much for the recipe. Believe me, these laws have been examined by lawyers, by the RCL, by the law committee. [[The Polonists, too?]] Unfortunately, this is what legislation looks like, and it's not easy to write. Mr Grabowski of Kukiz,15, asked if there would be automation of this register. I've already given you my answer. There'll be automation, absolutely. We'll put this data out for taxpayers to download. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: We hold you to that.]] I think all companies producing so-called. accounting software will be happy to adapt to this change. What's more, I wanted to tell you that at present it is so that accounting software produced by different companies does not work together, they are not compatible with each other. The only institution, the only software that connects them, is ours, i.e. JPK VAT or JPK files in general. This is a software that allows you to transfer data between uncompatible software of financial and accounting companies or produced by companies producing financial and accounting software. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: And these numbers will function within this software, right?]] This will be within the framework of this software available. So that it will be in this universally accessible system. It's all gonna work. Another point is Mr Sharama's question whether this will make it easier for small entrepreneurs to operate. Of course, because it will significantly enhance the safety of trading, because a taxable person who has full information about his contractor resulting from VAT, from his, say, VAT activities, from whether he registered or once registered, why he was registering out, what account he has, whether it's the account I pay for, is in a much safer situation than it was before 2016, when we first introduced this type of solution - because it's not like we're just introducing them, we consolidate existing registers - when it was only possible to verify whether the taxable person has a number, or whether such a NIP number is in the system as registered for VAT. That's it. You will admit that this is a significant improvement when I have full information about when he registered, when he checked out, for what reasons, what account he has and that this account is safe, the one I can deposit on. So that this is a significant improvement for small and medium-sized enterprises. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u27	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u28	High Izbo! On behalf of the PSL-UED Club, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the committee on the Government's draft law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and on certain other laws, prints no. 3301 and 3360. The Committee on Public Finance analysed the project and supplemented it by two substantive amendments of a more specific nature and several legislative amendments. The main objective of the project is to maintain a fairly detailed list of taxable persons - all taxable persons - by the head of the KAS on the BIP MF website and through the Central Register and Information System on Economic Activity. The project seals the VAT system and allows taxable persons to verify their counterparties and thus avoid unfair transactions. The PSL-UED Club supports the solutions contained in the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u29	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Health on the Government's draft law on health care for students (prints No. 3297 and 3361). I ask Mrs Anna April to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u30	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Health, print no.3361, on the Government's draft law on health care for students, print no. 3297. The project entered the Sejm on 14 March 2019 and Mr Marshal addressed it to the first reading in the Education Committee and the Health Committee on 21 March. The first reading took place at the previous meeting, which was held on 3 April. Drafting amendments were proposed during the first reading, which were reported mainly by the Legislative Bureau. The amendments were accepted by the committees. I would like to say a few words about the project. The aim of the draft law on the health care of students is to ensure equal access to healthcare at school regardless of the place of residence of the student and the type of school and to increase the efficiency of public-funded health services provided under this care. The Act - one can say in a few simplest words - restores the offices of health prevention at school, and dental care will be carried out by a dentist in a dental office in a school or in a study outside the school or in a dentist's office. Therefore, on behalf of the joint committees, I kindly ask the High Sejm to approve the attached bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u31	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to ask Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u32	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the Law and Justice Club on the Law on Health Care for Students. This law sets out the objectives and scope of care, care providers and the organisation of care conditions, rules for integrating healthcare into students, organisations, funding, monitoring, documenting and reporting on the performance of childcare tasks. The scope of the Act covers pupils of all types and levels of schools up to the age of 19, except for adult schools. The scope of the school's health care includes prevention and promotion of health and dental care. Health care is provided in cooperation with parents or an adult student. Prophylactic and dental care shall be provided in the absence of opposition from parents or adults. Parents' written consent requires the care of chronically ill and disabled students. The aim of caring for students is to develop health-enhancing attitudes and to take responsibility for their own health through health care activities, disease prevention, including infectious diseases, early detection of disease risks and disease risk factors, education and health promotion, physical activity and a proper diet. Care also includes first aid in the event of an incident, the consequences of which require medical attention. A student's preventive care is provided by a nurse or a school hygienist who is well prepared for these tasks. Dental care is provided by a dentist who has entered into an appropriate contract with the NFZ for the provision of health care services. A dental hygienist with appropriate professional training may participate in dental care. The school's principal and the school's host body provide the conditions for the organization of health care and the possibility of using the medical and dental care cabinet. The school head shall cooperate with healthcare providers and parents to ensure organisational conditions for care. The health care of pupils in the teaching and upbringing environment is carried out in the health prevention office located in the school or in the place specified in the contract if there is no office in the school. Similarly, dental care is provided in a study located in the school or in the office defined in the service contract. Parents and adults can choose another dentist. The dentist cooperates with a nurse or a hygienist in the promotion, education and prevention of the mouth. The tasks of a nurse or a school hygienist are to integrate the health care of pupils in order to support parents in the implementation of the right to health services, to integrate the medical care activities of a student performed by a nurse or a hygienist, in cooperation with a primary healthcare team, with a primary healthcare professional in the field of exchange of information on the student's health status, joint actions in the field of prevention, diagnosis, treatment of diseases, rehabilitation, care, promotion and education. Similarly, a nurse works with a dentist. The financing of health care is entrusted to the NFZ. The Act entrusts the task of monitoring the care of the voivode and the Institute of Mother and Child. The bill is valid, necessary, expected for 20 years by parents, doctors, and especially dentists. I will mention Dr. Ryszard Majkowski, an employee of the Medical University in Warsaw, who for many years fought for this bill and asked for children to be treated and cared for in terms of their health, dental care, reminding constantly that 92% Twelve-year-olds have caries. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The Law and Justice Club appreciates the importance of this law in terms of health promotion, education, prevention, dental care, coordination. It also appreciates the level of preparation of this law, as well as the efforts made by the Ministry of Health, as well as all those cooperating in the preparation of this law. He expresses his great appreciation for the Ministry of Health and will, of course, vote in favour of the bill submitted to the High House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u33	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Alicja Chybicka, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u34	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an opinion on the government's draft law on health care for students from print no. 3297. There is already an error in the title of the Act, because it focuses mainly on dental care, while the child requires primarily medical care. At present - not in schools - health balances include comprehensive studies of a healthy child up to 18 years of age and at school age, unfortunately only six are included. - Ten. - 16- and 18-year-olds. This is far too little. The doctor evaluates the child's physical, mental development, vision, hearing, posture defects. The most important really is the early detection of symptoms of the disease, or actually symptoms that may suggest serious diseases, chronic diseases, often life-threatening diseases, which in Poland are recognized in high stages of their progression, such as. diabetes, where children fall asleep on benches, severe allergies, heart defects, rheumatological diseases, cancers. Doctors have this skill after 6 years of study, and it often takes a longer period of experience. This law entrusts health care to students, just this alertness, to a school nurse and to a hygienist. Is she able to do this job properly? Children under the age of 19, excluding a group of students, are covered by care. The care includes the promotion of health and dental care provided by a dentist by a dental hygienist in a dental office in a school, in a dentobus - a question arises of what is currently happening with dentobuses - in another place. This office in another place raises great doubts about the fact that the students - so written in the bill - in this office are to use the services outside the order. In many small towns it can cause, and probably will, the lack of availability of a dentist for other residents. The benefits that are saved in the bill are very beneficial for children. These include adaptive visit, milk teeth impregnation, cavity filling, endodontic treatment, preventive protection of furrow with a crevice lacquer and many, many others. Although this law does not provide children with comprehensive medical care, including medical examination of every child carried out once a year, and this is exactly what should be done in order for the child to be physically and mentally healthy, the Civic Platform Club will support this law because it has in its heart everything that is good for children and what is done for children. However, we could use a bill in the future that will take care not only of the child's teeth, but also of his whole body, his mind, and what will happen to him. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u35	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u36	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Prophylaxis is extremely important and introduced by law at the moment quite idealistic solutions, because they are idealistic, they are certainly noteworthy. Why idealistic? Because the project assumes - you mentioned this earlier - that there will be nurses and hygienists in schools. But the question is, where do these nurses come from? I consulted after my first reading in my constituency, talked to the nurses, and I'm afraid there's going to be a practical problem here that we just won't be willing to work in schools. As for hygienists, I don't have the knowledge to tell if they're gonna have the opportunity to work in schools. As far as the whole of the project is concerned, it is mainly aimed at dentistry. This is a very important thing, because dental problems, caries affect children from early school and as much as possible you need to do everything to direct parents' attention - in this case not children, because they are too small - to care for oral hygiene and to react quickly. It is known that finance is also a barrier. This project is kind of a continuation. This may not be the best word, but I would like to tell you that one of our Members, a Member from Pomerania, Andrzej Kobylarz, is the coordinator of the pilot program in Prusz Gdańsk, which includes free dental treatment for students in this city. It's under the NFZ and it works. So that one day I will be very encouraging you to listen. We are planning a press conference and a briefing with the authors of this program to tell you how it can be done. This bill, let's say, is catching up on what we did earlier. But there are also some things in this bill that raise my doubts of an economic nature, because I can't imagine very much in the state of finance right now, where you're going to get it or where the local governments are going to take the money to equip or fully equip dental offices in schools. That's one thing. The second thing: I don't really see in practice the possibility of carrying out the care of the Poz doctor, because here is the assumption that the nurse will be such a transmission bridge between the children at school and the Poz doctor. Let's not hide: POZ doctors have so long queues to admit patients in normal mode that somehow I don't see the possibility that in practice this will pass the exam. As far as the issue of finance is concerned, this reform - important - puts all responsibility for funding on local governments and also does not know if all local governments in our country will be able to deal with this problem. Of course, we need to move towards prevention. I am sure you have heard that in the countries that have the most advanced health care in Europe, here I would like to mention Denmark, the subject of health knowledge has been introduced into the whole education programme - that was probably 20 years ago - and children were taught how to take care of their health, so that they are aware that no one will take better care of their health than they themselves. Of course, it is in later life that more reaches consciousness. The economic effects of this solution were really very good. At the moment, Denmark has a completely opposite proportion of spending funds to finance public health services, we have really reversed proportions in relation to Polish expenditures. In Poland, it mainly consumes hospital expenditure, and Denmark has actually reversed it and is currently spending most of its resources on prevention, early detection, and it really pays off. With regard to health care, there is no need to be motivated by the desire for profit, but with regard to informed health care, budget resources can be spent wisely so that they are directed for the benefit of patients. I'm sure this project needs support. I can't imagine anyone voting against it, because prevention is a challenge of the time and it's high time to bring it into schools, although, as I say, it's a theory, and I'm afraid practice is going to put us a little bit in front of the wall, but let's all try to solve these problems together for health, because health is the most important thing in people's lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u37	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Krystian Jarubas, Polish People's Party - European Democrats' Union.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u38	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I am pleased to present my position towards the government draft law on health care for students, print no. 3297. Ladies and gentlemen! The bill on health care for students is a project from a category that, quoting the classics, we can define as obvious. There is no person in this room who does not want to show concern for the health and condition of Polish youth. It is also obvious that, as with the government's projects, I will use a medical slogan: diagnosis of good, worse with treatment. The patient may not die, but the hands fall down as the treatment progresses. And figuratively, literally. Ladies and gentlemen! 24 million PLN - so they cost so-called. dentobuses. But the problem has only just begun. Last year, the local press reported that in various parts of Poland there is no one to drive dentobuses. For example, no eager dentist came to Lublin and the competitions had to be rewritten. Doctors already last year warned that one dentist cost 1.5 million PLN. For this sum of 100,000, you can completely equip 15 offices, and in all Poland 15 times 16, i.e. 240 modern offices. Such offices could be opened every other day throughout the year, allowing for long-term treatment. And it wouldn't be a problem to bid on gas or find a driver, etc. But that's not the end of the problem. A parent's consent is required to carry out tests or treatments in children. While the general consent issued before the visit may be sufficient in the case of examination of the pupil, for example, in the case of the student. to remove the tooth, a specific consent is needed for such a procedure, and when the dentist arrives at school during school hours, there will most likely be no parent who can give such consent. Starting treatment without that, the dentist will be exposed to legal problems. It may seem grotesque, but I assure you, from the doctor's point of view, it is not. Ladies and gentlemen! Nobody wants to put themselves in unnecessary trouble. All the more reason for such problems should not put a functioning state at risk for its citizens. Unfortunately, the report published by the Supreme Audit Chamber in mid-2018 shows that the main problem of the student care system is the lack of systemic solutions where only ad hoc preventive measures are taken. Is it possible to say that the state is functioning smoothly? I'll probably hear in a minute that it's the local government's fault. No, nothing is more wrong, because the local government has no influence on staff shortages, for example. A dentist's doctor to work on a dentist's bus. And it is the lack of staff that causes the poor situation in the health care of students. Ladies and gentlemen! Another particularly important issue in dentistry is financial expenditure. Effective dental care for students will not be possible unless the National Health Fund spends more on this field of medicine. Therefore, from this point of view, I appeal to government representatives: if you are giving new tasks to local governments, give them tools as well. In this case, tools are additional measures. I would like to remind you that it was the Polish People's Party that requested a successful increase in the percentage of GDP for health care. Today, in times of economic growth, this should be happening. Ladies and gentlemen! As my previous speakers said, I don't think there's anyone in this room who's going to vote against this bill. Therefore, the club of the Polish People's Party - the European Union of Democrats will support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u39	Thank you, sir. Mr Marek Ruciński made his statement in writing. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Circle of Members of Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u40	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Government's draft law on health care for students, prints no. 3297 and 3361. None of us, I believe, have any doubt that we should take special care of the health of the youngest citizens. Unfortunately, there are currently differences in access to healthcare in schools. There is a lack of systemic preventive measures, as well as integrated dental care. No one is holistically monitoring the reality of available health and dental care in schools, which unfortunately does not allow a clear assessment of the scale of the problem. One thing is certain: the problem exists and I am pleased that the government has undertaken to resolve it. The aim of this bill is to ensure equal access to healthcare in schools regardless of the place of residence of the student and the type of school he attends. Under these regulations, parents will receive real aid in the form of effective implementation of the student's right to health services provided by a nurse to the teaching and upbringing environment or to a school hygienist. The problem at school, as indicated by the response to the interpellation that I wrote on the subject, is also how to take care of students who are chronically ill and disabled in educational institutions. Although, during the discussions on the project so far, they felt that its scope was small, I agree with the opinion that it could provide an important basis for building a functioning system. Unfortunately, so far this aspect of the functioning of Polish educational institutions has been neglected. This law is therefore very necessary and long-awaited. We must remember that it is at school that students mostly develop their attitudes and develop their habits. Therefore, as a country, we should strengthen our efforts in this area and ensure that the attitudes raised from school are responsible and serve the interests of health. The Free and Solidarni Circle fully supports and will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u41	Thank you, Member. Members have asked questions. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. Mr Szczerba, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, will be the first to speak. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u42	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I feel like this is where you have to repeat it: you just didn't make it. I recall the campaign in 2015 and remember Beata Szydło, who during the campaign noisyly announced the creation of dental offices in every school. What did Beata Szydło say during the TV interview? She convinced me it wasn't much of a cost. I feel like these four years have shown that nothing has changed in this case, you haven't done anything. The Dentobus project didn't work. What else is the problem? The problem is that you want to develop the preventive-health clinics that are supposed to be used by nurses. Do you know what the average age of Polish nurses is? It's 51 years. You do not encourage young women, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The young Poles took a job in this profession. Nor do they because of the scandalous wages you offer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u43	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Grzegorz July, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u44	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The law we are investigating is, in a way, a law that is supposed to give something good to Polish children in Polish schools. However, let's be honest, we are proceeding over it at a time when it seems that the biggest problem of Polish school is not oral hygiene. Surely there are bigger problems that concern Polish education and education. Nevertheless, if school is the place where we should take care of our young people and their health, it seems that this is not enough. Shouldn't we talk about a law that will help students with the much more serious health problems they face: are they heart disease, cancer or severe allergies that we have mentioned here? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will there be any further laws following this project? That's my first question. My second question: Will the funds and costs of this law be transferred to local governments again? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u45	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Iwona Krawczyk, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u46	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The contested law concerns three areas: education, health and self-government. What do we got now? In education, teachers strike, there are big problems, and health care is collapsing. We are investigating a law which, in part, refers to the organisation of offices and the signing of contracts, transfers responsibility to the director and the local government. My question is: What funds have been earmarked for the implementation of the provisions of this law? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u47	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Alicja Chybicka, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u48	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! My question is: When will the Ministry of Health take care of the real medical care of the population of developmental age in schools? Because what's right now... Everyone knows very well that right now the best part of the dental system, which is going to be somehow by the local government, will probably be the best part. But when will true care for a healthy child return? When will Polish children recognize diseases in the germ? When will it be that if anything happens to them in schools, will it be the right reaction? Because right now -- I don't want to give examples here -- she's not right. When is school gonna be able to control this group as well as it should be? The number of vaccinations is now falling. Education itself is very important and very important and prevention about how to live healthyly, too, but actually [[♪ The bell ♪]] you must fight for the lives and health of these children, and at the moment it is not secured at school. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u49	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u50	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! It is true that the bill is very expected, but this was not the law. This project is very modest, and it doesn't really change much about what it is. I wanted to ask you about the dentobuses. When over a year ago they were bought from the state budget and in the Sejm there was a discussion on this subject, the Ministry of Health ensured what a revolution would be in dental care in remote places. So? Please respond to the extent to which dentobuses are used, where they arrive, how many patients use this care and whether these dentobuses also include schoolchildren. This is a very important question, because we are thinking again that dentobuses will be used for dental services. And second question. Recently, the National Health Fund changed its financial plan. There was a draft of these changes in the finance committee. There were no records. [[♪ The bell ♪]] About babysitting, about medical care. How much money, and where will it come from? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u51	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Urszula Rusecka, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u52	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Yes, children's health should be taken care of and we all agree here. On the other hand, I wanted to raise the issue of caries, Minister. We're all talking about it, but... [[30 million for dentobuses.]] Member, I did not disturb you. I would like to quote, if you wish, the 2015 report by the Ombudsman, who has been monitoring and informing the then Minister of Health and Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz about the difficult situation with regard to caries among children since 2008. In fact, it was called caries epidemic. So my question, Minister, is, will this bill improve this situation when it comes to dentistry? We know that in 2015 the funds for dentistry from the NFZ were 1570 million. What amount in this current budget of the National Health Fund [[♪ The bell ♪]] is it secure for dental services? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u53	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u54	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The government is very flattered about this project, but a number of shortcomings of this law cannot be overlooked. I would like to start by asking: What are the costs of introducing these solutions and who will bear them - the state budget or the local governments again? Care is provided for in a wide range of ways, but will appropriate measures and tools be put in place to ensure that care is exercised? In the project, we can find a small amount of money for this purpose. In addition, account should be taken of the current state of health and dental care for students in schools, which, as we know, is not satisfactory. The proposed statutory regulations do not give the impression of solving this problem, absolutely, are unrealistic and very short-term. Is this project [[♪ The bell ♪]] was consulted with educational institutions, local governments and dentists? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u55	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u56	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The health care of students is to be implemented by local authorities with their own resources for 5.50 per student, when the state budget wants to spend 75 000 in the country. The question is how? And, of course, there is a question about the involvement of the National Health Fund funds, of which there is no information: What will be the expenditures since this year and next year, and in the years to come? And it's very important, I mean. Individual teaching of children and young people, which according to the MEN regulation - in a moment I will give them to the Minister - takes place at home, cannot take place at school. I have raised this issue already during the debate on the education system. Take a look at this regulation, because if medical care is to take place at school, then how is it that these children are to be sent to this school when individual teaching takes place at home. Isn't there a discrepancy here? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please lean on the fate of the sick students who learn at home. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u57	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u58	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Almost complete privatisation of dentistry led to a rapid increase in caries, especially among children. This generates numerous diseases, especially heart disease, gastrointestinal diseases and others. I would like to ask you to what extent the benefits provided in the put-in dentobuses cover the needs for dental examinations and treatments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u59	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz, Law and Justice. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u60	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I have a question for the Minister: Were there any draft laws in the Ministry of Health concerning the medical care of students left by the previous government? This law, Minister Miłkowski explained it, worked for a long time, consulted, calculated the costs, discussed the staff. Therefore, I ask: were there any traces of the work of the previous government on such a bill? This problem is known to me, at least since 1999, when I held a conference on school medicine. That's when we presented all these problems. I'm just saying, did you use it? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What was the work? What was in the record? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u61	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Wypych, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u62	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the Ministry's representatives, for the Minister. Minister, are primary healthcare doctors exempt from the care of students, in particular from carrying out health balances in accordance with the applicable regulations? This is also the information that parents receive. There is a need to pay particular attention to this, even when it comes to the issues we are now talking about regarding dental care. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u63	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u64	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Babysitting Act we're talking about is extremely necessary. This law - that was the evaluation in committee - is so general that it does not solve any problem. I'm leaving the medical care case, I'm just talking dental care. This generality does not answer the basic questions: Will the child be treated dentally? Will it be treatment only from one to four, as it is said, to make it look nice, or will it cover all the teeth? Next question: How often will the dentobus arrive in the same village? The issue of parental consent has just been raised, e.g. to remove the tooth. The devil is in the details. As long as there is no answer or even a regulation, and there was no regulation to the bill, it is actually, sad to say, this law [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's a dead act. So I have one question: What are the dental needs in the financial sense that we have just mentioned, and what will be the assurance of these needs? I'm asking for an answer on the sum. What are the needs identified, and what financial opportunities will be available for the implementation of this law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u65	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Radosław Lubczyk, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u66	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm a dentist, so I know a little bit about it. At the Dentobus Act, I said it was a bad idea when it came to the money, but it was introduced. My question is, how many of these dentobuses have benefited? My idea of which I have been trying to convince local governments and people for a long time is not to introduce dentists to schools because it's impossible, and schools to introduce them to dental offices. That's what happens, some local governments use it. They have a pool of money, they give it to the offices, and a few schools from the region use these offices. Then there's no problem with your parents' consent. I study children from kindergarten in my office. I'm doing this as a health promotion. It's possible. Let's get the schools into the study. Then [[♪ The bell ♪]] Indeed, this effect will be satisfactory and the children will benefit from it. Physically, there's no way there's an office in schools. Of course, it is real in some schools, but 95% of schools do not have the possibility of creating dental offices - for infrastructure reasons and personal reasons, because we will not find as many doctors as would be in these schools. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u67	Thank you very much, sir. Please, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u68	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for this discussion, for the declared support and support of this law, because this is a very important law that reflects the concern of the current government, Parliament for the health of children and young people. This law is expected and comprehensively regulates the care of children and young people at school. To date, these tasks have been carried out in part by a family doctor, within the scope of his competence laid down in the requirements of the National Health Fund. These duties still exist. In your questions, there was this issue. I would like to say that the family doctor, the primary healthcare doctor, is to continue to carry out these tasks, which are defined in the contract agreement, is to continue to bear witness to the population that has declared it. The services provided by nurses and school hygienists were provided separately. So far it has been an area not fully correlated with the activities of a family doctor or an environmental and family nurse. This law therefore introduces the obligation of cooperation, the correlation of all these activities. As regards dentistry - as this area did not in principle cover children's and young people's health issues, we are putting a greater emphasis on the coordination of child dentistry benefits to be provided to pupils in the school community. You have paid attention to many elements. In fact, in these statements, there are several such doubts that I would like to resolve immediately, because they show that you have not read the law completely. The question of financing benefits. Once again, I would like to make you aware that the National Health Fund is responsible for health services in the field of childhood dentistry. The National Health Fund has financed, financed and will finance these benefits. No local authority is charged the cost of dental services provided to children and young people. In recent years, the National Health Fund has increased the value of the benefit given to children and young people in relation to the value that was valid at least four years ago, when the same value was attributed to the dental benefit given to the adult and the child. At present, the National Health Fund has raised the rate to 1.3, i.e. 30% above-price benefits to children and young people. That is not enough, we have increased the amount of funds allocated to the financing of these benefits. I would like to inform you that all benefits in the field of childhood dentistry are financed 100%. There is no concern that the doctor will not want to work or perform these benefits, because any benefit made to the child or youth will be financed 100%. The question of the resources that should be allocated to school offices, both prevention offices in which the nurse works, and dental offices. Ladies and gentlemen, after all, in 2017, you yourselves passed a law on specific rules for the financing of health services. You have set aside additional funds for the programme, which was dedicated to local governments. And among others. In 2017, as part of this programme, the Polish government allocated 153 million, which could be used by local authorities to equip prevention offices in schools. That 153 million was 100%. the amount necessary for the establishment of all offices in schools. And what happened? Ladies and gentlemen, local authorities, school owners, have applied for 53 million. The remaining funds have not been used. Also last year we announced a competition to fund the creation of dental offices in schools. We have allocated PLN 5 million to this task. And, ladies and gentlemen, local authorities have applied for less than PLN 4 million. We equipped them - if it was the will and courage of the local government, it was the money to fully equip these offices. As part of this dental program, ladies and gentlemen, we spent money on equipment, that was about 110 thousand. zł, but we also spent money on a preventive programme, i.e. health promotion and prevention of oral diseases. I regret that, unfortunately, the local authorities did not reach for these measures. And that is proof that the present government does not impose additional tasks without resources, because we have committed specific measures to these tasks. There was little because there was a problem whether the local government could create a dental office or not, as a result of the above, we regulated it in the act. This law clearly states that it is also the task of self-government to set up such an office, so that there is no doubt that it is possible to allocate funds for this, because the government, the state budget, has allocated funds to equip the offices precisely for the local government. So I do not share these concerns about shifting tasks to local governments at the same time as there is no possibility of securing funds. [[How much is it?]] It's about the dentobuses. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you - I do not know how you have such knowledge - that all the dentobuses have been working since last year. Not much, they're very popular. As you know, the schedule of work, the stay of the dentobus is determined by the healthcare provider who has won the competition procedure. It is established by this medicinal entity with the voivodship branch of the National Health Fund. And from the information gathered from the heads of the National Health Fund, we know that all dentobuses drive and perform a very good role, especially in these small environments, in small towns, small villages, where there are schools in which there are 50, 100 students in which there is no dental office, because the nearest dental office is within 15 km - there is no dental office, and it is not entirely proper to create this office in such a school. Therefore, the dentobus works very well here. By the end of the year, over 30,000 were granted in these dentobuses. advice to children - over 30,000. children took advantage of advice given in dentobuses. They play a very important role, because in addition to the preventive function, they also have an educational function. The team that arrives at a given school, the facility, is equipped with educational materials. In a child-friendly environment, there are activities designed to equip children with this knowledge, and you said that this is the most important. Yes, of course, spreading knowledge about healthy lifestyles is most important and these dentobuses play such a role in the environment. The matter of consent, the concern of the state for consent. Ladies and gentlemen, whether the benefit is provided in a dental office, by a family doctor, by a dentist, hospital or dentist, the same rules apply. It's gotta be okay. If a child comes to the school office without a parent, he can only have a preventive benefit, but without any intervention which would require the consent of the parent in accordance with the laws. This law, if you would draw attention to it, is currently regulating this issue. Preventive benefits, education, will take place on the basis of a lack of opposition from parents. If parents do not object, preventive, promotional measures may take place at this point. In the case of any intervention, however, there are general provisions that say that there must be parental consent. And every time, of course. That's the deal. Does it make it harder to work, e.g. In the dentist's office at school or the dentist's office? It'll be the same as any other office. If the doctor finds that there is a need for intervention, the child will be informed about it, the school nurse will be informed, as it follows from the provisions of the Act, the parent will know that the child needs to be given health care and will agree or decide to go to another doctor. This is a normal procedure that has been in force for a long time. As for the research that family doctors should do, I said at the beginning: nothing changes. The idea of working as a family doctor, as a primary health care doctor, was the environment of the whole family's comprehensive care and here we do not want to change anything. The family doctor will continue to take care of the child in a comprehensive manner, he will perform all the activities that result from the tasks included in the contract, while the provision of the school nurse is additional benefits due to the children. In the Act we also give the possibility for a school nurse to obtain information from a family doctor, from an environmental and family nurse to the extent necessary for the care of this child. So far, the nurse has basically had no legal basis to contact an environmental nurse or a family doctor and get information about the health of the child. This is where we regulate this issue and this is a very important element that will enable this comprehensiveness of health services. Ladies and gentlemen! About the equipment, the funding, I already told you. I can give concrete examples of funding, apart from those growths I was talking about. National Health Fund e.g. In 2016, the amount of 141 370 000 was allocated to dental care for children. zł. At the moment we spend 181 912 125 PLN. And it's obviously an increase. As I said, dental benefits are funded after performance, which means any doctor who does this can expect payment. One Member mentioned staff shortages. Ladies and gentlemen, dentists in dentobuses are, drive, perform benefits, so I do not know how you have such knowledge that no one wants to volunteer. With regard to the issue of nurses, their availability, the number of nurses at school, of course, we have a problem in general as regards medical staff, but it is the current government that has taken concrete measures to increase the number of nurses in the system and so we already have more nurses compared to e.g. of 2017 We've got $20,000. nurses more in Poland than in 2017. We've raised our wages. It's a lie to say right now that we're not doing anything to make pay more attractive. We've raised our wages by almost 30%. In September, the Minister of Health signed an agreement with the National Trade Union of Nurses and Obstetrics and the General Council of Nurses and Obstetrics, in which the basic salaries of nurses were increased by PLN 1100, and since July this year - by another PLN 100. That's what makes the nurses go back to the system. It's not just the ladies who graduate, they start work. In fact, the phenomenon of going abroad does not exist at all or is marginal. Nurses who haven't worked at all in the health care system are returning to the system. So that we have done a lot and the effects of these actions of the current government are already there. It is a pity that such actions have not been taken e.g. Five years ago, because at this point, we wouldn't have to complain about such a drastic lack of nurses. As far as education and prevention are concerned, of course this law is giving a particular role to these processes of prevention and health promotion. I want the nurse to be the coordinator. We want all those who care about the well-being of the child, teachers, directors, self-governments, who are the bodies running the schools to take part in this process of education of the child, education about a healthy lifestyle. We also want family doctors, dentists to take part in this very important and important process, and school nurses and hygienists are to coordinate this process. We want these prevention, promotional programmes to be implemented in a comprehensive way and to be prepared for the needs of the school concerned. We have a lot of evidence that different local authorities are implementing different kinds of programs, which are programs taken from other ideas and do not exactly respond to local needs. That's why we want the school nurse to be the coordinator of these programs, so that the money that is [[♪ The bell ♪]] in different entities, were issued according to needs. Once again, I would like to stress that the law does not burden local authorities in any way. Of course, if they want to start school dental offices now, they have the possibility, because so far it has not been fully possible in the law, they have the possibility, and there are many preventive programs implemented by the Ministry of Health, so they can occur here. However, the current government, when designing this law, because these works lasted long enough, already at the design stage, gave the possibility to finance tasks that will be defined in this law. So, in conclusion, thank you very much for the declarations of support for this law, because this is an important law, and I think that since the entry into force of this law we will all make every effort to make the health of children and young people and the oral health of children and young people a priority. I know that some of you, your fellow Members, believe that perhaps the issues that are now taking place in schools are more important than the student's health, but we represent the Ministry of Health and think that health is the most important thing in human life. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u69	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u70	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The aim of the project is to ensure equal access to school health care regardless of the place of residence of the student and the type of school. It is also about increasing the effectiveness of public health services financed by money. According to the project, health care for students at school is to cover prevention and dentistry. Health care is to be provided by a nurse in the teaching and upbringing environment or by a school hygienist and a dentist. The benefits will be provided in health prevention offices and, in the case of dentistry, in dental offices in or outside the school or in dentobuses. At this point, the question about the current functioning of the so-called. Dentobuses, which were to be one of the flagship ideas governing health prevention in schools. How is this system shaped today? Has access to them now been provided throughout the country? What is the scale of young patients' participation in this project?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u71	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position on the report of the committee on the Government's draft law on health care for students, in print no. 3297 and 3361. Giving high-level health prevention, emphasis on care and education from an early age, regular health reviews are passwords taken directly from the Modern program. Having read the draft law on health care for students contained in Seym printing 3297, I believed that Law and Justice would draw on good practices that function successfully in other countries, and that it would include those solutions which have been proposed by health promotion organisations for years. Unfortunately, it is difficult to respond positively to the proposed project in this shape. First of all, I would like to draw attention to the lack of safeguards in the Act of any financial means to carry out the tasks set out therein. According to the impact assessment, almost PLN 77 million will be needed for this purpose only this year. The funding of these activities will be based on local governments in 99%. This amount is expected to reach almost PLN 300 million over the next 10 years and the share of the central budget will remain low. My doubts are also raised about the availability of the benefits set out in the Act, namely preventive care and dental care. In the explanatory memorandum, the developer shall inform of the establishment of no less than 47 dental offices in schools under another dental prevention programme. This guarantees access to a dentist at the school premises in barely 0.25% in 18 thousand. educational institutions operating in Poland. Moreover, the projector, in order to save money for the organization of such offices in other schools, allows them to sign agreements with existing dental offices in the city. According to the General Medical Council only in Wielkopolska, implementation of the law will require commitment to these tasks 616 posts, while the number of posts currently contracted by the NFZ, including not only the treatment of children but also adults, is 627. So we clearly see that Wielkopolska dentists - if this law comes into force - will focus exclusively on the treatment of children. Only private dental care remains for other patients requiring assistance. Such a solution is absolutely unacceptable. In addition, the project states that students from schools with which the study has a signed agreement will be accepted outside the order. This will reduce access to dental care for adults and students who are already 19 years old. The latter are excluded from the program only because they have decided to study at the tech school, were born at the beginning of the year and have reached the age specified in the Act and had to repeat one of the classes. The final issue remains the valuation of dental benefits, which is currently at the verge of cost-effectiveness and, as time passes, the costs of these benefits will only increase. As a result, the number of NFZ performances may be decreasing as some of them will decide to move to the private sector. In the perspective of a few years, this may result not only in the aforementioned limitation of access to adult patients' benefits, but also in the inability to carry out the tasks provided for in this draft law. So, does it make any sense to introduce ad hoc solutions without a comprehensive strategy for the whole health system? The idea was right, as usual, because I don't think there's any doubt that health care at school is needed. However, the numerous legal gaps and a number of underdeveloped solutions in this project clearly indicate that the Law and Justice Government has simply corrupted this idea. The modern solution will not support the segregation of pupils, restricting adult patients' access to benefits and reducing the cost of making changes mainly to local governments. We're not voting for an increase in chaos in the health system.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u72	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The draft law on the health care of students is an expression of the difference between urban and rural environments in access to healthcare provided in schools, poor dental care and lack of coordination between different actors, including parents and carers. The Act aims to address these shortcomings and increase the effectiveness of public-funded health services provided under this care. In this connection, I have the following questions: What was the health care of students in schools so far? How many of them were covered by healthcare prevention offices, including how many offices were created after the introduction of the Law of 15 September 2017 on specific solutions to improve the quality and availability of health care services? What was the same situation with regard to dental services? What role have dentobuses played in this regard? What is the health care of students in Poland, both in terms of health prevention and dental care, compared to other countries of the European Union? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u73	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Products (Prints No. 3286 and 3373). I ask Mr Adam Oldakowski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u74	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I present the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Products, in print no. 3286 and 3373. The draft concerns the alignment of national legislation with European Union legislation on Union scales for the classification of carcases of bovine animals, pig and sheep and the reporting of market prices for certain categories of carcases and live animals. The amendments to the draft law provide: First, the clarification of the provisions enabling the classification of carcases to be carried out on a voluntary basis where, despite the possibility of exemption from that obligation, the entity decides to carry out such classification. Secondly, the repeal of the provisions enabling the operators of slaughterhouses not to carry out the classification in which they slaughter: only pigs born and fattened in the fattening houses of those slaughterhouses and all carcases obtained are cut; small quantities of bovine animals under contract with the owner. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, following its first reading and the examination of this draft law at its meeting on 10 April 2019, did not make any amendments, but the Legislative Bureau introduced a number of editorial comments. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u75	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Adam Oldakowski, Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice. Please, sir, again.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u76	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour on behalf of the club Law and Justice to present the position of the club on the draft law amending the act on the commercial quality of agri-food products. The proposed amendment to the Trade Quality Act on agri-food products aims at adapting the provisions of national law to the new legislation of the European Union, which is applicable from 11 July 2018. In accordance with the provisions in force, by way of derogation, Member States may decide that the application of the Community scale for grading pig carcases is not mandatory in the case of slaughterhouses where only slaughter of pigs born and fattened in their own fattening houses is carried out and which themselves take care of the removal of all the carcases obtained. According to the Act of 21 December 2000 on the commercial quality of agri-food products, the classification obligation does not apply to the smallest slaughterhouses, i.e. those which slaughter no more than 200 pigs or 75 bovine animals from 8 months of age on average a week. In the case of other traders, the only change is the introduction of sanctions for not passing on the results of grading pig carcases to suppliers. The derogation allowing the non-category of carcases in the case of slaughter of small quantities of animals under contract with the owner in practice falls within the derogation referred to in Article. Article 15a (1) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 3 lit. a, so the absence of it will not affect the situation of slaughterhouses. The derogation to avoid grading pig carcases where only pigs born and fattened in the fattening houses of those slaughterhouses were slaughtered in the slaughterhouse and all carcasses obtained were cut, in practice it was not widely used in Poland. None of the operators who slaughter pigs or bovine animals currently benefit from the abovementioned provisions. the rules, and therefore the changes made in this respect will not affect the situation of operators. The Law and Justice Club is in favour of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u77	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Artur Dunin, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u78	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I wanted to make a statement in connection with the amendment of the Trade Quality Act on agri-food products, print no. 3286. Ladies and gentlemen! The amendment of the law is evidently related to a delegated case, with the adaptation of Polish law to EU regulations. It is very happy that Law and Justice, this government, wants to introduce such a law in Poland. We know the reluctance of law and justice, and we know that you don't like this union that much, so... [[Come on. Arthur, don't say that.]] ... I'm very pleased that you're introducing this deregulation. Ladies and gentlemen! This deregulation is really related to the clarification of certain provisions of the law in force before Poland enters the European Union. Hence these changes are kind of forcing time, a new quality. The rules introduce, as I said, clarification of the provisions on the classification of carcases, the non-compliance with certain rules which were previously introduced. There are also provisions for the introduction of penalties for the non-application of methods for the automatic classification of carcases, the conduct of operators and the lack of information by the slaughterhouse to the persons concerned, namely producers. The law, which is, as I said, related to the introduction of EU law in Poland, was presented between 8 and 16 November last year for the opinion of interested parties. These parties did not comment. The same is true of yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. The Civic Platform Club also fails to comment on these changes and will vote in favour of the introduction of this law on the legal market. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u79	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u80	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz club15 on the report of the committee on the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Products, print no. 3286. The Kukiz Club15 does not comment on it. The only point I would like to make is that such regulations as they are proposed here should have been introduced in Poland long ago. It should not be that slaughterhouses have the freedom to provide the farmer with information on the classification or not. And the second point that we make here is that we finally impose penalties, that if an entity does not carry out information obligations, it will be punished. We believe that the introduction of laws without criminal sanctions makes no sense, because if there is a law and there is no penalty for not applying it, then, you might say, such a law should not be. To sum up, it is good that we are introducing this EU law, but as a sovereign country we could implement good solutions without the European Union's order, because we have Polish, good agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u81	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Marek Sawicki, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats. There's no envoy. Mrs Ewa Lieder sent her statement in writing. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask questions? There isn't. I'm closing the discussion and... [[What do you mean, no? I wanted to ask you a question.]] Excuse me. There you go, Mr Artur Dunin. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u82	Marshal, thank you very much. Minister! One question, actually, two. First question: How does this deregulation, this regulation that is now being introduced into the law, look in other countries? Whether we're getting ahead of the line again, or whether it's deregulation so-called. plus zero? That's one thing. And the second question is: Does this involve more costs for operators today? I would very much ask for an answer, because such questions from farmers were and I reassured that there would be no greater costs, but I would like this to be clear and clear from the Minister. Thank you very much. [[Me too. May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u83	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u84	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This law adapts Polish legislation to the recently amended and existing EU rules on the classification of carcases of bovine animals, pig carcases and sheep. Its aim is therefore to implement the relevant regulations and to apply EU legislation correctly. However, I wanted to ask: Will the changes put more pressure on the state budget than they are now? Can they cause any impediment to operators involved in the breeding and slaughter of animals covered by these regulations and their marketing? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Michael Szczerba. There isn't. Mr Mieczysław Miazga. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u86	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question for the Minister concerning post-mortem inspections for the classification of carcases which the establishment carries out in accordance with the Regulation. Of course, the test is carried out by a specialist qualified staff member after the course, who has the appropriate authority. The problem is that these allowances are issued, it is not known why, for a fixed period - 3 years. Is it possible to change them indefinitely? Minister, this would be very beneficial for financial and logistical reasons. I will also mention that these studies are under the control of the Provincial Provincial Provincial of Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Articles and it is the inspector who checks the reliability of this classification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u87	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Sachajko, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u88	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you how this bill affects farms. In fact, it's for the fattening industry. It is something that develops and destroys Polish family farms at an alarming rate in Poland. How does the State intend to reduce the activity, the presence of this large industrial fattening sector, and what further action will be taken to normalise the production of pigs in family farms rather than in combinations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u89	Thank you very much, sir. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Tadeusz Romanczuk to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u90	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Thank you very much for the work of the Committee on Agriculture and the rapporteur for presenting the report very honestly and I would like to answer a few questions at the same time. I send my thanks to the clubs whose representatives have spoken and which do not object and will vote in favour of the law. Indeed, the law introduces a uniform EU law. We're adjusting to that. All Member States are obliged to do so. That's the question. Therefore, Poland, as a member of the European Union, is also committed to implementing this law and we are implementing it by this law. As far as costs are concerned, this is a really cost-free act for farmers, because this was the President's question. And for the budget? There may be influence if there are penalties. Entities, legal persons, natural persons should act so that penalties are not paid. As far as the questions of the Member are concerned, there are at the moment provisions which provide that carcasses classificationrs are to be verified, evaluated once every 3 years. The point is that they simply have this ability, and therefore such examinations are carried out, you would say, and for the next three years it is allowed to evaluate beef, pig and ram carcasses. The law imposes a classification obligation. I've written down that this question came from the gym, and I don't remember who asked it anymore. That's it. [[I have a question, Minister. What does it look like in other countries? Are we getting ahead of the line or are we applying this as in other countries?]] Yeah, I get it. Your marshal?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u91	You're welcome. State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Tadeusz Romanczuk: I'll admit I'm not gonna answer in a detailed way where we are. The Act obliges all countries and we impose this obligation on ourselves as Poland. What does it look like in other countries? [[Are we going over?]] No. We are committed to making uniform European Union law, and therefore we do not go before or against it. Thank you. Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u92	The proposed amendment concerns the Act of 21 December 2000 on the commercial quality of agri-food products. In the course of the committee's work, only legislative corrections were adopted, which are not substantive in terms of the issues raised in the project, as they are editorial amendments. As a result of the revision of Union rules relating to the classification of carcases of bovine animals, pig carcases and sheep, it is necessary to implement and modify Polish law in this respect. We are therefore implementing the provisions of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2017/1182 and Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/1184 which entered into force on 11 July 2018. Who will be affected by the proposed changes? These will be slaughterhouses, pig suppliers to slaughterhouses and the Agricultural and Food Quality Inspection of Agricultural and Food Articles. The attention of operators of slaughterhouses of bovine animals and swine should be drawn to the addition of rules on penalties for those operators. New penalties will be imposed for non-compliance with the requirements of Article. 12 Regulation 2017/1182 using methods for the automatic grading of pig carcases for failure to provide animal suppliers with the results of grading pig carcases in accordance with Article. l Regulation 2017/1184, for not keeping daily records of the operation of automatic grading methods and for errors in determining the categories of bovine animals. During the public consultation, no comments related to the content of the project were received. Due to the need to implement EU legislation, the lack of critical comments from stakeholders and the lack of additional costs resulting from the changes made, the Modern Posel Club will vote in favour of the project. I would like to draw the attention of the Ministry of Agriculture to the protests of the inhabitants of Waplewa Wielki in Pomerania, where the largest pighouse in Poland is to be built for about 41 thousand. pigs. The former director of the Regional Environment Directorate in Gdańsk warned about the huge scale of mass production planned there, which will carry as much as 73 000. m3 manure per year, which will mean fetor and pollution of the environment, including emissions of harmful chemicals, for the inhabitants of Waplewo Wielki and surrounding areas. The farm is to be located right next to the forest where the protected birds nest. This issue requires the Ministry's involvement in the problem of harmful investments in the Pomerania area, where the number of industrial farming farms is increasing.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u93	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. I declare a five-minute break because there is no rapporteur. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 mins 09 hours 12 min 10]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of items 4 on the agenda: Report from the Infrastructure Commission on the Commission's draft law amending the Postal Law Act (prints 3315 and 3326). I would like to ask Mr Bogdan Rzońca to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u94	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, I present the report in print No 3326 on the Commission's draft law amending the Postal Law Act, print No 3315. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. 37 and Article 37 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1). 40 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent the above draft law to the Committee on The Infrastructure Commission, following its first reading and the examination of this draft law at its meeting on 2 April 2019, asks the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. Three amendments were tabled at the meeting, which were adopted unanimously. This law removes references to no longer applicable provisions in the Postal Law, as these provisions were included in another law - the Law on Things Found in 2015. I therefore propose, on behalf of the committee, that this report be adopted and that this law be further positive. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u95	Thank you very much, sir. I'm opening a discussion. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mr Peter King, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u96	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law amending the Postal Law Act, print Nos 3326 and 3315. It is worth recalling that the proposed law is a reaction of the Committee on Petitions to a petition addressed to the Sejm by Mr Sebastian Adamowicz, which the committee considered to be legitimate. The purpose of the Act is to remove the references currently contained in the Act of 23 November 2012. The Postal Law to the Non-Applicable Provisions of the Law of 23 April 1964. Civil Code and to introduce in this place the relevant substantive references to the provisions of the Law of 20 February 2015 on Things Found. Applicable provisions of the Postal Law in Article. Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 9 provides that where the opening of an undelivered consignment does not enable it to be served or returned to the consignor or if the consignor refuses to accept the returned consignment, the provisions of Article shall apply mutatis mutandis to the contents of the consignment other than correspondence. 183, Art. 184 and Article 184 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 187 of 23 April 1964. Civil Code. On the other hand, the article. 34 provides that the monetary amount specified in the postal transmission which cannot be delivered to the addressee shall be returned to the consignor and, where this is not possible due to the absence or error of the sender's address, the postal operator who has entered into a postal service contract with him shall apply the provisions of Article accordingly. 184 and Article 184 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 187 of 23 April 1964. Civil Code. Both of those provisions shall contain references to Article. 184 Civil Code and Art. Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 9 point 2 of the Postal Law - also to Article. 183 Civil Code. Those provisions have been repealed by Article. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It should therefore be considered that these provisions of the Postal Law contain empty references. The proposed law eliminates this condition by introducing references to the law on found goods, which comprehensively regulates the rules of dealing with things which the owner cannot establish or which cannot be delivered to the owner, among others. to a large extent by repeating the principles previously contained in Article. 183 and Article 183. 184 Civil Code. Therefore, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u97	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u98	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - Civic Coalition to the draft law amending the Postal Law Act, print no. 3315. As has already been said here, the scope of the bill concerns the handling of consignments which cannot be delivered, both with those typical postal consignments and with letters or packages, as well as money shipments. The need to amend the existing law results from references to the non-essential provisions of the Civil Code. This is where appropriate substantive references are made to the provisions of the Law on Things Found. This law entered into force in 2015 and repeals the provisions of Article. 183 and Article 183. 184 Civil Code to which references have been made in Article. 33 and Article 33 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of The fact that such a mistake has arisen is undoubtedly neglectful, but this only demonstrates the quality of the legislative process that is being implemented in this term of office. As this is a practically order matter, in a way technical, the Civic Coalition accepts these proposals. He will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u99	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Robert Mordak, Kukiz Club15. There's no envoy. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u100	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats in relation to the ongoing process of amending the Postal Law, prints no. 3315 and 3326, is of the opinion that the legislative process should continue. Our club will vote in favour of this bill. We believe that updating, adapting the provisions of existing legislation to the Single European Law and removing those provisions that are no longer obsolete, anachronistic, bring nothing, is a way of meeting expectations, necessity and simply fulfilling our obligation. These are provisions which do not regulate or indicate practical solutions, and laws already in force, and adopted in subsequent years, relating to the goods found, the delivery or non-delivery of physical items and postal messages containing means of payment. So our club will vote in favour of this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u101	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask a question? There are no volunteers. Would the Minister like to comment on these statements? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u102	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, the draft law, as my predecessors here from this lecturer reported, concerns postal operators and should not, in our view, have a significant impact on their functioning. The provisions of the Postal Law stated that the provisions of the Law of 23 April 1964 should apply mutatis mutandis to non-deliverable consignments whose content does not constitute correspondence. Where some of these provisions were repealed, operators could directly apply the provisions of the Law of 20 February 2015 on Findings, which comprehensively regulates this matter. No up-to-date references to existing provisions in Article. Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 9 (2) and Article 9 The 34th Postal Law was not an obstacle to the functioning of postal operators who did not signal problems in this regard. The government welcomes the draft law aimed at removing inconsistencies in the provisions of the Article. Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 9 (2) and Article 9 34 Postal Law with current legal provisions resulting from the repeal of Article. 183 and Article 183. 184 Civil Code Act. The proposed amendments refer to the relevant provisions of the Law of 20 February 2015 on Things Found and to the Article still in force. 187 Civil Code will allow for a comprehensive regulation of the rules of conduct of the postal operator with the content of non-merger mail and the handling of the sums of money specified in transfers of funds which cannot be delivered to the addressee or returned to the consignor. In view of the above, the government has expressed a positive view of the proposals contained in the Commission's draft law amending the Postal Law in print no. 3315. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u103	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. The Public Finance Commission submitted a report on the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on the Tax on the Extraction of Certain Copies, print No 3377. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in this case the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the wheels. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the Law on proceedings before administrative courts and certain other laws (Prints No. 3260 and 3330). I ask Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u104	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technology a report on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Procedure before Administrative Courts and some other laws, prints No. 3260 and 3330. The purpose of the submission, as indicated by the Council of Ministers, is to adapt the provisions of the Law on proceedings before administrative courts to the requirements arising from computerization to the extent necessary for the proper functioning of electronic judicial proceedings. The proposed law will enable all administrative courts to fully implement the IT system for the comprehensive handling of this procedure. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, sent the above draft law to the Committee on Justice and to the Committee on Digitisation for First Reading on 6 March 2019. Written opinions on the project were submitted by the Supreme Court, the National Judicial Council and the employers' association of Business Centre Club respectively, with only the latter organisation submitting comments on the project. Ms Wanda Buk, together with his colleagues, representatives of the Supreme Administrative Court, representative of the President of the Bar Council, Mr Dariusz Goliński and vice-president of the Polish Chamber of Patent Advocates Paweł Kurcman, as well as employees of the offices of the Justice and Digital Commission and the Legislative Office. At the joint meeting of the Commission: Justice and Human Rights and Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies on 2 April, the draft was presented by Minister Wanda Buk. There was a discussion about the project. All regulations have been systematically discussed. Corrective amendments and legislative amendments have been tabled. 13 Members voted in favour of the bill, no one opposed it, 3 abstentions. Therefore, the Commissions: Justice and Human Rights and Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies, after considering the draft law, ask the High Sejm to approve the attached draft of this law as proposed in the committee's report in print no. 3330. I would like to thank you, on this occasion, for the constructive cooperation between ladies and gentlemen, as well as all the participants in the committee's work. In the event of specific questions, I shall remain at the disposal of the High House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u105	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on the agenda item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Arkadiusz Czartoryski, the Law and Justice Club, is to be the first to speak. [[Witold Czarnecki, I think.]] That's not what I have. Well, Mr Witold Czarnecki, there is another name on the board. Thank you. I'm sorry, but there's something else in the papers, something else is on the board, so as you can see... But I am asking you very much, sir, because I have your name in my script. You're welcome. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u106	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I present my position towards the Government's draft law amending the Law on Procedure before Administrative Courts and certain other laws, Nos 3260 and 3330. The draft was examined by the joint committees on 2 April 2019. The aim of the project is to ensure that electronic judicial and administrative proceedings can function properly and that the future IT system is fully implemented before the entry into force of the Article. 4 of the Act of 10 January 2014 amending the Act on the informationization of activities of entities carrying out public tasks and certain other laws, i.e. on 31 May 2019, the parties and their representatives were given the opportunity to file pleadings in the form of electronic documents in judicial and administrative proceedings. The purpose of the Act is therefore to supplement and clarify the provisions introduced in the Law on Procedure before administrative courts. As a result of the entry into force of the project, in particular, the form in which letters are to be lodged in judicial and administrative proceedings by electronic means will be defined, secondly, the form in which judicial documents can be recorded in the case of an electronic file, because, if the proceedings are of an electronic nature, the files and judicial acts can be created and recorded electronically, and, thirdly, the new rules on access to judicial files for parties and participants in judicial proceedings - this is to allow non-electronic access to files which are available in the electronic system of the court. The revision procedure ensures the harmonisation of the legal system relating to the computerisation of legal proceedings by introducing legal and organisational arrangements similar to those currently in force in civil proceedings, which have been tested in practice and are known, for example. professional attorneys. To conclude, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the bill and at the same time wishes to submit to the Marshal amendments of an ordering nature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u107	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you for the correction. And please, Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u108	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, I would like to present my position on the draft law contained in the Parliamentary Report in print No 3330. First of all, I would like to stress that we have issued a positive assessment of this project as a whole, but we are stressing a negative. The point is that this project was not sent to the committee until April 2019 and concerns the implementation of the law adopted in January 2014 in the Sejm, which provides for the introduction of electronicisation into judicial and administrative proceedings. The main objective of this draft law is to introduce the possibility of exchanging correspondence electronically, both in relation to the party or the representative of the party - the court, as well as, what is important, between the representatives. In this way, it is excluded, or at least limited, a rather cumbersome exchange in this traditional paper way, which has always been burdened with the need to attach confirmations. Anyone who's ever dealt with this knows this procedure was quite archaic and embarrassing. In this respect, of course, this project is positive. In view of the above, as the rapporteur mentioned, this project did not arouse much emotion during the meeting of the Joint Committees, but there was a dispute which was raised by both parliamentarians and participants in this meeting as experts. The rapporteur left out this important point in his report and I believe that this report should be supplemented in this regard. Namely, there was a reasonable doubt about one of the provisions of the bill. It is a provision concerning the need for the representatives of the parties to indicate the PESEL number, whether the proceedings are conducted electronically or in a traditional, paper form, because the new regulations do not impose or exclude any of these two procedures. This proposal was explicitly criticised not only by parliamentarians, but also, as I mentioned, by the experts hosting the committee meeting. On the part of the Ministry of Digitalization, the author of this project, there was no explanation that could rationally justify such proposals. Any provision that is placed on the legal market should be clear and applicable and should not raise doubts, while the proposed wording raises more doubts than introduces clear situations. Some issues are omitted in the Act. What will be the application of this provision when a party is represented by several representatives? What happens when a change of proxy occurs in the course of the proceedings? This situation in this bill is ignored. What will happen when a proxy takes part in the matter? I would like to remind you that the Act requires the identification of the PESEL number of the representative in the first letter initiating the judicial administrative proceedings and does not provide for any additional, detailed regulations or exceptions in this respect. The following doubts also arise. Why give the PESEL number when there will be a paper-based correspondence exchange? Like I said, it's acceptable. There is also no answer to the question of what will be the protection of this sensitive representative of the party, the PESEL number, when it is in the judicial base. Let us remind you that it is necessary to provide PESEL numbers by pages in order to avoid possible errors of court. The representatives of the parties are not parties to the proceedings and in this case there is no such risk. We pointed out at the committee's meeting that a good solution is used in the general courts, where access to the electronic judicial system is safe. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, when we propose that this project be submitted for further work, we make a second-reading amendment to this aspect, which I have indicated. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u109	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15. There's no envoy. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u110	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I would like to present our position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Law on proceedings before administrative courts and some other laws, seym prints no. 3260 and 3330. The main purpose and purpose of the draft law amending the Law on proceedings before administrative courts and certain other laws is, in accordance with the justification of the project, to adapt the provisions of the Act to the requirements arising from computerization to the extent necessary for the proper functioning of electronic judicial proceedings and to enable all administrative courts to fully implement the electronic system for the comprehensive handling of this procedure. In addition, the aim is also to harmonise the provisions of the Law on proceedings before administrative courts in the field of computerisation of proceedings with the provisions on other judicial procedures. The draft complements and clarifies the provisions of the Act of 10 January 2014 amending the Act on the Informationization of Activities of Entities performing public tasks and certain other laws which introduced the electronicisation of administrative proceedings. High Izbo! The project in general deserves a positive assessment in relation to planned changes harmonising judicial procedures and clarifying the powers of prosecutors of the Public Prosecutor's Office of the State Treasury. The project extended the formal requirements by the page PESEL number and the proxy PESEL number, whether or not it is a private proxy, e.g. an employee or a professional agent. In particular, in the case of professional agents, the requirement for their identification of the PESEL number seems unnecessary, especially where they are generally identified in the performance of their professional activities by the number of entries on the list of the relevant professional self-government. The formal requirements are also extended to require that in the first letter in the case the number be indicated in the National Court Register and, in the absence thereof, the REGON identification number or the number in another relevant register or in the register, or the tax identification number of the party submitting the letter, which is not a natural person who is not required to enter it in the relevant register or in the register if it is required to hold it. This requirement must also be assessed negatively. This provision is illegible and incomprehensible, as multiple complex sentences equivalent, with combined and separate alternatives and punctuation likely to raise interpretational doubts. For the average recipient, it will not be clear in which cases the number in the National Court Register should be indicated and in which case the REGON number or the tax identification number or other registration number. In addition, the authors of the project completely ignore the long-standing and implemented in practice - for example, those cited in the justifications of the Business Law Act and the substantive laws related to the Business Law Act - the gradual departure from the use of the REGON number in favour of, for example, the tax identification number. In turn, the amendments to the provisions contained in the draft law deserve praise in so far as they extend the possibilities for digital and IT techniques to be used in the proceedings. The planned integration of IT technical solutions in the procedure seems to be very deep. Therefore, the basic requirement for the implementation of the project's objectives is the prudent and complete preparation of a good, fault-resistant, adequately secured and compliant IT system. In view of the above, the Polish People's Party Club - the European Union of Democrats is in favour of further proceding this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u111	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u112	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are observing the next stages of civilization development and increasing computerization of life. It is therefore not surprising that digitisation is also entering justice, but this is positive information, as it will make life easier for the parties to the proceedings, their representatives and agents, as well as for the courts, to increase efficiency and reduce the duration of proceedings. Nevertheless, consideration should be given to whether the proposed deadline for implementing this amendment is not very fast. The project is very extensive, involves a large number of changes, it will require many adjustments and transformations. In my view, this law needs to be further clarified. According to the project, the new regulations are to enter into force on 31 May this year. Will this date of entry into force of the amendment be further examined? Because, as in this House, we are the law: very quickly, very hasty, [[♪ The bell ♪]] so the effects are visible in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u113	Thank you very much, Member. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Digital Affairs, Minister Wanda Buk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u114	Dear Marshal! Dear Izbo! Mrs. Member! I'm answering the question. I know that it may seem very fast, it is about this deadline on 31 May 2019, given that we are already in April today, but I would like to point out that this is the deadline by which the vacathio legis of the last amendment expires. We want to make these changes in this period on purpose. This was agreed with the Supreme Administrative Court. We cooperate with him on an ongoing basis precisely because, in order not to create confusion, not to prepare a system that will need to be changed later, only so that the system can be run, which will have its final version. We've decided to bring it in as soon as possible so we can get these dates together. So that here, as far as this is concerned, I would like to calm down and say that this is actually intended, deliberate and agreed primarily with the IT system manager who is preparing this system. Yes? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u115	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u116	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Poselski Club on the government draft law amending the Law on proceedings before administrative courts and certain other laws, the Seym No. 3260. The draft law was the subject of legislative work at a joint meeting of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and of the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies. During the work of the two committees, legal doubts were raised regarding the scope of the project in question in the areas of: processing by the administrative court of the number of PESEL of a professional proxy, lack of clarification of the form of a copy of the judgment served to the authority after the finality of the judgment, lack of obligation to instruct on the form of a declaration of resignation from the service of letters by electronic means, the absence of exclusion of advisers from the General Prosecutor's Office for the provision of instructions on the date and manner of bringing an appeal, the absence of a requirement for the form of electronic document in the event of a reservation to the minutes established in the electronic system of the court and bearing a qualified electronic signature. The introduction of a personal signature as one of the means of authenticating or signing an electronic document will certainly facilitate the drawing up of electronic documents in judicial administrative proceedings, in view of allowing the use of the electronic layer of a new identity card. The possibility for a party to choose to bring and serve letters in the form of electronic documents from the date of entry into force of the amending law may cause temporary organisational difficulties in administrative courts resulting from the need to adapt more quickly to the new regulation. However, from the point of view of the case, this possibility must be assessed positively. Despite the necessary changes improving the project specified above, also indicated by the Sejm Analysis Office, the Posel Club Modern is in favour of further proceding the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u117	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Public Aid Procedure (Prints No. 3302 and 3335). I ask Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u118	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I am pleased to present a report by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the proceedings concerning public aid cases, print No. 3302. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed on 21 March 2019 the above draft law to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development for first reading. The Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 2 April 2019, requests the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law. I would like to point out that during the committee work there were no specific comments on this project. Most of the amendments that were tabled were legislative-editing amendments. They were accepted and voted out at the first reading. Therefore, I ask the High Sejm to pass the attached bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u119	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Ewa Malik, Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u120	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present an opinion on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Public Aid Procedure, Print Nos 3302 and 3335. The draft law amending the Law of 30 April 2004 in question aims to align the provisions of the Act with those contained in Commission Regulation No 1407/2013 of 18 December 2013 on the application of Article. 107 and Article 107. 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union for de minimis aid and Regulation (EU) No 651/2014 of the European Union of 17 June 2014 This document considers certain types of aid compatible with the internal market in application of Article. 107 and Article 107. 108 of the Treaty. The amendment also refers to the manner in which public aid providers submit reports to the President of the OMC. The amendment of the rules in this case means that the reports transmitted to the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection should also be addressed by those entities to supervisors. In addition, the draft provides for the repeal of Chapter 5 on State aid proceedings before the Court of Justice of the European Union by the President of the OOKiK, and on State aid, in agriculture or in fisheries, by the Minister responsible for agriculture. Ladies and gentlemen! This amendment did not give rise to any controversy at the meeting of the Economic Committee and was not addressed to the Committee on Economic Affairs. We have accepted a few less significant amendments, mostly editorial ones. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to recommend the bill contained in the parliamentary prints 3302 and 3335. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u121	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Antoni Mężydło, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u122	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club vis-à-vis the report of the Committee on Economics and Development on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Public Aid Procedure, prints No. 3302 and 3335. The government draft law from print No 3302 is technical in nature: it adapts the Polish legal system to the current European Union legislation. The project did not raise controversy at first reading in the Committee on Economics and Development. The project has no implementing character. We are not adopting this amendment with anything new, because it does not concern directives, but European Commission regulations. The rules that we are adopting today are already in force with us by virtue of the regulations themselves since their entry into force - some of them have been in force since 2013 and others since 2014, as this is the date of their implementation. This amendment only improves the readability of the European Commission regulations and formally introduces them into the Polish legal system. It will update the amended law accordingly. The draft law amending the Law on State aid proceedings aims to align the provisions of the Act with those of the European Union in de minimis aid cases - and this is a very important issue, because this aid plays an important role in Polish economic life - and the compatibility of certain types of aid with the internal market of the European Union. The project also changes the way in which public aid providers submit reports to the President of the OMC. They will report on the aid provided directly in the system, using the application rather than, as is currently the case, on the spreadsheet forms through the authorities that supervise it. If we improve the Public Finance Act, it will be possible to introduce a change allowing tax authorities to report directly to the Minister of Finance - also using the application. Until then, until there is a change of law and the Ministry changes the application system, they will also report to the President of the OOKiK. The project repeals the previous Chapter 5, which was an exception in the matter of representing the Republic of Poland in proceedings before the judicial authorities of the European Union in the field of State aid. As a rule, the representation of the Republic of Poland before the judicial authorities of the European Union in proceedings belongs to the Minister responsible for the accession of the Republic of Poland to the European Union. However, in Polish law today, public aid proceedings before the Court of the European Union are conducted by the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, and in the field of public aid in agriculture and fisheries - by the Minister responsible for agriculture. In addition, the draft in question adapts the references contained in the amended law to the current provisions of Union law. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Platform Club supports the solutions adopted and advocates the adoption of the law as set out in the committee's report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u123	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15. There isn't. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u124	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Polish People's Party - The Union of European Democrats also supports these solutions. They did not cause much controversy. They're clear and legible. As far as public aid is concerned, it must be uniform and consistent, it must not raise doubts, because later there are only complications. As far as financial resources are concerned, their use, both foreign and national, must be clear and transparent. Therefore, I will no longer repeat all the arguments that my predecessors have already put forward here. The law is clear, clear and clear, and we will therefore support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz made his statement in writing. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask a question? [[Yes.]] You're welcome, Mr Man. One minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u126	Dear Marshal! Minister! Since these provisions have been in force in Poland since 2013, the de minimis aid rules, this year's Minister of Agriculture... in fact, the aiding entity was the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, which granted drought aid to farmers in the de minimis aid formula, and it had to cancel at the end of 2018, in November 2018, because the total amount of this aid granted during the 3 tax years of Poland exceeded the limit, which was set as 1% annual production, i.e. the Polish limit was 25 700 thousand. Euros. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It wasn't until January that this program could be running again. This resulted in negative phenomena in Poland's agriculture. But I'm asking if... Maybe he'll answer me... Yes, you can answer me, Mr. President of the UOKiK, if Mr. President of the UOKiK agrees; I would ask for a competent answer. Now my point is, is this accumulation period really... because I think he's standard 2-year-old. And the minister for my... Three years old, right? Good. And now: Will this 3-year period apply - because it will certainly become pregnant for the next 2 years, because this year was exceptionally abundant in terms of de minimis aid for agriculture - will it also charge for this aid for the next 2 years? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u127	Thank you very much, sir. Will the president want to take the floor and... Please answer the question of the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, Mr. Marek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u128	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! All of you, all of you! While this question was more to the Ministry of Agriculture, since the de minimis is here and here, it is like two, let's call it so, legal regimes. From an entity's point of view, whether it's a farmer or an enterprise: in a 3-year period, I can normally get up to 200,000. Euros, unless I'm from another industry, where there are sometimes fewer. So here, if the farmer got, let's assume, in 2018, for the first time, if that were the case, it's 2018, 2019, 2020. What else is this limit per country, the 25 million euro. Here's the thing, if there's a lot of people willing, then this limit will just end early. I can compare that to another industry. As you may remember, there were various house credit subsidies, and whoever got into it at the beginning of the year could have had it, but if you didn't get it, sorry, didn't get it or didn't get it in that pot, then you couldn't get it in the next hand. So here it is not excluded that in 2019 the farmer will get it. Here we have actually a collision of two periods - one per subject and the other per country. I hope that I have somehow explained this to the Member. It is not that these farmers will be harmed by this, it is simply that with more demand, the national limit causes the farmer not to get it, not the one that is for him, how to say it... if the farmers had tax numbers, it could be said that this is the limit per tax number. Thank you. I hope I've explained that.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u129	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u130	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Law on the proceedings concerning public aid, print Nos 3302 and 3335. I inform you that the Modern Posel Club supports the government bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u131	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Senate draft law amending the Police Act and some other laws (Prints 2185 and 3374). I would very much like to ask Mr Jerzy Polak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u132	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present in a synthetic manner a report on the draft amendment to the Police Act and some other laws, originally included in print no. 2185. I would like to remind you that this is a senate initiative, also so important that it refers to a petition that was brought to the Senate. I am talking about the individual petition No. P9/04/17, submitted to the Senate on 1 February 2017. The petitioner asked for amendments to the laws, in particular to the Police Act, to the extent that it would allow legal rehabilitation and return to the acquitted policeman's service in criminal proceedings, who was released from the service on the basis of the disciplinary provisions of that law, i.e. due to the sentence of expulsion from the service, which at the same time served as a criminal offence and a disciplinary offence. The purpose of this regulation is to introduce a solution, which is primarily... If the decision to release a police officer from the service was based on a judgment of disciplinary penalty in the form of expulsion from the service, and the basis for the sentence was a reasonable suspicion that a police officer or another officer had committed a criminal offence, there is no legal basis for bringing the officer back to the service when the criminal proceedings were terminated by a final acquittal or by a decision to terminate proceedings for failure to commit a criminal offence or a tax offence or for the absence of statutory evidence of a criminal offence. This lack of legal basis also concerned regulations relating to other services: Border Guard, State Fire Service, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Central Anti-corruption Office, Military Intelligence Service and Military Counterintelligence Service. The recommended solution in the form of a draft law amending the Police Act and some other laws is precisely to give a precise basis for legal rehabilitation and return to the acquitted police officer, Border Guard and other services in criminal proceedings, who was released from the service as a result of a disciplinary penalty in the form of expulsion from the service for an act fulfilling both the marks of crime and disciplinary misconduct. I would like to stress that, at a time which was intended for the work of the subcommittee, and then yesterday, when the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs met, which considered this report positively, this Senate project was supplemented on the initiative of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs with a similar regulation concerning the Marshal's Guard. This law was not yet in place at the time of the Senate initiative. In the meantime, of course, the Law establishing the State Protection Service replacing the former Government Protection Office has changed. I would like to focus on the issues which have been covered by this regulation, for which, in relation to this initial submission, the Senate has been submitted, I think, very positive changes. It is also a very important initiative from a social point of view, supported by all parliamentary clubs. Firstly, as I mentioned, the regulation proposed by the Senate was also extended to officers of the State Fire Service, State Security Service and the Marshal's Guard. Secondly, these amended service pragmatisms harmonise the grounds for reopening disciplinary proceedings. In addition, they were extended to a decision to terminate proceedings on the grounds of the circumstances set out in Article. Article 17 (1) (1) or (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure and Article 17 (1) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Paragraph 1 (1) or (2) of the Code of Conduct for Offences. Thirdly, this regulation extends, following the provisions of the Law on the State Fire Service, the catalogue of loved ones who may, in the event of the death of the punished or blamed person, request the resumption of disciplinary proceedings. It is worth noting that this corresponds very strongly with the strengthening of the legal position of the officers who were in a particular legal situation, which I signalled at the beginning of my speech. Fourthly, as a consequence of the pragmatic changes introduced in the laws, transitional provisions and provisions on the entry into force of this law have been extended in such a way that, within a few months, the individual services covered by this regulation: the police, the Border Guard, the State Fire Department and others can prepare themselves in a very mature manner for the entry into force of these regulations. In conclusion, as rapporteur, I would like to thank the Senate once again very warmly for this initiative and also to express my appreciation to the Council of Ministers for the positive opinion of this Senate submission, which took place in November 2018. I would also like to thank all the ladies and gentlemen of the Sub-Committee on Emergency Affairs and the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for their support for this regulation, which is filling, otherwise very important, a legal gap, which has often given rise to a lack of legal basis for the return to service of those officers who have been dismissed or who, under a final judgment of the court, have been released from the charges which previously gave rise to their dismissal. Thank you again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u133	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Piotr Polak, Law and Justice will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u134	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I present my position on the draft law amending the Police Act and certain other laws, prints No 2185 and 3374. He proposed to the High Senate of the Republic of Poland to amend the laws in force so far, thus fulfilling the demands contained in the petition submitted to the Senate on 1 February 2017. The solutions contained in these prints aim to allow legal rehabilitation and return to the acquitted service in criminal proceedings of a police officer and Border Guard who has been released from service as a result of a disciplinary penalty for expulsion from the service for an act fulfilling at the same time the signs of a criminal offence and a disciplinary offence. The draft law also abolishes a time limit limiting the right to apply for the renewal of any disciplinary action in favour of ABW, CBA, Prison Service, Government Protection Office, State Protection Service and Marshal's Guard. In the case of the Police and Border Guard, this deadline will be 10 years, except for disciplinary proceedings terminated by removal from the service. In this case, the right to apply for reopening will also not be limited by the deadline. In order to regulate the status of the officers referred to above, the laws on the Police, on the State Fire Guard, on the Border Guard, on the ABW, on the CBA, on the Prison Service, on the Military Counterintelligence Service and the Military Intelligence Service, on the Marshal's Guard will be amended. In the event of the death of an officer, a family member entitled to a survivor's pension shall be entitled to apply for the reopening of disciplinary proceedings. This regulation will help to protect the reputation and reputation of wrongly convicted officers by touching faulty disciplinary decisions and the possibility of returning to the service. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u135	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u136	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present a position concerning the Parliamentary printing no. 2185, the Senate draft law amending the Law on Police and some other laws. The purpose of the amendment is to allow police officers and Border Guards to have a disciplinary penalty imposed on them in the form of expulsion from the service due to the commission of an act fulfilling both a criminal offence, a tax offence or a criminal offence as well as a disciplinary offence, legal rehabilitation and return to the service after an acquittal sentence has been imposed in criminal, criminal or tax proceedings or a decision to terminate proceedings. In addition, this law abolishes time limits limiting the right to resume disciplinary proceedings in favour of punished officers of the State Fire Department, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Central Anti-corruption Office, Military Intelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, Prison Service, State Security Service and Marshal's Guard. The text of the amendment is the result of the Senate's work as a result of an individual petition, which was subsequently extended by the Council of Ministers and supplemented by the work of the Administrative and Home Affairs Committee and an emergency subcommittee set up under it. In the current state of law, a police officer or Border Guard, despite the acquittal or remission of criminal proceedings, if it has lasted for more than 5 years - and these are common situations - is not possible to resume disciplinary proceedings where he has been ordered to be expelled from the service because of a provision allowing the procedure to be resumed only within 5 years of the date of the decision's authorisation. Thus, he has no chance of rehabilitation. The existing legal status therefore violates the right to protect the reputation and restore a good name to an officer. Hence, a project was created that the possibility of reopening the proceedings in favour of the defendant is not limited by any time limit. Similarly, the revision of other laws concerning other uniformed services provides for solutions. As a result, officers will have the opportunity to touch faulty disciplinary decisions and to completely exonerate themselves from wrong accusations and accusations. This project responds to such situations and creates the possibility for punished officers to return to service and full legal rehabilitation, and therefore deserves a positive assessment. During the work of the committee and the subcommittee, the provisions on all the formations under discussion were sought to be harmonised as soon as possible in order to maintain consistency of solutions and a similar way of shaping similar legal institutions. Editing and ordering amendments have also been added and obvious legislative errors have been corrected. To sum up, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - the Civic Coalition supports the law on amending the Police Act and certain other laws and requests its adoption. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u137	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Bartosz Józwiak, Kukiz Club15. There isn't. Please, Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u138	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! By exercising his constitutional powers, the Senate of the Republic of Poland adopted on 21 December 2017 a resolution on enabling legal rehabilitation and the return to the service of an acquitted police officer and Border Guard in criminal proceedings, who was released from service as a result of a disciplinary penalty for expulsion from the service for an act fulfilling at the same time the marks of the offence or offence and disciplinary misconduct. Today's matter in this room also refers to the abolition of a time limit limiting the right to apply for the renewal of any disciplinary action in favour of ABW, AW, CBA, SWW, SKW and the Prison Service. The length of the legislative process, which might initially be surprising, was due to the expectation of a government party to pass the Law on the State Protection Service and the Marshal's Guard. The latter two services are under the responsibility of the Minister for Home Affairs, and therefore it has become reasonable to regulate one-off, comprehensive legal rehabilitation and return to service for all officials, all types of services mentioned. The Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, as a responsible parliamentary club, has never stood up and is not opposed to solutions which are based on intentions that meet the welfare of man and citizen. However, in the case of this particular regulation, we have approached and dealt with the proposed solutions with approval and with reasonableness. In view of the ratio legis of the proposed provisions, we accept them from a legal point of view. On the other hand, we are fully aware that the PESEL of every man, including an official of these services, does not give back time, which gives rise to some kind of doubt, and this is when the officer will be discharged shortly before the retirement age. Given that prosecutorial investigations and judicial proceedings often take place up to 10 years or more, in the event of a final acquittal of the officer concerned at the time of such judgment, he will already be over 60 years old. And then what? This is the issue that some officers have pointed out to me in recent days - I do not hide that this situation has become a surprise to me. This is not the case for officials of these services when their expulsion or dismissal took place when they were young. We're not allowed to skip that. In contrast, there is a matter of rehabilitation of officers, but after their death - for their closest legal rehabilitation will be merely satisfaction and satisfaction. The comments of the Legislative Office detailing the provisions contained in this report should be agreed and approved. We are also serious about the issue raised by the social side and regarding the proper identification of the officer's firing procedure. Any social injustice, unjust accusations, unjustly cast in defilements, if this is proved by legal proceedings, and the accused gets the status of innocent, must be rectified and the person legally rehabilitated. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, None of the acts adopted in this House Normative is not and can not be absolutely perfect and can not have an unchangeable quality. Thus and the project that is being processed today is not and cannot be perfect, because life at the least expected moments, even moments, brings sudden and unexpected situations at the time of making this legal act, and therefore difficult to predict on the day of its adoption. Hence, members of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, leaning on the records of the report of the printing committee no. 3374, are willing to support them, believing that they will serve a noble purpose. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u139	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u140	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club in the case of the Senate draft law amending the Police Act and some other laws. High Izbo! The draft law presented by the Senate concerns the possibility of legal rehabilitation and the return to the acquitted service in criminal proceedings of an officer. The project concerns police officers, Border Guard, State Fire Department, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Central Anti-corruption Office, Military Counterintelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, Prison Service, State Security Service, Government Protection Office and Marshal's Guard. It is worth noting that the project is the implementation of an individual petition to the Senate. This means that, in fact, even a single person who brings such a petition to the High House or to the Senate, which works in the interests of the citizens, is able to induce Parliament to prepare appropriate legislation that corrects obvious errors. It is also the same for this amendment. In fact, the petition states that in the present form, the provision of the article. 135r paragraph. 5 makes it impossible to resume disciplinary proceedings after 5 years, which does not de facto take into account the realities of the functioning of the Polish justice system, especially that criminal proceedings often take longer than 5 years. In the case of this particular person, the criminal trial ended with a final acquittal only after 12 years, which obviously, taking into account the applicable rules, undermines the chance of rehabilitation and violates the right to protect the reputation and good name of the acquitted policeman. Of course, this also contradicts such an elementary sense of justice. Those problems raised in the petition, which were specific to a police officer, are also present in other services. Therefore, the solution proposed by the Senate was very comprehensive, not only for police officers but also for other servants. Already at the stage of the procession in Parliament, in the Sejm, legislation was introduced in the law concerning, for example, officers of the Marshal's Guard who were not considered in the first version of the project. Given the complexity of the solutions, the fact that the project is in the de facto interest of the officers, enabling them to prosecute justice in a much longer period than in the current five-year period, we believe that it is right and should be adopted by the High House. Therefore, on behalf of the Poselski Club Modernly, I declare my support for the solution presented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u141	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Lorek, the Law and Justice Club. There's no envoy. Please, Mr Marek Wójcik, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u142	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to thank the petitioners who asked the Senate to deal with this matter because we have for some time seen that there is such a problem, but unfortunately this problem could not be solved quickly. In addition, work on the Senate bill for this term also lasted almost 2 years, because the project was submitted to the Marshal's Lady in Sejm already in December 2017. However, this law is certainly a step in the right direction and should be adopted. I have repeatedly declared my support for this law at the committee meeting. On the other hand, Minister, I would also like to note one point. In fact, this law does not really address the problem of the material situation of the officers who will be reinstated. And, Minister, I would like to appeal for that. Before the Sejm, a discussion on a law that is likely to be needed in order to implement the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal [[♪ The bell ♪]] as regards the equivalent of unused leave. Therefore, I ask you to look at the material situation of the officers in order to create some mechanism that will allow these officers to be compensated for the period during which they were not officers. And I would also like to ask the Minister what happened to the exams when such a person will be admitted to the service after disciplinary proceedings. Will such a person have to pass full exams like a new officer? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u143	Thank you very much, sir. I wanted to cordially welcome a 40-member group of chiefs and members of the Senior Club from the Kościan commune in the war. Greater Polish. We cordially welcome you to the Seym. [[Applause]] Enjoy your stay. Now, please, Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u144	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have a question for the Minister. Namely, this bill is really expected and is going in the right direction. But tell me what the scale of the problem is, how many police officers estimate the situation that the draft law is talking about over the year. These are those who, in connection with their expulsion from the ministry, have been harmed because of their acquittal or have been dismissed from the case on which they were expelled from the service. What's the scale? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u145	Thank you very much, Member. And Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u146	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! It's a project long awaited by officers, their families. As we know, in police work, in prison, in the Border Guard, in the service, there are a number of problems, namely slanders, other cases and removals from service, and it turns out that these were untrue things, we have valid judgments and finally the expected moment of return to service, rehabilitation is coming. But I have a question that isn't about obvious things. This bill was prepared for the Border Guard, the Prison Service and, above all, for police officers. I'm talking about the Secret Service. Was it consulted with them? Has the project been consulted with an interview, with counterintelligence and our Special Services Commission? Thank you. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u147	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Mr Jarosław Zieliński.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u148	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to start by thanking you, because this thanks should be given to everyone who has initiated the work and worked on this bill. He initiated this, you can say, one citizen, but I use the plural: they initiated it, because such requests were made earlier e.g. There were more to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration in previous years. However, the Senate took the legislative initiative related to the request of one person. This was the case when the criminal proceedings ended after 12 years with a final acquittal and there was no provision to allow legal rehabilitation and return to the service of an officer. The starting point was the police, because the petitioner is whether or not he was a police officer. However, in the course of further work, the scope of the law, the scope of the amendment was extended to other services of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration, supervised by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration: special services - I will immediately reply to the Member that there has been consultations on this matter - and the Marshal's Guard, which, at the last stage, seems to have been included and rightly, because this regulation must be comprehensive. It can be said that this legislative process is an example of good cooperation between all, cooperation between political divisions, but also socialisation of the legislative initiative, because it was the citizen who brought it in. I repeat that there were also other demands, earlier, from other people. I would like to stress very strongly - the point is that this matter is well understood by the public, because the committee obviously knows it very well, because it was working on - that it is about creating a legal basis for legal rehabilitation and return to service, if that is still possible - Mr Sosnowski spoke about these limitations and very rightly - in a situation where disciplinary and criminal proceedings have been initiated against an officer for an act which is also a sign of criminal offences and disciplinary misconduct. It's all about situations like this. This is not about situations where disciplinary action does not coincide with criminal proceedings. Well, then I have to be honest with you, so there's no too much expectations about this recipe. Indeed, in the practice of the Polish judiciary and the justice system it happened that after many years the acquittal took place, and the officer was already expelled from the service. So far there have been no legal grounds for rehabilitation, to resume proceedings in order to end them in accordance with a judicial judgment, or to return to service. The Member asked what number of people this concerns. This issue has been clarified in the draft legislative impact assessment. These aren't big numbers, but even if it were only for one officer, it's worth noticing. It's about 9 years, about 10 years that will be covered by the rule. Since 2017, I suppose it's been counted, right? Since 2017, because then these data were collected, established. So when it comes to 10 years back, the police found 49 of these cases, in Prison Service 2, in Border Guard - 7, in Central Anti-corruption Office - 1 case. Of course, that doesn't mean that these data are constant, because they're gonna change marginally. There could be fewer cases like this, there could be more. New cases will decide that and the passing time, those 10 years behind. That's one thing. As far as issues relating to equivalence, claims, compensation for this time of non-service are concerned, these are the rules that govern them. Whether they regulate this sufficiently, Mr President, it is a matter of common consideration. Of course, we'll think about it. Think about it, too, clubs. There is a mechanism for redressing these claims. We have the Police Act here, in particular the Art. 42 of the Police Act, as well as the Civil Code, in particular Article. 24 and Article 24 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Of course, it may be worth considering a more efficient mechanism for paying or regulating this compensation than the general rules provide, especially the Civil Code, because it is taking time. But it takes some thought. We'll think about that, too. With this law, Mr, which you mentioned, and thus the equivalent of unused leave? I don't know, maybe this is a really good opportunity. But maybe with another amendment, to a different extent. It'll be worth analyzing. I welcome this as a task of legal analysis and consider whether these rules are sufficient or whether they need to be revised. Surely the provisions that we introduce in this law are the right provision for the interests of the police and other officers concerned in the future. But it is also right from the point of view of social justice, it seems quite obvious to me. Therefore, I would like to thank you once again for the fact that there was no dispute about the idea of regulating this problem. The Senate, then the committee, its enlargement, the joint work of the members of the committee, representatives of the government, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration - is the result. These laws deserve support, that's what I'm saying on behalf of the government. They will certainly raise standards for the protection of the rights of officers, and this is a very important aspect. The State must take care of its officers and this is one of those aspects that needs to be taken care of better than before. I think I will stop there, and that should be enough when it comes to the position, the approach of the government, the ministry, when it comes to information on the scale of the issue. As far as the future is concerned, I have already said that we will try to think about it again. On the other hand, I think it will be particularly important to think about those officers who will no longer be able to return to the service, because if there is a possibility of returning to the service, age still allows, time has not passed much, then only this mode of return must be well regulated. He's here in the Police Act, but we'll think about whether it's done in a perfect way. Mr. Speaker! Excellent things, of course, there are no perfect recipes either. I thought that you, by giving such a general reflection a little philosophical-legal, would say what is imperfect in this bill, but for now you haven't said it. So it seems that you've said a little bit in advance that maybe these problems will come out in the future. So far, they have not been identified by you, too, so I think it's possible to agree with conviction, and then, of course, analyse it further. Those who will no longer be able to return to the service are in a particularly difficult situation, because rehabilitation itself, when it comes to a good name, is not enough, is it? It's important, but that's not all. The amendment also sets out a circle of people who may ask, also outside the office, to resume disciplinary action in the event of the death of an officer, because this period may be long enough, and unfortunately, in the short term, such situations occur, that someone simply dies, unfortunately human life is not permanent. Then it will be appropriate for a fairly broad circle of actors to apply to resume the proceedings: a spouse, a relative in a straight line, a sibling, an accompanier or an accomplice. This is also important, but it is important in this moral aspect, while in material terms it is really worth the analysis. It seems to me that the bill is worth it - in the belief that we are going in the right direction, we are raising standards - together, without a vote of opposition, to say what I am asking. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u149	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. Ladies and gentlemen! We are listening to a group of inhabitants of the municipality of Krynki in Podlaskie Voivodeship. Welcome back, folks. [[Applause]] We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Committee on the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals and some other laws (prints no. 3270 and 3284). I ask Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u150	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, a report on the draft law amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish National and some other laws, prints no. 3270 and 3284. The purpose of the presentation, as the Members indicate, is to make the necessary legislative changes resulting from changes in the legal system and the case-law of the general courts and administrative courts in the area of operation of the Institute of National Remembrance. In other words, the aim of applicants is primarily to introduce adaptation and ordering changes. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 8 March 2019, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for first reading. The Commission carried out its first reading and examined the draft law at its meeting on 13 March 2019. The applicants were represented by Mr Babinetz. The meeting was attended by the President of IPN Prof. Jarosław Szarek. There was a discussion about the project. All regulations have been systematically discussed. Legislative and editorial amendments were introduced during the meeting. No substantive amendments were tabled, although we were signalled the opportunity to submit them at the second reading. The Commission has finally adopted the proposal by a majority of 9 votes in favour, in opposition to two Members and in the absence of abstentions. After considering the draft law, the Committee on Justice and Human Rights requests the High Sejm to adopt the draft law as proposed in the committee's report in print No 3284. I would like to thank you, by the way, for the constructive cooperation between ladies and gentlemen, as well as all the participants in the committee. In the event of specific questions, I shall remain at the disposal of the High House. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u151	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Piotr Babinetz, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u152	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish National and some other laws. The proposal deals with the clarification of the current rules, including: the record on the content of the archives, the provision governing the making available of copies of documents relating to the applicant and produced by or with the applicant, as well as the clarification of the record concerning the personal documents of officials and staff of the State security authorities. What is important is that if this draft amendment of the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals and some other laws were adopted, documents which have been lent from state archives to the Institute of National Remembrance will now become a full part of the Institute's resource. These are documents produced by state security authorities, in fact the Soviet state, from the 40s and 50s, and the then justice system, namely the communist period of the 40s and 50s. In the 20th century, such as prison authorities, military courts and prosecutors, as well as personal files of prisoners - victims of communist repression. At the same time, the Law and Justice Club has two amendments. The first is, you can say, a transitional provision. After the article. 3 add Article. 3a as follows: Applications for a certificate submitted pursuant to Article. 29a Act as amended by Art. 1 and not considered before the date of entry into force of this Act shall be left unrecognized. And the second amendment. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2 is replaced by the following: Documents referred to in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 point 7 of the Act as amended by Art. 1, which will be transferred to the Archives of the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals after the date of entry into force of this Act, will be transferred to the state of the archive stock of the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the pursuit of Crimes against the Polish Nationals. Key are the words not yet communicated in this draft, in this amendment, because not all the documents that should have been given to the Institute of National Remembrance have been used so far, hence the clarification of this provision and the use of this wording So that I pass on these two amendments tabled by the Parliamentary Law and Justice Club to the Marshal. Of course, the Law and Justice Club supports the parliamentary bill amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the Prosecution of Crime against the Polish Nationals and some other laws regarding this report by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights in this wording plus taking into account the two amendments that our club is proposing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u153	Thank you, sir. And I invite Mr Michael Szczerba, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u154	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! First of all, we're back on the National Remembrance Institute. And interestingly, ladies and gentlemen, this project is a parliamentary project, a highly careless project, a project to which amendments have just been tabled, but this is probably not the end. I would like projects concerning state institutions such as IPN, which also concern sensitive data of Polish citizens, to be presented, presented by the Council of Ministers and not by Members of Law and Justice. IPN is a special institution, an institution which has a budget nearly five times higher than the Polish Academy of Sciences. It is an absolutely controversial institution, an institution that changes city residents' addresses, sometimes against their will, as well as against the will of local authorities. It's an institution that supports, I'd say, bold urban projects. Quote from President Shark's statement: Destroy the Palace of Culture and recreate the centre of the capital according to what it looked like in 1939. It also introduces new, original meaning of words into Polish. The hero according to the IPN is Romuald Rajs Bury, whom the IPN itself called years ago, and I quote: wearing the signs of genocide. Ladies and gentlemen! IPN's budget in 2015 is 249 million in 2018. What institution has doubled its budget over the last three years? Ladies and gentlemen! It's not all problems, it's the only problems, it's the images. Remember the situation in Szczecin, the great banner in English you wrote: Poland is the first to fight. Poland first to figth. What happened on that biggest banner in Szczecin? Wrong. Language error. And then what happened? The copyrights continued to emerge. Of course, you didn't have the right to a graphical theme, you didn't get the permission of the author's heirs. Ladies and gentlemen! Today we're talking about a very serious case because we're talking about a restricted collection. And interestingly, today, the PiS proposes a parliamentary project on the functioning of IPN in a situation where the legislation you are proposing is already in force. In the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office, it is written: proposed amendment of the article. 28a on the development, publication and making available of the archive inventory of IPN on websites has already actually been implemented despite the lack of provisions of the Act. Indeed, on the IPN website you write: We are making stock available to you, which contains 1690 thousand. records describing administrative, operational and personal material. This is the result of the hard work of archival personnel for several years, but also their efforts to ensure that richer information meets the growing expectations of users. But there are already first errors, among others. the case concerning the IPN branch in Łódź. The director of this branch is already retreating because he considered an M.O. Officer to be an S.B. Officer. These errors have already been corrected, but the embarrassment, ladies and gentlemen, has remained because you are a state institution, an institution that takes PLN 380 million a year, and you should not make such mistakes. The second thing is that it's a disgraceful thing to play history. We remember the hearing of President Shark. What did President Sharek say in the Committee on Justice and Human Rights at the time when he had not yet been called to perform this function? Asked by me about the Silk issue he wrote, I'm sorry, he said: The executor of this crime was the Germans. Ladies and gentlemen! The IPN was investigating this. The order of 30 June 2003, as I understand it, is valid, but this provision and the contents contained there sounded a little different: The perpetrators of the crime, as the perpetrators of the strict sense, were Polish residents of Silk and surroundings - men, at least in the number of about 40. But President Sharek doesn't let go, he pours oil into the fire. He recently announced that the IPN is ready to exhume in Silk. It's nothing else, High Izbo, like pouring oil into the fire. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We are not at the moment able to say how we will vote on the proposed proposal, because we have the impression that it will be completely changed as a result of the amendments that PiS is submitting to it. These amendments are, of course, the result of the highly careless preparation of this project. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u155	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u156	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I would like to present my position on the report of the committee on the parliamentary bill amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the pursuit of Crime against the Polish National and some other laws, prints no. 3270 and 3284. The proposed amendment is intended by the authors to clarify the current rules, among others. the provision concerning the value of the archive inventory, the provision governing the making available of copies of documents relating to the applicant and produced by or with the applicant, and the provision concerning the personal documents of officials and servants of the State security authorities. As far as the inventory is concerned, the draft introduces a provision stating that the Institute of National Remembrance publishes on the website, as is currently the case, an archive inventory which describes the archival units allowing the identification of the issues or persons concerned. It is added that a description of the archive unit, e.g. a specific file, must include, inter alia, its title - identifying the type of archival material, indicating personal data - and the place of storage of the file, and at the same time can be supplemented e.g. It's a code name. The draft also amends the provision relating to access to documents that apply to the IPN Archive. That's for example. the persons who served in the security bodies of the communist state were their secret informants or helped them to obtain information. The project clarifies: "The documents produced with the participation of the applicant in the operational acquisition of information by the State security authorities shall also include registration aids, such as registration logs, archive inventories, registration cards and the Integrated System of Operational Records of State Security Authorities, if they confirm the fact that it is registered as a secret informant or assistant to the State security authorities.' The project also arranges matters of illustration. The Act adds that the IPN Mirror Office - as is currently the case - prepares and publishes catalogues. Office employees run four such catalogues. One concerns the staff, officers and soldiers of the national security authorities, indicating the degree of service of the posts occupied and the security authorities of the State in which they were serving or working. The draft adds a provision stating that the Office keeps records of illustrative statements and analyses of illustrative statements and prepares illustrative proceedings. High Izbo! I would like to express my doubts as to whether such a complex project should be presented as a parliamentary project. It's already come out of the mouth of the previous speaker today. The government's position on the project is lacking. Similarly, we have no opinion of any institution, no constitutional body, starting with the ombudsman, by the Attorney General, the organizations of attorneys or counsellors. I understand that the Institute of National Remembrance does not have a legislative initiative, but in this situation it seems more appropriate to report similar projects as government, after work at the Legislative Office, after having given appropriate opinions by the institutions to do so. The project itself, which regulates the technical aspects of the operation of IPN, raises no major doubts. Greater transparency and clarity of the rules, as well as greater availability of archive documents, greater access through catalogues will benefit and benefit the IPN, and for all those who use the archives of this institution. With the final position of the club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats on this project, we will refrain until the final work on this project, because it is actually a little concerned about the number of amendments to it and the pace of their bringing. Thus, the concern about what this project will eventually take shape: Will only the ordering ones remain? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The aspects, will there be any new ones? So with the final position, we will hold off until the end of the work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u157	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Mirosław Suchon from Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u158	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club in the case of the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish National and some other laws. High Izbo! This draft law deals with the clarification of the current rules, inter alia. the provision concerning the content of the archives, the provision governing the making available of copies of documents relating to the applicant and produced by or with the applicant, and the provision concerning the personal documents of officials and servants of the State security authorities. Of course, this project could only be considered a cause for technical discussion, but unfortunately, given everything that is going on in the area of the Institute of National Remembrance, we cannot go on, I would say, with such a dry foot through this legislative process. After all, we are talking about an institution that was to seek historical truth, not to create its truth for the benefit of one political party. This institution was supposed to give people justice and not be an instrument of stinging at people, at citizens who, very often because of their public activities, are an example of how a real patriot should act. And I must admit that there is not much good to say about IPN promoting such patriotic patterns, true patriotic attitudes, and in this activity you can only look for attempts to recreate and write a completely new de facto history. This raises opposition and such situations in such an important area should not absolutely arise. Unfortunately, this fits into the process, within the scope of the process on this project. It would seem that the project for such an important institution, such an important area, should be characterised by a certain degree of accuracy, ambition for the legislative sphere. Unfortunately, we have received, you can say, a very bad, very unprofessionally prepared project, which obviously does not prove the whole process of drafting this law. This also applies to the procedure. I would like to remind you that already during the committee meeting there were doubts about the referral of this project to the committee, the speed of proceding and the lack of sufficient time for an in-depth analysis of the provisions presented, especially since as well as my honourable speakers mentioned, there are doubts about the tasks being carried out. The key institutions for the functioning of the state, for the area concerned by the Institute of National Remembrance, and for the social side, were lacking. On behalf of the Modern Club, I must say that we think that this is a very large lack. In general, it is only on the basis of what is here in the Sejm that we consider, without consulting the government's external opinions, the opinions of the institutions that are appropriate in the area in question, that we consider to be a very restrictive legislative process and resulting, after this process has been completed, in the implementation of a law that does not fully meet the needs. Not much, it often complicates the lives of citizens. And from this point of view, this lack of opinion seems very, but it is very important for this project. As further amendments were tabled during the second reading, which are likely to turn this project upside down in colloquially, the final opinion cannot be presented here. And that is also a problem that I would like to draw attention to. Cannot at the last stage of legislation - there is a committee meeting, there can be a subcommittee, there can indeed be a discussion of the proposed solutions - there are amendments, because this really does not allow for an examination and consideration of all aspects that should be taken into account. We will therefore present our opinion after the committee has examined the subsequent amendments tabled to the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u159	Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen! Our debate is listened to by students from the High School Complex No.1 from Kêpno. Welcome. [[Applause]] I invite Małgorzata Zwierzan, Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u160	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position towards the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals and some other laws following the work of this project within the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. As the applicants themselves point out, the proposed changes are due to the long-standing activity of the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish National. They aim to clarify solutions that are already in place so that their interpretation is in line with legislative principles. I agree that the proposed clarification of the provisions setting out the content of the archive inventory will avoid any doubts as to the scope of the published information and that changes to the rules on the making available of copies of the applicant's documents and produced by or with the applicant's participation will promote the correct classification of those documents. In addition to the above, applicants also propose to repeal the Article. 29a of the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance, which required the President of this institution to issue certificates concerning the persons who are in the catalogue of officials, collaborators and candidates for collaborators. As the practice has shown, certificates issued only on the basis of the resources of this single catalogue, and not the entire inventory of IPN, were not reasonably used as confirmatory e.g. before the courts, the lack of cooperation of the person with the services of the Polish People's Republic. I am convinced that the proposed amendments are needed to clarify, introduce more transparency and clarity of the rules, serve the work of the Institute of National Remembrance and will benefit all those who use the archives of this institution. Poland has exceptional reasons for caring for its national memory. It is undeniable that it is difficult to identify other countries and other nations whose historical awareness, national memory to a similar extent and equally consistently condemned to destruction. Any action aimed at caring for Polish history and Polish memory will have the support of the Free and Solidarnia wheels, also discussed today's draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u161	Thank you. And I invite Mr Robert Majka, not associated.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u162	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! And I have to say, I'm talking to an empty room again. Ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, the draft law relating to the adoption of amendments concerning the operation of the Institute of National Remembrance is very important. I will remind you here a few months ago of my speech on the discovery of Donald Tusk's past as well as Grzegorz Schetin's. On the Polish political scene since 1983 and after 31 August 1988 there are undisclosed agents of the Military Interior Service as well as the Security Service. They have an impact on the media, they have an impact on political, economic life as well as influence in the economic life of banks. An example is matters relating to the judiciary. It is the Supreme Court, also the Constitutional Court. We know a lot of information about the fact that facts and documents about certain people are being disclosed at times, indicating that they were secret co-workers of the WSW and the SB. At the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I spoke about the most important thing in my opinion, namely that in order to purify Polish social, political and economic life, every public person should present not a certificate, please, because the certificate does not produce legal effects, but an administrative decision taken as a result of the query. Every public person should, and this is not the case, submit a request for a query in the resources of the Institute of National Remembrance, whether or not she was a secret collaborator of the Military Interior Service or the Security Service. And what happened at the committee meeting on 13 March 2019? There's been a deaf silence. I was given to understand that my questions are, so to speak, too hard in substance. What does that show? This shows that until we reveal the influence of WSW and SB agents on the Polish political scene, nothing will change in Poland. Let's not be deluded. This isn't, ladies and gentlemen, it's my fanaberia. Recent media reports revealing that in some political circles there are agents of the WSW, show how profoundly this topic is not presented to the Polish people and the Polish state. Finally, I wanted to say the most important thing, namely that in Polish public space for many, many years there has been preventive censorship, which I have already talked about many times. The Article shall not be complied with. 54 constitutions, nor art. Ten press laws. You might ask yourself, who is employed in the Polish Press Agency, who is employed in public media, whether there are also those who are connected not only to WSW and SB services, but also with modern services, as well as people who could be recruited by foreign services such as BND or CIA. Let us remember that, ladies and gentlemen, until we clear the Polish political scene and until we reveal this past, nothing will really change in Poland. My hot appeal to the Poles. Please support my initiative. Thank you, Marshal. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u163	Thank you, sir. Let's get to the questions. Question time - 1.5 minutes. If anyone else wants to sign up, you're welcome. Please, Mr Michael Szczerba.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u164	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the representatives of the IPN. Mr. Kuja's famous case. Somehow you didn't mind that the President of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management is not subject to the law of illustration. I would also like to inform you that Minister Kowalczyk has informed me that he has been sending you information that worried him already last year about the fact that there are executives of the agencies, funds subject to the Minister of the Environment, who are not subject to the Mirror Act. What have you done in this case for the past year? What actions have you taken to ensure that those who perform the highest functions in the country, including in the funds, are subject to the Mirror Act? I would like to point out that the directors at the IPN make $10,000 each. I would also like to draw attention, as I have already said, to the expenditure on your institution, to the fact that expenditure on the Ombudsman's Office is 10 times less than that on your institution, 3 times the budget is the Supreme Court, and in Poland it is spent on theatres subordinate to the Minister of Culture half of your budget. Let's get to work. And I'm asking you to tell me what you've done about the president of the National Environmental Fund. [[♪ The bell ♪]] He was subject to an act of illustration and was not a sacred cow protected from the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u165	Thank you, sir. Mrs Zofia Czernow, I invite you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u166	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have two fundamental questions. The first question concerns what financial implications for the budget may arise from the additional competences which the Act gives to the Institute of National Remembrance, i.e. preparation and publication of catalogues, keeping records of illustrative statements, preparation of illustrative proceedings. As we have heard, the scope of some of them is already implemented by the IPN. It is not known on what basis. Therefore, I am not convinced, I do not agree with the justification for the draft law, which says that additional competences will not have any financial consequences. I'd like a fair answer. The second question concerns what was already mentioned, that the bill is a parliamentary project. Parliamentary projects are submitted when the matter is extremely urgent and there is a need for rapid regulation. This is a very short legislative path, without inter-ministerial arrangements, without asking many state institutions whether the bill does not have any additional negative effects. Meanwhile, this project is being examined as a parliamentary project, and concerns extremely sensitive areas of people's life, the lives of Poles. Why We Don't Respect [[♪ The bell ♪]] Poles and allow us to proceed in such a way over such an important law? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u167	Thank you, Member. Now please speak to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, Minister Magdalena Gawin.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u168	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The project presented is a project, I remind you, a parliamentary one. The Ministry of Culture and National Heritage does not comment on it. I would remind you that the amendment is of a very technical nature, very detailed. It refers to the archive inventory. I would just like to point out that most of the comments made regarding the activities of the Institute of National Remembrance did not concern this amendment at all. Mr Szczerba looked at me while I was sitting in these benches. I would therefore like to explain that I am not a representative of the Institute of National Remembrance. It is exactly the opposite, I am a member of the Polish Academy of Sciences, who worked at the Institute of National Remembrance. I ran my grant there and I can assure you that this is a well-functioning institution with excellent archives. I think it's a good thing that the archives were created. My knowledge concerns more or less archives in Central and Eastern Europe and the West, and I know that not every country in Central and Eastern Europe... East of our country, there's basically no such archive. [[He's in Moscow.]] Believe me, this is a very good archive collection that will be used for scientific research. He is praised not only by Poles, but also by historians from abroad. Once again, in my opinion, the amendment is strictly technical. She's referring to inventory, so I don't see here, I'd say, space to make adjustments. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u169	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: Report of the Communication Commission with Poles abroad on the governmental bill amending the Polish Charter Act and the consular law (prints no. 3362 and 3375). I ask Mrs Anna Schmidt-Rodziewicz to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u170	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the report of the Communication Commission with Poles abroad on the governmental bill amending the Polish Charter Act and the consular law, prints no. 3362 and 3375. High Izbo! I inform you that the Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm sent on 3 April 2019 the above draft law to the Commission for Communication with Poles abroad for first reading. I will briefly point out that the Act concerns the extension of the scope of the subjective impact of the Polish Charter Act to the whole world. People of Polish origin who do not have Polish citizenship, from areas not yet covered by this law will be able to benefit from the rights granted by the Polish Charter. The Commission, after first reading and considering this draft law on 10 April this year. introduced editorial and legislative amendments. The Commission has decided to recommend the adoption of the attached draft law to the Sejm. It is worth noting that all the groups represented in the committee unanimously expressed their support for the project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u171	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I invite Mrs Anna Schmidt-Rodziewicz, Law and Justice again.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u172	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the club Law and Justice towards the government draft law amending the Polish Charter Act and the consular law from prints no. 3362 and 3375. It is the responsibility of Poland to support compatriots residing outside the country and to ensure that Polish national identity is maintained among them. Once again, we prove that our concern for our fellow countrymen around the world has a specific dimension. We are effectively working for our countrymen, we are adopting legal solutions to address the problems that Polish environments have been facing for many years. The proposed amendment of the Polish Charter Act builds the unity and strength of Poles and Poles around the world. The Polish Charter gives its holders specific privileges, thanks to which we will be able for the first time to benefit people of Polish origin, but without Polish citizenship, who live on all continents. In many countries the colonization of our compatriots Polonia was deprived of real contact with Poland for many years and was forced to renounce the cultural heritage of ancestors for accelerated assimilation. Polish schools, newspapers were closed, Polish organizations were restricted, Polish language was banned, Polish documents were received, Polish documents were forced to resign from Polish citizenship. The proposed change in the direction of extending the scope of the law to the whole world is a breakthrough, an important impulse, which will bring back interest in Polishness, learning Polish language and cultivating Polish traditions. We meet the expectations of the descendants of Polish emigrants, who often were not forced to emigrate from Poland or even territories under partitions. The proposed changes will foster the discovery and re-cultivation by Polonia of its roots. There is no doubt that the Polish Charter Act actively helps to nurture Polish language among Poles living abroad and helps them cultivate national traditions. Indeed, it contributes to the return of many people of Polish origin to the country of their ancestors and to settling in our homeland thanks to the rapid path of obtaining permanent residence permits. The Government of Law and Justice feels extremely responsible for Polonia and Poles living abroad and insists on their fellow countrymen around the world, which is why the Club of Law and Justice will support the proposed bill. Dear Marshal, I would also like to make four amendments to the proposal in writing on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u173	Thank you. And I invite Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, the Civic Platform - the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u174	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition club on amending the Polish Charter Act and the consular law law, print No. 3362. I am pleased to refer to the amendment of this Act on the Polish Charter and to present a positive opinion about it, because it helps to preserve relations with Poland and supports the cultivation of Polish and Polish culture. This bill is very expected. The greatest advantage of this law is the fact that people from all countries of the world will be able to apply for the Polish Charter. I will mention Latin America here, because it was from there that I heard voices about the need for such support. The document, which is the Polish Charter, confirms belonging to the Polish people. Although it does not mean giving a foreigner Polish citizenship nor granting a temporary or permanent residence right, nor allowing for crossing borders without a visa, but means: its holders can work legally without having to have a permit, they have the possibility of obtaining additional privileges in the form of using lower rail tolls or visiting museums. So far, the Polish Charter has been granted to people from countries of the former Soviet Union, as well as to stateless persons. I believe that this is an important instrument that allows us to open ourselves to our fellow countrymen around the world, and above all to preserve and strengthen our relations with our country. During the debate in the committee, the issue of increasing the number of employees at consulates and increasing the budgetary resources was discussed. I would like this to be followed by the government's assurance that it will adapt to current needs. This was announced yesterday: that the situation will be analysed on an ongoing basis and, if necessary, such a need, it will certainly be the Ministry, the government side will address this. I wish it were binding. I also hope that it will be at the request of the consul that every applicant for the Polish Charter is checked. And now the question is: Will this bill ensure that the inspection will be carried out in a fluid manner by the servants? It raises doubts as to whether the service is ready to serve all applicants in such a way that it does not cause any congestion, in particular temporary congestion. I would also like to draw attention to the need for reliable verification of Polish organisations, which will deal with the acceptance of applications for the Polish Charter. Generally, as the Civic Platform - the Civic Coalition, we are positive about the project presented and we will be in favour of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u175	Thank you very much, Member. And I invite Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz,15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u176	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Kukiz club15 on the government draft amendment of the Polish Charter Act and the consular law. For years Polonia and people associated with Polishness were neglected by Matierz, mainly for political reasons. People's Poland could not forget that communism was not accepted by it. The Third Polish Republic is trying to make up for these negligence. It does it quite effectively, adapting e.g. rules of the Polish Charter for political changes taking place in the world as well as the expectations of people of Polish origin living outside Poland. Polonia never renounced her Polishness and never renounced her relationship with Poland. Also today it is Polonia, sometimes more than the Polish government itself, who cares about the interests of Poland. An example is the resistance and demonstrations of the American Polonia against the Just U.S. Congress Act, commonly called Act 447. It is the American Polonia, knowing the legal relations in the United States, the judicial practice in this country, in the absence of action by the Polish government, which did not seek that Law 447 should not be adopted, took and took numerous protest actions. And there's really something to be afraid of. The assurances of Polish authorities, even Minister Gowin, are not worth much. After all, even before the Just Act was passed, Gideon Taylor, head of the World Organization for Jewish Property Restitution, stated that it was accepted: it is a strong proof of the unshakable support of America for those who survived the Holocaust, in their search for justice, including economic justice. The Just Act creates a new legal reality in the US. Under the law, the US must observe the implementation of the Terresian arrangements and are obliged to monitor and support restitution proceedings in Eastern Europe. In the past, the United States Supreme Court rejected such a claim on 23 March 2006. - but on 1 July 2009, under the governments of PO and PSL, a novel amending the Code of Civil Procedure entered into force in Poland so that judgments handed down by the courts of third countries became legal in force in Poland. This means that the obstacle to the sovereignty of the legal area of the Republic of Poland has disappeared, and the sentence of the American court may concern Jewish claims against our country. Moreover, although the Anglo-Saxon law system is called a precedent, which means that once a case is settled it cannot be judged differently in the future, there is a possibility of so-called. break the precedent. A broken precedent ceases to play the role of applicable law and goes back to history as a mistake. Usually overruled, which is a break, is caused by a change of circumstances primarily legal. With regard to the US Supreme Court judgment of 23 March 2006, breaking the precedent is only a matter of time. So if someone is hoping that a fair and fair trial in the U.S. court will be possible, he can wake up with his hand in a potty. The Polish legal system must be sealed so that the US court ruling remains a court ruling in the United States. Hence Art. 1145 The Civil Procedure Code must be amended. In fact, we are only being defended by a harsh public policy clause, which requires that every time we reach an agreement on its scope on a specific matter. In presenting the above aspects, Kukiz15 hopes that the resolution proposed by him today on the position of the Polish authorities in relation to the Just Act will be procedated. And Marshal Kuchciński will not wait for the position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in this area forever. As Kukiz,15 we expect the Polish government to firmly inform the governments of the United States and Israel that Poland will never accept claims as so-called. Non-fallible property. At the same time, we also call on the Council of Ministers to present without delay to the Sejm a comprehensive reprivatisation bill providing partial compensation to the rightful owners deprived of ownership by the communist regime and preventing the so-called processes. wild reprivatisation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In relation to this law, Kukiz15 is in favour of its adoption. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u177	Thank you very much, sir. And I invite Mr Jan Łopata, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u178	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I have the honour to present our position on the report of the committee on the draft law amending the Act on the Polish Charter and the consular law, print No. 3362. High Seym! Yesterday, at the meeting of the Communication Commission with Poles abroad - as has already been said - the examination of this draft law and how it could be expected, as could be expected, was in principle unanimous in the discussion on the decision. The full agreement was at the committee's meeting on the adoption of this law and the extension of the law or the impact of this law on other countries of the world, because it is in fact this law, and in fact a novel, the amendment of the law of 2 April 2007, is merely about extending, increasing the impact of the rights and opportunities enshrined in it in all countries of the world, wherever fate - history - Poles directed. As we will remember back, until 2007, to discuss the first provisions of this law, and probably many in this Chamber were participants in that discussion, I am one of them, we will notice that already then the assumptions were about regulating the Polish Charter of all interested regardless of the address or country of residence. The concerns in particular of the Ministry of Finance, but also of the Ministry of Administration and Home Affairs, resulted in this law being applied to Poles living in the former Soviet Union. As I was saying, and before me, the debaters were talking about it, this entry is to extend it to the other countries. And what is this document of the Polish Charter? In addition to a certain honorable dimension, this document also has specific powers. And so, the holder of the Polish Charter has the right to exempt from the obligation to have a work permit, is the possibility to take up and pursue a business activity, it is also possible to undertake and pursue studies, doctoral studies and other forms of training. The card holder may also use forms of education as laid down in the Education Act, other than what I said earlier, and may also benefit from emergency healthcare services. Also, which is worth noting, he has the opportunity to benefit from a reduction of 37% when travelling by public means of collective transport. It also has free access to state museums. High Seym! To complete the process and hand over the Polish Charter to the applicant for this document leads to a fairly long, as so far indicated by this experience, and a tedious way to which the offices of the state, which are consulates, must be prepared and must be, perhaps, an ugly name, efficient, or efficient. I've been looking at the work of consulates, and I've had this opportunity in different countries of the world lately. I want to thank the consuls and the staff of the consulates publicly for this good card of the Polish Republic, according to my opinion. But it must be made clear that most of them are very heavily burdened with work. The stacks of documents in the consular rooms are standard. So the request and suggestion at the same time, as colleagues have already said here, is that we need an urgent analysis of the needs of consular posts and the personal reinforcement of these facilities, after all this is our card. High Seym! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I declare that we will vote in favour of the proposed solutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u179	Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, our debate is attended by students and educators from the 11th High School in Poznań, whom we warmly welcome. [[Applause]] I invite Mr Protasiewicz, Modern. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u180	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Mr Fellowships, Mr Fellow Members, On behalf of the Modern Club and the European Union of Democrats, which I am Vice-President, I would like to say that we are looking kindly at a project prepared by the Chancellery of the Prime Minister. It is a draft amendment to the Act on the Charter of Poles and Consular Law, which extends the circle of people who have the right to benefit from this extraordinary and honorable, although not only honorable, powers, not only citizens of the former Soviet republics, who, as far as the community is concerned, feel this communion with the Polish people, but also citizens of other countries all over the world who feel this connection and would like to apply for the Charter of Poles and the resulting powers. I just want to remind you that really some kind of offer, which involves the granting of the Polish Charter, consists in the fact that the holder of such a card, most often granted by the consul at the place of his residence abroad or by the office of the voivodeship, i.e. the designated voivode in the border area of Poland, becomes de facto at the time of crossing the Polish border such a quasi-citizen of the Republic of Poland. It has the right to exercise many rights which are granted to citizens of the Republic of Poland, except primarily the right to participate in the vote. It is reserved for citizens of the Republic of Poland. But indeed, the holders of the Polish Charter have the right to apply for legal work without the required permission of the Voivodship Office. They have the right to stay in Poland for any period without obtaining special permissions for this stay. They also have the right to take doctoral studies, to learn Polish, on the terms defined by the Minister of Science and Higher Education. Finally, they have the right to benefit from healthcare on the same terms as Polish citizens and to travel around the country, benefiting from discounts in terms of public transport ticket prices, mainly in rail transport. Such a set of privileges should in the first place be and was directed to the citizens of the former Soviet republics, because, first of all, Poles lived there not by their own choice, but as a result of the turmoil of war, political decisions of the former authorities or finally geopolitical situation, which occurred after the end of World War II, when some of our compatriots living in Poland until 1945 became suddenly residents of foreign territories. And as far as compatriots in these territories are concerned, the economic conditions of life in that part of the world actually made it necessary not only to give them rights but also certain material benefits when they reside in the Republic of Poland. In relation to American citizens or South American citizens, this kind of generosity may not be so necessary, but we understand that the government wants - and we agree - to treat all Polonus equally. That is why we are ready to support this amendment, albeit with the amendments that you have tabled to the committee president, depending on their content, because yesterday they were not presented in the committee. We also want to draw attention to the fact that the amendment should involve increasing the cast of Polish consulates abroad, not only in the former Soviet Union, but also primarily in South America. From this point of view, ending this discussion at second reading, I would like to appeal that the Consulate in Grodno should treat all applications for the Polish Charter equally, all of them as quickly as possible, because we have complaints that not all Poles applying for the Pole Charter are coming to us. [[♪ The bell ♪]] from the territory of Grodno are treated equally by the Polish Consul. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u181	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If anyone else wants to turn themselves in, you're welcome. Question time - 1.5 minutes. Mr Szczerba has the floor. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u182	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Polish Charter has proved to be an effective tool for many Poles, people of Polish origin living in the territory of present Belarus, Ukraine, who were certified by the Polish State to belong to the Polish people and who in this way received the Polish Charter, very often later a permanent residence card, and in the end were recognized as Polish citizens. I'll remind you of the data I have: approx. 120,000. Belarusian citizens, more than 100,000. Ukrainian citizens have received the Polish Charter in recent years since 2008. This trend should continue. Our compatriots live also in Grodno, and in Lviv, and in distant Kazakhstan. The only thing that bothers me, Minister, in this bill, is that the new project, this amendment introduces a mandatory review by the Internal Security Agency of applications for the issue of the Polish Charter. State institutions shall have 90 days in the case of issuing new cards and 30 days in the event of an extension of their validity. Does this requirement for mandatory checking of each application by the ABW, however, not extend the path we are talking about at the moment? I also know that a lot of people are young, 18-year-old, 19-year-old, [[♪ The bell ♪]] 20-year-olds who also come later on the basis of the Polish Charter to our country to study here, to take up education. Is this requirement of mandatory verification by the Home Office necessary, according to the Minister? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u183	Thank you, sir. And I invite Mrs Margaret Navel.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u184	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thanks to the amendment of the Act, the Polish Charter will be valid all over the world. All people of Polish origin and all Polish environments will be able to apply for it. It is currently granted only to persons living in 15 countries formed or reborn after the disintegration of the Soviet Union, who do not recognise double citizenship. The expansion of the Polish Charter to all countries in the world is a huge change. Does the Ministry foresee how many people will benefit from this right? As a result of the entry into force of this law, the consular services will be flooded with applications for the Polish Charter. I wanted to ask, are the consular offices ready for this? Did the project developers consider increasing the number of consular posts for this reason? Please respond to the ministry's position on this matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u185	Thank you, too. I invite Mr Mark Wójcik.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u186	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am pleased with these solutions, but what is surprising to me is the introduction to the mandatory law of checking applicants for the award of the Polish Charter by the ABW. For this check, the head of the ABW will have 90 days. Well, that's what I believe... This kind of mandatory check raises my doubts, because if we compare this solution with solutions in other laws, we will see that, for example. According to the Foreigners Act, which has no connection with Poland, a foreigner who applies for a temporary residence permit or permanent residence is checked by the ABW for 30 days, possibly in particularly justified circumstances this time may be extended for another 30 days. However, here the country preparing this solution is not only that people declaring their relationship with the Polish state and attachment to the Polish nationality will be forced to go through the mandatory verification procedure by the ABW - I wouldn't mind if it was an optional procedure - you still give ABW an exceptionally long period of time to carry out this check, because it is 90 days. I would therefore like to ask what reasons for adopting as long a period as you think, [[♪ The bell ♪]] justify this type of regulation in the Act. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u187	Thank you. Please, Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u188	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Young People at the Gallery! The Polish Charter is a good and beneficial solution for people of Polish origin who live around the world, in many countries of the world, but especially for those who live in the East. Thanks to it many Poles are trained at Polish universities. Unfortunately, it is too often extorted. Hence my question: Does the Polish Ministry of Foreign Affairs have data on the scale of this phenomenon? I still have a few seconds left. I'd like to wish you a lot of cheers, happiness, joy, and a little visitors tonight. Thank you. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u189	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u190	Mr. Marshal! I'm also joining your wishes. High Izbo! The extension of the scope of the Polish Charter is not enough action. There is a need for direct impact on countries where Poles have lived for years and should have similar powers because of the rights of national minorities from countries where they live in Poland. This applies to Poles living in Germany. Why isn't there reciprocity in election rights here? The Polish government should pressure the German government to grant the same political rights as the German minority in Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u191	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Piotr Pyzik.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u192	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is an extremely important project. Its adoption changes well-functioning solutions dedicated to Poles in the East, giving a whole new dimension to support Polishness worldwide. According to various estimates, we are beyond the borders of the country of 20 and 21 million. I am talking about a group of Poles who do not have any Polish document. Hence my question. I would like to ask how significant is the scale of interest of people with Polish roots, especially citizens of the States of the Americas, living contact with Poland, taking part in the construction of Poland as an attractive brand. I would like the High House to be aware of how important this project is, because especially in today's globalization, the dynamics of political change, which accompanies all this, does not allow us to remain passive towards what we call the survival of the Polish element in the world. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u193	Thank you very much. I invite the Secretary of State to the Chancellery of the Prime Minister of Mr Paweł Szrot.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u194	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It is rare - in my opinion, it is too rare - that it is debating a good project in this House, in accordance with such unanimity, with such an agreement on the opinion. This project, of course, is good. This project improves the situation of people of Polish origin living around the world, not only in countries of the former Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. Madam President presented the project's assumptions well, and she also presented the amendments. I can only say that, after preliminary analysis, the government is able to accept them all. As regards the questions that have been raised during the debate and the subsequent questioning, I am already answering them. Mrs Stępień from the PO-KO Parliamentary Club asked whether the services were ready to apply the provisions of this law. Mrs... I don't see a Member. [[I'm sitting right here.]] Oh, there's the Member. ...the records concerning a certain change in the system of evaluating these applications have been consulted with the services. The servants are ready for this. Some of these records are actually introduced at the request of the services. They are ready to apply these records, they are prepared for their application. I answer in advance Mr Szczerbie, who asked a question about the transition to a mandatory mechanism for making these checks from an optional mechanism and pointed out that a large proportion of these proposals would concern very young people, 20- to 30-year-olds. Mr, whom I do not see, I have come to agree with you here, but a moment has come, only that in such cases it secures the situation of these people to understand the agreement. If there is no agreement within a specified time limit, which will be shortened on the basis of amendments, then the matter should be deemed to have been closed in relation to an opinion by the services. I think that in most cases these young servants will proceed on this basis. The starting point for the bill we're proposing was the situation of Latin American people... [[Latin.]] ...from South America. In fact, to be perfectly honest, this is a specific category of countries in this region... [[Brazil, Argentina.]] ...such as Argentina, Brazil, Uruguay. This is a very specific Polonia. The ancestors of these people left the areas which now consist of Polish territories, in a situation where Poland did not exist. They never had a formal Polish citizenship. But they were of course ethnic Poles, to this day they often cultivate in a beautiful way the traditions of Polishness, culture, customs, while formal relations with the Polish Republic, such as they existed in the interwar years and later, cannot be demonstrated. That was the starting point. Then, of course, we began to consider other options and to discuss under government legislation, we concluded by establishing the universal application of this regulation. I'm just reminding you that South Africa can also be very important here. There is also significant Polonia, which may be interested in staying in the homeland of ancestors. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! As far as the questions are concerned, there weren't many. I hope I answered them all. Thank you once again for the widespread support in this House for this project. This regulation is good. This regulation serves people of Polish origin all over the world. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u195	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u196	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Polish Charter, confirming its membership of the Polish nation, can be granted to people of Polish origin who have the nationality of one of the 15 countries of the former Soviet Union. It gives numerous powers, such as access to Polish schools and universities, taking up work and doing business in Poland. After 10 years of its application you can also see how it helps in maintaining relations with Poland, cultivating Polish traditions and settling in our country. It is estimated that there are now around 20 million Poles in the world, of which 1 and 1.5 million in the former Soviet Union, but since the introduction of the Polish Charter in 2008, more than 200,000 have been issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. such documents, including 102 000. for Ukrainian citizens. How will extending the territorial validity of the Polish Charter affect the interest of compatriots living in other parts of the world in obtaining the document? How many cards will be issued as a result of this amendment? Importantly, only in 2018 the Mazowieckie voivode granted the holders of the Polish Charter 7 million PLN of cash benefits. How will these expenses develop after the adoption of this bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u197	In view of the fact that at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Commission for Communication with Poles abroad in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 min 53 hours 14 min 59]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the report of the Foreign Affairs Committee on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and Japan, on the other hand, drawn up in Tokyo on 17 July 2018 (prints Nos 3300 and 3341). I ask Mr Piotr Pyzik to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u198	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the report of the Foreign Affairs Committee in print No 3341 on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and Japan, on the other hand, in Tokyo on 17 July 2018, print No 3300. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm bureau, sent the above draft law to the Foreign Affairs Committee for first reading on 21 March 2019. The Committee on Foreign Affairs, following its first reading and the examination of this draft law at its meeting on 3 April 2019, brings forward: The High Sejm will adopt a draft law from print no. 3300 without amendments. Warsaw, 3 April 2019 It was written: the chairman of the committee, Mr Grzegorz Schetyna and the rapporteur, Mr Pyzik. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u199	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I invite Mr Józef Leśniak from Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u200	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Law and Justice Club on the draft law contained in prints 3300 and 3341. This draft law agrees that the President of the Republic of Poland ratifys the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and Japan, on the other hand, drawn up in Tokyo on 17 July 2018. The project concerns the ratification of an agreement which significantly extends the scope of cooperation in the areas of justice and home affairs, cooperation in combating terrorism and cybercrime, and creates opportunities in other areas such as environment and climate change, research, innovation and non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Contacts are carried out at many levels, both at the highest levels and within sectoral dialogues and expert contacts. The signing of the contract and its entry into force are part of the principles and objectives of Poland's policy towards Japan. Poland considers Japan an important international partner. This is decided not only by economic interests, but also by a common approach on a number of international law issues and values, such as the promotion of democracy, respect for human rights, the principles of the rule of law and respect for international law. The implementation of the agreement in the long term will promote the growth of contacts between Japanese societies and European Union countries, including Poland. Strengthening relations should foster new contacts at university level, as well as at local authorities, associations and civil society organisations. In addition to the positive effects of the bilateral agreement from 2015 on sightseeing and working, enabling young people to stay and study for a year, it is also important to mention in this context the fact that there is an increase in tourism exchange. Due to the mixed nature of the agreement, resulting from the competences of the European Union and its Member States as defined in the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the entry into force of the Agreement requires an appropriate procedure to agree to the binding also in all Member States of the European Union, including the Republic of Poland. The agreement will not result in direct financial burdens for the Republic of Poland. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice [[♪ The bell ♪]] will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u201	Thank you very much. Mr Norbert Obricki, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u202	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition club in relation to the contested law. Our parliamentary club welcomes the initiative of in-depth cooperation between the European Union and Japan. It is important that Japan also recognises and thus confirms the strategic nature of these relations, which will be much broader than only economic, because these relations include enhanced cooperation in the areas of justice and home affairs and cooperation in tackling global problems: cybercrime and terrorism. Let us hope that this will allow even more to develop relations between Poland and Japan. Today Japan is the second largest Asian investor in Poland. There are about 300 Japanese companies with around 40,000 companies. jobs, including as big as Bridgestone near Stargard, near Szczecin, which was once the biggest foreign investment in Poland. Poland's cooperation with Japan is important, it works at a good level and hopefully thanks to the negotiated agreement it will be able to be raised to an even higher level. The Civic Platform Club - the Civic Coalition supports the agreement, which fits into the principles and objectives of Poland's policy towards Japan, and will vote in favour. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u203	Thank you, sir. Mr Michał Kaminski, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u204	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is one example of this kind of decision in the Polish parliament, which does not cause controversy and which gains support, I believe, of all clubs, in this case also the Club of the Polish People's Party - the European Union of Democrats. This law is a very visible example of the benefits that Poland has in relation to membership in the European Union. We are ratifying the Treaty, which is adopted by the European Union in the diplomatic procedure with Japan. As a Polish parliament, as one of the parliaments of the Member States of the European Union, we are participating in the ratification process of this project. This bright example is proof of how the Community element connects within the European Union with the national element. So the sovereign national state, which cedates part of its powers, part of its sovereignty to the European institutions, still maintains an important element of control over this process that is taking place in Brussels, using a certain metaphor. This also involves something that is worth showing to Polish Eurosceptics, and what is a kind of paradox of sovereignty, i.e. on the one hand, by relinquishing part of our sovereignty - and by entering the European Union, I repeat, that is what we have done - we are gaining the opportunity to influence the decisions of the powerful political and economic body, which is the European Union. So this way on the one hand By taking something away, by giving something away, we gain influence on such an important process from a global point of view, which is shaping the relations of all: political, economic, cultural between the European Union and the empire of Japan. So let me repeat, the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats Members' Club will with all conviction vote in favour of authorising the President to ratify this international agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u205	Thank you. I don't see Mr. Snatchman. We have two questions. I invite Mr Piotr Pyzik, the Law and Justice Club. Time - one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u206	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The agreement presented is potentially of great importance for Poland. One of its elements is the introduction of a framework to facilitate phytosanitary and food safety arrangements. This is a huge opportunity that appeared in front of Polish producers of high quality food. Today we have a very adverse trade balance with Japan, closing with a loss of more than PLN 12 billion, and a chance to improve it. My question: Is the government already prepared for serious talks within the framework of the agreement so that our producers can be in a good position to negotiate on the Japanese market? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u207	Thank you. And I invite Mr Jarosław Goncier.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u208	Mr. Marshal! Minister! In the explanatory memorandum of the bill, it is pointed out that, in view of certain trade provisions, in particular those relating to customs or industrial cooperation, the entry into force of the Agreement will affect the situation of entities governed by national law engaged in economic activities, persons both natural and legal activities. I would therefore like to ask: Will the solution adopted later force changes in our national law? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u209	Thank you very much. And I invite the Undersecretary of State to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Mr Piotr Wawrzyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u210	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Maybe I'll answer the second question first. The issue that you have raised concerns issues covered by customs policy, which are the result of European Union law, and therefore, like each Member State, we will also be involved in the drafting of these rules. Regarding the first question, of course, these phytosanitary issues are also partly regulated by EU law, but partly by Polish law. One element of the process of this agreement was also the consultation of the Ministry of Agriculture, which did not make any comments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u211	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Parliamentary draft law amending the Act on the Tax on the Extraction of Certain Copies (Prints No. 3312 and 3377). I would like to ask Mrs Eve Szymanska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u212	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It has been a great honor for me to present a report to the Committee on Public Finance on the draft law amending the law on the extraction of certain fossils, print no. 3312. I am pleased to be able to present this report because it concerns KGHM - the largest company not only in the Legnica district from which I am, but also in the country. The Sejm at its 79th meeting on 3 April 2019, in accordance with Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed the above draft law to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. Today, the Public Finance Commission has examined this project. The discussion was turbulent, but it ended positively. Therefore, the Public Finance Commission asks the High Sejm to adopt a draft law from print no. 3312. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u213	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Wojciech Murdzek, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u214	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's a long-awaited project, especially in KGHM, but also through the local community. This is an extremely important project because KGHM, as we know, is a very great employer. The whole capital group is 33,000. employees. The impact of such a large combination on communities such as Lubin, Polkowice, Głogów, Legnica, but also on all others, is extremely important, which is why I think this project supports many people. This is a necessary project. KGHM has taken the wrong investment decisions in total between 2011 and 2015 and is still struggling with their consequences today. Foreign assets, which were to be a positive step, a development step, have become such an unwanted burden, constantly requiring additional capital. This requires capital and such a view of development. In 2012 and the following years, KGHM allocated over PLN 14 billion to purchases mainly related to the Sierra Gorda mine, in parallel paying a small tax, precisely the tax introduced in 2012. The levying of this tax is 9.5 billion, and in 2017 alone 1.8 billion. These are very real loads. On the other hand, the company makes a number of changes. These changes are already starting to bring first results. In 2018, the net profit of KGHM Polska Miedź amounted to over 2 billion despite the difficult situation, price fluctuations and stable revenues of the group - over 20 billion. This is an increase of about 1%. It's a good forecast. The operating profit exceeded the planned profit. Of course, in parallel, there is a struggle to improve the efficiency of these foreign assets, especially the mentioned Sierra Gorda mine. And today's, uh, current management procedures are extremely important. The management has proven that the operation of the Rudna mine can be profitable. There is a very good idea about the next shaft - planning works are underway - which will increase the company's potential. Within the framework of the steel development programme, another stage of technological unrest was completed in the Huta Miedzi Głogów. There is also an appropriate ongoing investment process related to the so-called. a junkyard, built in the Copper Hut Legnica. This list of positive actions is really extremely long. In order to support these actions, there was a parliamentary project supported by the Law and Justice Club, print No 3312, which actually makes us able, at least to a certain extent, to reduce the tax by 15%. , these positive actions of KGHM support with the hope that they will have an effect. The potential loss of this tax, we strongly believe, will be made up of tax revenue. I'm sure the local communities will be happy about this, but it'll also be reflected in the budget. Therefore, with great conviction I can express my opinion to the club, full support for the submitted parliamentary draft law from print no. 3312. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u215	Thank you. I invite Mrs Ewa Drozd, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u216	Mr. Marshal! I would like to present the position of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club in relation to this project. High Izbo! We would like to say that today we are discussing the best of all that have entered the High House, the draft laws on the tax on fossils - and I would like to remind you that there were four of them - based on a solid public debate, on reliable calculations and presented at the committee's meeting of the position of the Ministry of Finance and the Government, as I would remind you, the Vice President of PiS Adam Lipiński appealed in 2012. How was today? Today you don't even follow the principle of ordinary decency. We would also like to say today that you have included in the complex and adopted with a small amendment the project, first of all, your promises made to the voters in 2015, when you said, Prime Minister Szydło said that the PiS would eliminate the so-called. copper tax, presenting a bill in a blue folder. The same bill was presented in Lubin by Minister Mariusz Błaszczak. Unfortunately, you did not even take into account the concerns of your national geologist Mariusz Jędryska in 2012, who said that this tax would reduce the value of KGHM and discourage investment in the company, and warned against the possibility of other companies taking over KGHM. Today you put this on investments that have been made before and which, as you said yourself, are producing results. What have you done for 3.5 years of government? Did the situation in the company change suddenly after you won the election? No, on the contrary, it has worsened. The company achieved negative results in 2015 and 2016. You had a chance at that time, even when you forgot your promises to help her and find new solutions. You could have used our project we submitted in February 2016, about tax suspension. And what did you do? The project is still in the subcommittee today, and I think it's gonna stay there. But then you could have prepared yours. The summers of 2016, 2017, almost 2018 - silence. Suddenly, just after the local elections, after they were decided, you remembered the fossil tax and again it has become harmful to you, albeit not so much. You've valued it at 15%. - that's how much it cost to take power in the Lower Silesian Seymour. Unfortunately, you were not being directed by the company and the region, as you are trying to convince us today, and simply by the party business. How famous in Lower Silesia 15% Is it supposed to change the company's investment activities? We didn't learn that when we worked on this bill in committee. This is rather the announcement of another staff carousel, a change of presidents, directors, creating new posts for their own and hiring them. Unfortunately, it costs money, but I'm sure it's enough for that. If you're really guided by the good of the company you fought so hard for in opposition and its investment future, then there's a simple way to show it. It is enough to exempt the company from tax by deduction of all investments made by KGHM. This will significantly improve the company's development and stability on the international market and ensure the safety of its inhabitants. High Izbo! With this in mind, we give you one more chance to deliver on the promises made to the people of this region. Accept our tax suspension amendment for a year. We will sit down and work out good, consulted solutions, which will serve the good of the company, region and country. Mr. Marshal! I'm making a correction on your hands. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u217	Thank you, Member. I invite Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u218	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I present my position on the draft law amending the law on the extraction of certain minerals, prints no. 3312 and 3377. In fact, two projects were the subject of the work of the Committee on Public Finance. One concerned the repeal of the law on the tax on certain fossils and the amendment of other laws. The project was prepared by the Kukiz Group15. To be honest, the project seemed to be in line with the government's promises and positions, but a few years ago, not today. The second draft amending of the law on the taxation of certain minerals was prepared by a group of members of the Law and Justice. At today's second reading, we are to express our position only on the draft tabled by a group of Members of the Law and Justice, not really knowing the government's position on both projects so far. He doesn't even have a position as finance minister. At the meetings of the committee which were yesterday and today, the Ministry representative, the Director, attended meetings on behalf of the Minister of Finance, did not take the floor. I must say that the discussion in the Committee on Public Finance has been manipulated. It had nothing to do with the parliamentary debate and the law-making procedure. The work of the committee yesterday was allegedly interrupted because of the absence of the Minister of Finance at the meeting. He was to take part in the debate today. Neither yesterday nor today was there a competent representative of the Ministry of Finance who would present to the Members of the Committee on Public Finance a clear position on both projects. In fact, once again, the meeting yesterday was manipulated because the Members of the Law and Justice did not have a majority in the Chamber, so all the votes came out. Against the promises made earlier by the Law and Justice that the fossil tax will be abolished. The project that has been pushed through today will not actually produce the results of the justification, it will not improve... Tax reduction by 15% will not cure the financial situation in copper and steel mining, in KGHM nor will it enable new investments, so indicated, needed for mining and copper. It is true that investments that have been carried out outside our country in recent years with a strong involvement of KGHM - that was PLN 19 billion - did not produce the desired effect, but reduced tax by only 15% will also not result in investment engagement in our country. Therefore, my club will express its position during the vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u219	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska from Modern. There is no Member. In that case, I invite Mrs Agnieszka Chasing, Kukiz,15.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u220	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz club15 in relation to the proposed law amending the law on the extraction of certain minerals. It is a pity that we are only looking at one law, because in 2018, seeing this problem, the Kukiz club15, as Mrs Kukiz has already mentioned here, has submitted a draft law which completely repeals this tax, which has simply lost its existence due to the purpose set out in this law. The purpose of the introduction of this tax in 2012 was to capture the extraordinary profits of copper and silver miners. This condition has completely ceased, because the recipient of this tax, the payer of this tax, KGHM Polska Miedź, at the moment has no extraordinary profits, and even if it has profits, these profits unfortunately do not even suffice to cover debts that arose due to poor management, poor staff policy, purely political management. For many years we have been dealing with politically dependent companies of the Treasury, and the Treasury is in large part a shareholder in KGHM Polska Miedź. So bad investments dragged the hen to the bottom of the golden eggs. In fact, KGHM Polska Miedź has recently paid 10 billion tax, and in addition, almost 5 billion from various other taxes have been paid annually for the work of this Lubinian holding company. Therefore, the tax simply lost its justification. If there are no extraordinary profits, the bet actually limps or has liquidity problems and is an employer in a straight line for more than 20,000. employees, maintenance for their families and for the region - although it is estimated that there are almost 100,000 around this plant. well paid jobs - it is by imposing another tax, implementing such a policy that if something goes well, it is to add tax, and if we have some wealth, to sell it instead of multiplying, to allow it to develop and to work for our budget in the long term... After all, we know that prosperous workplaces, which create good jobs in the long term, not short-term jobs, but long-term jobs, will help to develop our country, help to create good jobs, raise wages to the European Union's average. That's why we think - and we didn't think that only when it was needed in connection with some coalitions, tenders or other negotiations, and from the very beginning, when we were in Lower Silesia, we saw a lot and listened about the needs of talking to employees, trade unions and the entire local community, with local government officials - that this tax was simply It's absolutely harmful. The payment of this tax, which is not only high in quota, is still unfair, because it is charged independently of the profit and loss balance... Whether or not the company has profits, the tax simply must always be paid and not at the expense of the bet. It's a double-destructive tax. That is why we believe that, of course, this draft law is some step forward, but far insufficient, because it is reduced by 15%. In fact, this tax will only translate into the payment of the debt service that this establishment has and unfortunately has to deal with. We would very much like our bill to be taken seriously. This project has been a year... And we're wondering why it's only now... After all, you know about the poor condition of this establishment for a long time, and in fact, since you knew what the government was planning for budget spending, you should have calculated from the very beginning that you are not killing yourself, you are not going to live with the taxes of a golden egg, but rather create its space so that it can generate revenue to the budget in a moment. So we had to start with that, just vetoing these bad investments. As far as the settlements are concerned, they're gone so far. It's been three years, there's supposed to be audits in different places, there's supposed to be settlements, because obviously somebody did the damage to the plant. Trade unions have not even been involved in the work of the Supervisory Board and they are an important body. I would like to say that, although we regret not considering this project, we would like to improve this situation, so on behalf of the club I would like to make an amendment which will increase the tax relief to 30%. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Maybe this will be the step forward and the progress that was announced at the committee meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u221	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Question time - 1.5 minutes. If any of you would like to join us again, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Mr Grzegorz July has the floor. There's no envoy. Mrs Iwona Krawczyk. There is no Member. Mr Robert Kropiwnicki. Absent. Mrs Zofia Czernow. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u222	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I'm asking you why there's no government representative in the process of this important bill. After all, this law is closely related to what the government promised to the inhabitants of Lower Silesia. The fossil tax is a tool for manipulating public opinion in the copper pit. Why? First of all, before the parliamentary elections, Mrs Beata Szydło spoke about the bill on the abolition of the fossil tax, showing it. Of course, this project didn't show up later. Secondly, in Lower Silesia, in the Sejm of Lower Silesia, a coalition agreement was signed with the participation of Minister Dworczyk, who promised, and it is recorded in the contract that 15% This tax will be allocated to local governments where KGHM operates and there are mines. Thirdly, in this project it is said: 15% tax less. It's the kind of catwalk that's supposed to make a fuss. as to how to understand whether the government gives these 15% Local governments or not. Because there's 15% here, too. , except that not for local governments of course, only 15% less tax on the budget. I wanted to ask you what the government said. I think he has a direct impact on this, and now he's avoiding the answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u223	Mr Piotr Pyzik. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u224	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! One of the historically oldest and logically best-founded taxes levied by the State is the tax on recovered minerals and other natural resources. Hence my question, especially in terms of the fact that the future of KGHM is important not only for the region but also for the country. Is it true that in 2008, the PO-PSL government removed KGHM from the list of strategic companies? Do we know why? Second line. Is it true that the Government of Law and Justice just saved KGHM from hostile takeover? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u225	Thank you. Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u226	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My previous question in the debate on this project was about the promises made by the Prime Minister, then the candidate for Prime Minister Beata Szydło, who, on every possible visit to Lower Silesia, promised that absolutely this fossil tax would be abolished, showed the blue file. To this day, this promise has not been fulfilled. I'm asking you where the blue file is, and I'm asking you, where's the project that was supposed to put up with the fossil tax? The second point concerns the deadline because we change the date of entry into force of the Act, it will be the first day of the month following the expiry of 30 days from the date of publication. I wanted to ask you what the expected financial effects for the company will be when this happens, and it will probably happen in the middle of this year. If I could get some information about the amounts that this project will bring, because we changed the date of entry into force of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u227	Thank you. Please, Mrs Elizabeth Stępień.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u228	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Guests gathered at the gallery as well! Welcome very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the idea of lowering the copper tax is expected, although I will admit that liquidation would be even more expected. My question is: Why did the government decide to take this step only in 2019? I would add that our region is largely supported by KGHM. Why should we not also support the development of the company by supporting new investments, even Głogów Głęboki, or investments in deposits in Lubuskie? Today, the company is in debt, which means it incurs a high cost of debt service. Is that the economy within the meaning of Law and Justice? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u229	Thank you, too. And I invite Mrs Ewa Drozd.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u230	Thank you, Marshal. I have a quick question. I will refer to the statements of my colleagues from a week ago and today, who spent a lot of time in the previous government's untimely investments in KGHM. You've talked a lot about these investments, about investments in the Huta Copper Głogów. You're probably talking about a suspension furnace and stuff. You also talked a lot about Sierra Gorda, about foreign investments, about how bad they are. All I can remind you is that these bad investments have affected the fact that KGHM has become an international company. At the end of the speech by the Member on behalf of the PiS Club, it was said that they were already starting to make some profits. Therefore, my question is: What have you changed in the way Sierra Gorda is managed, that today you are bragging in various newspapers about the operation of this mine? Let me just remind you that the investment started in 2012 and started in 2015. I don't know a company that brings in the first year of business no one knows what profits. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u231	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I invite the representative of the applicants of Mr Krzysztof Kubow.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u232	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I will refer my words to the parliamentarians of the Civic Platform again. And at first reading, and at yesterday's and today's committee meeting, I actually answered all these questions to you. About your narration about KGHM's electoral promises, sales 10% KGHM shares, about how you fooled the voters in the copper pit, what they remember until today... [[Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska: Who cheated?]] ...as you took KGHM off the list... [[Voice from the room: You cheated.]] ...the strategic companies, as you introduced the copper tax, explaining that there is a crisis, I have already talked about all this in the committee as well as in the first reading of this parliamentary project. As for the concern for the development of this company, ladies and gentlemen, let me not comment on this once again, because in comparison with what happened during the rule of law and justice, it is not comparable at all. I wouldn't even want to put it together, 'cause I'm sure you'd have to let your heads down and just shut up right now. [[Mr...]] On the other hand, I will address specific questions. Mrs Zofia Czernow asked about 15% for local governments. I, of course, spoke clearly in the Committee on Public Finance and stressed that this should be made clear: there was no communication that 15% from the tax transfer to the municipalities of the Miedzie Oblast. There was no such message, there were no such records, no coalition, so it's some ridiculous statement. As for Mr Piotr Pyzik's question about the photo from the list of strategic companies of KGHM, yes, Mr Pyzik, it is true. In 2008, the Civic Platform was removed from the list of strategic KGHM companies. What were the reasons for this? I'm not gonna answer you today. This, on the other hand, has clearly shown concern for the future of this company, for its further development. However, it is true that, in the rule of law and justice, a few months after we embraced governments, we introduced a regulation into the law on the control of certain investments, which directly secured KGHM before the hostile takeover, and this hostile takeover was then very real precisely in the context of these foreign investments, which in 2015 and 2016, in addition to the price of copper, were very important for the financial condition of KGHM. There were also questions about... This is a very colorful narration you apply to these posts, to subsequent salaries, etc. I would just like to remind you that it is in the rule of law and justice that these apanages, the remuneration of managers, have been greatly reduced. We've put in a system: 50%. salaries and 50% bonus. In our time it is not as it was for the Platforms, whether you stand or lie, it is due to payout, only we give specific guidance to managers and depending on what results they will have... [[Aren't you ashamed?]] The Law on the Management of State Property, Member, I remind you. And these salaries are much lower - it is worth noting and it is worth noting - in relation to the salaries of the managers who managed KGHM in your time. We can go ahead and show it on the numbers. Numbers do not deceive, ladies and gentlemen, in this respect. As regards the question of Elizabeth Stępień, debt, which amounts to more than PLN 7 billion, ladies and gentlemen, is largely due only to foreign investment. And I will answer the questions immediately to Mrs Ewa Drozd: What is it like with these investments? Are they finally profitable or aren't they? When are they gonna be here? Isn't that a hit investment? Isn't that a hit investment? I'll answer you now. 19 billion PLN jointly invested in foreign investments. On the one hand, great, because we can be glad that KGHM has become a global company. But with all due respect, someone who knows about mining, knows about the copper deposits in what we have, even in the Sierra Gorda mine, how he's gonna pull out his calculator and count when this investment returns, I can answer today that it's decades if he even returns. Member of the Commission, decades. And in the context of what you have said, namely as regards the investment in KGHM, the suspension furnace, because you have mentioned this, ladies and gentlemen, this suspension furnace would not actually have been effective if it had not been not for the fact that, at the end of 2018, the installation of the roasting of the concentrate, the Member, which was missing in the original project and which resulted in the fact that the investment was actually not profitable. Just so we're clear on that. I don't want to remind you of your narrative when you were in charge of the liquidation of ZG Lubin, about the liquidation of Huta Copper Legnica. I've told you all about it, and you know very well that it has. It's changing today. But, of course, we can verify it in a very simple way. I would like to thank, despite the very turbulent, but sometimes not entirely substantive discussion in the Committee on Public Finances, for the fact that we can all agree in one thing: that this tax introduced by the Civic Platform and PSL governments, with a narrative, because there is a crisis and we need money that we need to do something about this tax... And I'm glad we agree on that. We have a different approach to how and how this tax works. Let me stress once again, at the very end: these 15% This is the first step. As far as possible, we want to be responsible for this subject, and we want to implement our other programme proposals as well. I hope that the budget - maybe this year or next year - will allow for a further reduction of this tax, which, of course, will also... translate directly into the financial condition of KGHM. However, I will remind you once again: during the rule of law and justice, various management measures were taken, which greatly improve this condition. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u233	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u234	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This draft law concerns a 15% reduction the dimension of the tax on certain fossils. This is an attempt by PiS to rescue KGHM Polska Miedź SA, which is the largest payer of this tax. According to national media, such as Bankier's website. en or Gazeta Prawna. pl, one of the points of the coalition agreement in the Lower Silesian Voivodeship concluded between Law and Justice and Unparticipated Local Governmentists after the last local elections was a 15% reduction. The fossil tax. Is this law, therefore, a way of regulating the electoral debts incurred by the Law and Justice? Before the municipal elections, the government proposed that 5% the fossil tax was paid to municipalities where KGHM Polska Miedź operates. Before the next election, it proposes a 15% reduction. the contribution currently paid by only one company. I fear to think about the festival of promises that the High Sejm will bury in the coming months in order to satisfy selected social groups. What is the position of the Ministry of Finance vis-à-vis the contested bill? Why is the project being carried out in a parliamentary project without the necessary public consultation? In view of the upcoming elections, are further changes in tax laws planned to any extent?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u235	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 11 April this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. Please, Mr Aleksander Forczynski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u236	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Nine years have passed since that tragic Saturday morning, when we heard that a plane crashed with a Polish delegation in Smolensk. How much has happened since then, how many more tragic events have happened for many of us, especially personal ones. However, the Smoleńsk catastrophe has passed into the history of our homeland as the greatest tragedy of the Polish state since World War II. Holy Masses and anniversary celebrations are held throughout Poland on 10 April. Also in my hometown, Chojnice, in my parish, parish of St. The Queen's Jadwiga, for nine years, has held such celebrations. I am glad that we meet again during prayer in behalf of the victims and pray together for the welfare of our homeland. We owe our memory to all those who fought for our homeland for centuries, gave their lives for its freedom, served Poland also during peace. Let us remember that the delegation headed by President Lech Kaczyński was going to Katyn to pay tribute to the Polish officers murdered by the Stalinist NKVD. The participants of the tragic flight were going to take part in the sacrifice of the Holy Mass celebrated in behalf of the murdered Poles 70 years ago. They lost their lives on this inhuman earth. The Smolensk disaster has left a lasting mark on our nation. The victims of this tragic flight are still in our memory, and what they tried to do with their memory is how families who demand the truth and express their pain and helplessness were treated. We see how a lasting division has arisen in our society. For many years of Poland's history, tragic events brought us together, gave us mobilization for joint action, helping the victims, for elementary empathy, for human feelings of compassion. Unfortunately, the Smolensk disaster is an event that did not connect Poles. The hate sessions held in Kraków Przedmieście, where prayers were made for the victims, had little to do with compassion and seriousness of the death of the most important people in the country. Every subsequent anniversary of tragic events is a time of reflection and reflection. Many of us are wondering what Poland would look like today, if you lived President But Kaczyński, Anna Valentynowicz, parliamentarians, generals of the Polish Army, officials, all those who went to Katyn. We cannot forget about our predecessors, about people who have permanently entered Poland's history. It's our duty. This is how the identity of the nation, its culture, is built. We're referring to characters who have made a lasting mark on our history. No doubt such persons were on a plane that crashed on Smolensk land. Thank you so much for participating in the sacrifice of the Holy Mass. Thank you for giving us the opportunity to gather at St. Queen Jadwiga. Thank you, priest Jerzy Sikora, Prelate Henry Cyrzan, Fr. Dr. Janusz Chyle and all the priests who participated in this Eucharist. My special thanks to the young people. I'm glad for the third time that we have command, officers and soldiers of the Chojnice 34 with us. Radio-technical battalion. Gentlemen, you are particularly obliged to cultivate the memory of the victims of Katyn and Smolensk. Finally, I would also like - and perhaps above all - to thank the flagship posters of the Knights of Columbus, the Catholic school, the State Fire Department, the police, the military unit. Thank you to all the participants of this Eucharist yesterday. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u237	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Lidia Gądek. There is no Member. Mr Krzysztof Głuchowski. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u238	Dear Marshal, I would like to make a statement on a controversial or inconsistent resolution of the Podkarpackie Region Sejmik on waste management. In 2018, there was a change in the rules on waste management. According to the new legislation on the waste management plan, the marshals are required to identify a place that meets the conditions for waste storage, where vehicles with waste retained by the National Tax Administration, Border Guard, police, Road Transport Inspection will be operated. The Marshal pointed out such a place in Rzeszów at ul. It's a commodity. The designation of this place in accordance with the draft waste management plan has been subject to public consultation, as well as an opinion given by municipalities from the voivodship area. President Rzeszów presented a negative opinion, pointing out the following arguments: location in the centre of Rzeszów, densely populated area, exposure of residents to the effects of waste, the area does not constitute the property of the municipality, and also does not fit into the findings of the local spatial development plan. This opinion was not taken into account by the Marshal of the Voivodship. The resolution approving the waste management plan was adopted by the Marshal and was positively approved by the Minister of Environment on 28 February. and finally took place on 25 March this year. by the voivodship sejmik, indicating a place that meets the conditions of waste storage. Quotes from this resolution: Given the data of the CSO, the number of inhabitants in the Podkarpackie Voivodeship was 2129 thousand. and in accordance with Article. 24a paragraph. 3 of the Law of 14 December 2012 on waste in the Podkarpackie Voivodeship indicates three places of storage of waste to which vehicles with waste are to be driven. That's, among other things. ul. Stock 12 in Rzeszow. This is the location. close to a large number of waste manufacturers and concentration of transport routes. This location was adopted by the sejmik of the voivodship in breach of the applicable rules, and also with a negative opinion from the consultation period. A citizens' initiative has been taken, and we will implement it so that the inhabitants of Rzeszow have the right to ask for the repeal of this decision, the resolution that threatens these inhabitants with danger, and is also taken against the applicable rules. This is my first statement. Dear Marshal, I'd like to talk about communication right now. The beautiful town of Lańcut and its surroundings are a very attractive tourist destination. The Museum - the Łańcut Castle and the Museum of Poles Saving Jews during World War II are particularly popular for tourists. The Ulm families in Markowa. Therefore, for the comfort of tourists, and especially for the inhabitants of Łańcuta and surroundings, the construction of the A4 motorway link with the national road No. 94, as well as the completion of the investment task, which is the construction of the tunnel under railway crossing in Łańcut on the railway road No. 877 Łańcut - Leżajsk. The current communication of the Łańcut motorway junction with the national road No. 94 is possible by performing the function of internal roads Łańcuta ul. Subterfuge, Sikorski and Kościuszki. The lack of a connector results in increased traffic on access roads and even blocking of motorway exits. In addition, the inhabitants of these settlements are affected by noise and air pollution. It is worth noting that over 5 million vehicles pass through these streets every year. The construction of the liaison would significantly improve communication in the voivodship, especially within the Łańcucki and Przeworski districts. I therefore appeal to the Prime Minister, the Minister of Infrastructure and the authorities of the Podkarpackie Voivodeship to take all measures as soon as possible and resume the procedure relating to the construction of the national road link 94 with the A4 motorway at the Łańcuta motorway as soon as possible. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and construction of a tunnel under railway crossing in Łańcut along the voivodeship road no. 877 Łańcut - Leżajsk. It's important to the people of Podkarpacie. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-04-11-sejm-80-1.u239	Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On April 11, 1079, the seventh bishop of Cracow, probably the first natural Pole, Stanisław of Szczepanow, died of martyrdom. His ministry was characterized by great achievements in the history of Poland and the Church. Renovated after the invasion of Czech Duke Brestyslav the archbishopship of Gniezno developed the monastery movement, supporting numerous Benedictine foundations. He also led to the royal coronation of Bolesław Szczodry, thanks to wise cooperation and support of Poland for Pope Grzegorz VII in his fight against Emperor Henry IV. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. by 12 April 2019 at the latest 9. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 15 min 59]]
