ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u1	Please take your seats and quiet the conversations. I open the second sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland X term of office. [[The Marshal hits the Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Rafał Ambrozik and Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor as the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Rafał Ambrozik. I ask the secretaries to take their seats and prepare for work. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, yesterday was the thirty-eighth anniversary of the tragic events that took place on 16 December 1981 in the mine of Uncle. As a result of the brutal pacification carried out by the company ZOMO and ORMO, 9 miners were murdered. Please rise and celebrate with a minute of silence the memory of the tragically dead. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence.]] Give them eternal rest, Lord. And let eternal light shine upon them. Let them rest in eternal peace. Amen. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, on 19 November 2019 Franciszek Bachleda, Senator III, IV and V of the term of office, member of the Committee on the Environment, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Immigration and Poles abroad, and the Committee on Science, Education and Sport died. In the fourth term of office, he served as Chairman of the Committee on the Environment. I would add that at the funeral of Senator Senator Senator Hamerski, for which I thank you very much. Please rise and celebrate the minute of silence of Senator Francis Bachleda-Priest. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence.]] Give him eternal rest, Lord. And let eternal light shine upon him. May he rest in eternal peace. Amen. Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the first Senate meeting, in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, are prepared to be made available to the ladies and gentlemen of the Senate. If no one of your senators raises objections to it, it will be adopted at the next sitting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that point 5 and point 6 of the draft agenda be considered, although the printed matter in these cases has been provided at a later date than that specified in the Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. Thank you. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. High Izbo, I would like to inform you that the Committee on Budget and Public Finance during the review of the Law on the amendment of the excise tax law, paragraph 3 of the agenda, saw the need for legislative changes going beyond the matter of the law and on the basis of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 of the Senate Rules of Procedure presented a proposal for a legislative initiative. This initiative is included in Senate Print No 16. I ask all senators to be present at this item on the agenda, because we will then vote on the possible extension of the agenda for this initiative. I also propose to supplement the agenda with points: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 49th anniversary of bloody protests by workers on the Coast The Act amending the Act amending the Act amending the Act on excise duty and the Act on customs duty and considering it as the fourth item of the agenda; the Act amending the Law on special arrangements for the implementation of the Act for 2019 by the Council of Ministers as a matter of urgency; the Act amending the Act on retail tax and considering it as a point of the sixth order of business; the Act amending the Act on public collective transport and considering it as a point of the seventh order of business; the Act amending the Act on social security systems and the Act on National Tax Administration and considering it as a point of the eighth order of business. If I do not hear the votes of opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. Mr. Marshal? Yes? To the entire agenda... We'll talk about it again. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. High Senate, I inform you that Senator Bogdan Klich on 22 November 2019 in accordance with Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Senate's Rules of Procedure submitted a request to supplement the agenda for the item: information by the Prime Minister of the Republic on the situation of the Polish steel industry, with particular attention to the situation in the Kraków branch of ArcelorMittal, customs policy and presentation of the government's positions and plans to halt the collapse of the industry in Poland. I did not take into account the proposal submitted because I considered that this proposal should be dealt with by the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. Does the applicant still maintain his application?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, at the meeting of the Foreign Affairs Committee, we discussed, among others. with a significant increase in imports of Russian coal into Poland. 70% That's where our coal came from. Russian steel imports have also increased in recent years. I believe that this is a dangerous phenomenon that has already caused the collapse of Huta Częstochowa. With regard to the New Huta, ArcelorMittal in Kraków, it led to the extinction of the large furnace and steelworks. This is a dangerous situation for the Polish steel market and that is why I asked your marshal to take my proposal into account. But, Mr. Marshal, in order to reload this Senate meeting, please include it on the agenda of the next January Senate meeting. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. I understand that if the applicant withdraws his application from this sitting, we will deal with him at the next meeting. We'll notify the Ministry and ask for an answer. Is it okay to do this? Yes. Thank you very much. Thank you, too. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? You're welcome. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make a request to withdraw from the agenda of today's sitting and to postpone to the next meeting a point on the selection of senators to the National Judicial Council. According to the old program, this is point five, and according to the new marshal you're talking about, this is point eleven. We talked about this at the convention meeting. I have requested that this be removed from the agenda of today's sitting and that this request be examined at the next meeting. There are a few reasons for this, but there's one thing I'd like to talk about. Namely, we would like the Supreme Court to complete the decisions relating to the interpretation of decisions of the TSUE. We need this in order to define the role of the National Courts and at the same time to think calmly about sending Senate representatives to the National Courts. Recognizing that Parliament, specifically the Senate, is a chamber of reflection and reflection, I would ask you to postpone this point to the next sitting. That it's not in the constitution, that's not what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u5	Thank you very much. I'm not gonna answer any more. Are there voices of opposition? There isn't. So we assume that the point has been postponed to the next Senate meeting. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the second Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term. Dear Senators, I would like to inform you that in the absence of legislative proposals to point one, i.e. to draft a resolution on the 49th anniversary of the bloody repression of workers' protests on the Coast, the vote on this item will take place immediately after its consideration. If legislative proposals are tabled, the vote will be held after the end of the session and after the committee's report on the matter has been prepared. I would also like to inform you that today, following the examination of the second point, there will be a 15-minute adjournment at the club's request, and another adjournment, agreed at the Senior Convention, will be between 6 p.m. and 8 p.m. . I would like to inform you that tomorrow, at 12:00 p.m., an hour's rest will be announced, during which the senate meeting will take place in room 217. I would also like to inform you that the votes, apart from those mentioned earlier, will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Break o 6:00? Break 18. 00 and 20:00 p.m. We proceed with the examination of the item on the first agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 49th anniversary of bloody protests of workers on the coast. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, 49 years ago, tragic events occurred on the Coast, which were among the bloodiest in post-war history of Poland. In Gdańsk, Gdynia, Szczecin and Elbląg there were strikes, demonstrations and protests. The authorities of the Polish People's Republic decided to brutally deal with the protesters. According to official records, 46 people were killed, and more than 1,000 were injured. Please rise and celebrate with a minute of silence the memory of the fallen workers. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence.]] Give them eternal rest, Lord. And let eternal light shine upon them. Let them rest in eternal peace. Amen. Thank you very much. I would like to remind you that the draft resolution was introduced by Senator Jerzy Wczyła and is included in print No. 17, and the committee's report In print No 17 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Jerzy Wcisła, to present the committee's report on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! 17 December 1970 is one of the darkest days in the history of fighting the communist regime in Poland. At least 26 people were killed in Gdynia and Szczecin that day. On that day, Janek Wiśniewski was shot, the symbol of the victims of December, 70, and actually Zbyszek Godlewski, who was driving from Elbląg to Gdynia to work. High Senate, I have the double honor of presenting a draft resolution related to the 49th anniversary of the bloody protests of workers on the Coast today. Firstly, it is an honor to see that the project is being examined at the second Senate meeting of the 10th term, but at the first substantive meeting, i.e. we can say that the 10th term starts by paying tribute to the victims of December.70 Secondly, the honor is that I am a senator from Elbląg, one of the four cities in which the protests were strongest and the repression of power was the most cruel. Unfortunately, I have experience with Elbląg, but I think it translates into many other cities, that this awareness of the importance of December and August 80 in our cities is still small. I have made such a book, in Elbląg, and I know that we do not perceive these events as significant in the history of Poland and also in the history of Europe. That is why I think it is worth reminding you of these events. High Senate, 17 December 1970 entered Poland's history as a black Thursday. After discussions with many senators, including Marshal Tomasz Grodzki, we felt that, in this coincidence, we were beginning the work of the X term of the Senate and that today is the anniversary of the Black Thursday, we cannot go on the agenda and respect it only if. a minute of silence, but that such an appropriate resolution is needed. December '70 is a very important event in the history of Poland, because the scale of protests and victims is very large, but also because the experience of December '70 had a great impact, important for the later struggle for sovereignty and dignity of the nation. The content of the draft resolution, in my opinion, is consistently logical. As a rule, there is no ambition to be a modern verifier of knowledge about this event and is essentially focused on the event itself. It shows the causes of the protest and shows the process of the rise of the strike wave, at the same time the absolute lack of the will to dialogue and the willingness to agree by the government, but with evident willingness, from the very beginning, to strangle the protests with force, until the use of firearms, which happened. The resolution is also intended to show the importance of December and 70 for the crystallization of the anti-communist opposition in Poland, which resulted in the rise of the "Solidarity" in 1980, and then the fall of not only the Polish People's Republic, not only of communist power in Poland, but also the fall of the entire block of states called. Folk democracy and, in fact, the collapse of the poaltanian order of the world. During the meeting of the Legislative Commission, the draft resolution did not raise much controversy. There were some comments, 2 of which we took into account in the draft which I presented at the meeting of the Legislative Commission. One of these changes relates to the title of the resolution, but we left information that the resolution concerns the anniversary of the protests, without a literal mention, which is the anniversary. And at the request of one of the senators of the committee, we introduced another paragraph on the content: Unfortunately, to this day, the people responsible for the victims of December 1970 have not been judged, among others. Władysław Gomulka, Wojciech Jaruzelski and Stanisław Kociołek. Following these arrangements, additions and amendments, the committee adopted the draft unanimously. I would like to thank all the members of the committee who helped me prepare this resolution. I think you have a draft resolution ahead of you, so there's no need to read it. But if it is, of course I can read it. And if there are questions, I'm at your disposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u7	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the applicant. May I remind you that the applicant is also Senator Jerzy Wcisla. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u8	It's not a question, it's a request to read the text of the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u9	Mr. Senator... Yes, Mr. Marshal? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u10	The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the anniversary of bloody protests of workers on the Coast. In December 1970, the communist authorities decided to use the army to suppress workers' protests. Events on the Coast are one of the most tragic periods in contemporary history of Poland, and on December 17, 1970 it became a black Thursday. The direct cause of the protests was the drastic increases in food prices introduced on 12 December. Even before the announcement, increases were placed on the alert of the internal security unit, which proves that the authorities were expecting protests and were determined to use force to suppress them from the beginning. As the first, on 14 December 1970, they struck and went out on the streets of Gdansk Shipyard employees of Gdansk Shipyard. Lenin. The next day they joined the strikers of the Shipyard. Paris communes in Gdynia and Zamech in Elbląg, and in the following days The ship's crew. Adolf Warski in Szczecin and many other coastal facilities. The protesters organized marches, rallies and demonstrations, most often under the seat of the PZPR committees, and occupation strikes in the workplaces. Large groups of students joined the workers. Above all, the demand was to withdraw price increases, raise wages, and release of previously arrested activists. On the other hand, the government's will for dialogue was not present. Militia and the military brutally attacked the protesters, tried to surround and isolate the strikers in the workplace. Television informed about the Hulgian transgressions in Gdansk, Gdynia, Szczecin and Elbląg. The authorities have ordered the use of weapons. 17 December 1970 On Thursday, there was a massacre in Gdynia. The workers were fired at the bus stop this morning. Among the killed were Zbyszek Godlewski from Elbląg, whose body on the door the demonstrators carried the streets of Gdynia and who, as the hero of the song, Janek Wiśniewski fell, became a symbol of the victims of December events. In the following days 5,000 militiamen and 27,000 soldiers, 550 tanks, 700 armored transporters, more than 100 helicopters and aircraft participated in the suppression of protests. The coast has been pacified. More than 40 demonstrators were killed, more than a thousand injured, and more than 3,000 were brutally beaten and then detained. The victims were buried at night. December events have shown the ruthlessness of communist power ready to issue an order to shoot those who oppose it. Not only the protesters were shot, but also those who were accidentally or on their way to work. December 1970 was of great importance for the crystallization of the anti-communist opposition on the Coast, which 10 years later led to the creation of a great social and independence movement People's democracy countries in central and eastern Europe. The memory of December 1970 and August 1980 is an important element of Polish national identity. Identity, which not only includes knowledge of these events, but also treats them as a warning against the huge price it comes to pay for not respecting the canon of democracy and freedom. Only with this approach can we say that the victims of the struggle for bread and freedom and the new Poland have been incurred for nothing. Unfortunately, to this day, the persons responsible for the victims of December 1970 have not been judged, among others. Władysław Gomulka, Wojciech Jaruzelski and Stanisław Kociołek. The Senate of the Republic of Poland on the 49th anniversary of December events pays tribute to all those who opposed communist power. All those who lost their lives, their health, or their freedom. We pay tribute to heroes and victims of the Polish December 1970. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u11	Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to remind you of the need to sign up with the Senator leading the list of speakers. The senator's speech in the discussion must not last more than 10 minutes. Signed proposals of a legislative nature are submitted by the senators to the Senate marshal until the debate is closed. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very pleased that this initiative of the Senate has been created. I say this for several reasons, and as a historian by education, a practicing historian, and as a witness to those events. It so happened that at that time, in December 1970, I lived in Szczecin and those events were held partly under my school, it was school number 64 in the center of Szczecin. When the protesting shipbuilders who went out on the streets were pacified by organized repression forces, especially the ZOMO, then for the first time in my life I heard this ominous sound of hitting a bull's-eye, which later was well known to our generation from a time of martial law. Ladies and gentlemen, these were events that shocked the public, especially on the Coast. At the time, the power was quite effective in blocking information on this subject. I would like to say that there were situations such as one of Szczecin's workstations, when at the party meeting the secretary of the basic party organisation criticized the comrades who listened to the radio Free Europe. One of those employees of the city of Szczecin stood up and said this: Comrade Secretary! What are you talking about? In order for me to find out what's going on a few hundred meters from my house, I have to listen to Free Europe because there's no information. That was the mood at the time. Not to mention that the number of victims according to all estimates has been underestimated. It was lowered for several reasons, among others. because, under international law, events in which more than 50 people died could be monitored by international institutions. Thus, as Marshal Grodzki mentioned, the official number was given below 50 people. It so happened that my sister, then the doctor of Szczecin's ambulance, was on duty for 5 days and later told us what was happening, what was happening to the wounded, what was happening to the victims. They were transported at night, anonymously, in bags and burials took place, among others. at the Central Cemetery in Szczecin, in closed bags. It was shocking. As a young boy, a seventh-grade student... For me, for my colleagues, for my peers, for my whole family, these were shocking events. Therefore, High Izbo, I am pleased that at the meeting of the Legislative Commission it was possible to accept the amendments to the draft resolution, and I am pleased that it contains a paragraph which mentions the lack of legal clearance of the December 1970 crime. High Izbo, I hope this resolution will be adopted unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u13	Thank you very much, Senator. I'd like the floor of Senator George Fedorowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're in a place where we talk about our past. And maybe it's the past that made us talk about it so boldly right now. I took the liberty of taking these moments because when my cousin, Mr. Jackowski, was a boy, Mr. Marshal, too... ...a 12-year-old boy, I was already a man and an actor, then for a while... [[Talking in the O.R.]] What did your friend say? [[Voice from the room: Tell me...]] [[Voice from the room: You were a man...]] Excuse me. Anyway, I'm just gonna take a minute because I'd like to pay my respects to these people. I saw it with my own eyes. I saw it with my own eyes. And indeed, what I saw leaves a mark for life. I saw the Poles turn against the Poles, I saw the workers leave the yard on the 17th, I saw them fighting the militia, like the little boys, maybe at the age when Janek and the senator were at the time, rejecting the gas cans thrown by the militia, rejecting them towards the militia. I saw the tanks drive into the voivodeship committee. I've seen a portrait of Gomelka and Secretary Walaszek thrown away, if I recall his name. I saw places where it was... There's a place at the Pomeranian Princess Castle where there's a bullet mark where the girl was standing on the couch and a stray bullet just killed her. And now, to, well, add these emotions, I'm going to talk about a moment that's connected to my profession. Sometimes actors are treated like that. Well, I played Laertes in Hamlet Grudy, in a famous performance that started with the text: "In shipyards they work even on Sundays. We, playing the Danish nobility or the prince, were in gray clothes. And then, as the list of the dead was announced, Laertes was carrying on the hands of the dead Ofelia. And then people didn't think in those categories that Laertes was contributing to Hamlet's death, they just thought that some hurt boy was carrying his sister to the grave. And some of Szczecin... I don't know if the marshal was watching this show. But we played it. then for a very long time, for this very reason. And that was the sign. And I wish that this would never happen again in the history of our country so that we never get to this situation again. And to the colleagues who died there, and to the colleagues who helped, I pay tribute as Senator of the Republic. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u15	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on the anniversary of bloody labor protests on the Coast. Who among you is in favour of the project? Who's against it? Who abstained from voting? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted in favour, 95 votes against, and none of the senators abstained. [[Vote number one.]] [[Let's hear it.]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the anniversary of bloody protests of workers on the Coast. I would add from myself that I am proud of our House that we have taken this decision unanimously. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it.]] We proceed with the second agenda: the Act amending the Solidarity Fund for Disabled Persons Act and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 13 and the Commission's reports In prints Nos 13 A and 13 B. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Jan Filip Libicki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the examination of the Act on the Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy met at its meeting on 3 December. I will start by presenting the legislative proposals that were voted on during this committee's deliberations. There was a motion from Senator Majer to adopt the bill without amendment. He got two votes for, four votes against. There was an amendment tabled by me, consisting of 3 elements. The first element was to make it clear that the Solidarity Fund will be earmarked for the needs of people with disabilities. The second indicated that adequate forks should be introduced in the financial plan of this fund, i.e. that 20% appropriations should be earmarked for assistive services and 5% For resting care. And the third element of this amendment: appropriations not spent in a given year may be carried over to the following year. This motion received four votes in favour and two votes against. There were also two conclusions, so to speak, made by the Legislative Bureau, which I took the liberty of taking over. The first concerned the deletion of the words referred to in separate provisions from the Act. He got four votes for, two votes against. Another request from the Legislative Office was that, where we put it, the funds transferred from the Solidarity Fund to the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund and the Social Insurance Fund should be at the expense of the Fund, also to record that funds which are transferred in the same way to the National Health Fund are also at the expense of the Fund. This amendment, supported by Mr Swede, so to speak, obtained the result of a unanimous vote in favour. I would like to draw attention to the 4 comments made by the Legislative Bureau during these proceedings. In the first place, the Bureau referred to the lack of consultation as a breach of the legislative procedure. In addition, during the meeting of our committee, it was repeatedly stated that this project was not consulted with the environment of people with disabilities. In a sense, the meeting of our committee was a form of public consultation of this project with the environment, as I am about to say. The second motion we voted on has already been discussed. The Legislative Office indicated that there was a reference to separate provisions that do not exist, and it is difficult to refer to something that does not have a reference in other regulations. I also presented another request from the Legislative Bureau. The point is to say that the funds transferred to the National Health Fund represent the cost of the fund. Finally, the Legislative Office pointed out, in note four, that, with these records which are contained in this law, we are at risk of violating the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, which states that the President is to be able to use 30 days to review the law. If it were to enter into force from 1 January, we would not have given that opportunity to the President. It was just the Legal Bureau's attention. How was the discussion on our committee? I think it was generally going along such an axis. On the one hand, Minister Swede, as a government party, assured that, in fact, the Solidarity Fund, which was also supported by the Demographic Reserve Fund and the Labour Fund, would be financed with thirteen pensions, but what was promised by Mr Morawiecki That's what I call it. solidarity will be passed on to certain elements of support for people with disabilities It will not be affected. On the other hand, there was an opinion of the environment, which, I think, was, in fact, fully reflected in Mr Adam Zawisny's voice, which said that, in this connection, he would like an appropriate amendment to be tabled, which would ensure that, in fact, these measures, which from the Solidarity Fund, from taxation, from solidarity tribute, will appear, will be transferred to the needs and to the construction of these elements of support for people with disabilities, which have so far either been worse financed or not financed at all. It has been pointed out that the environment expects that assistance services, assisted employment and rest-care should be financed from these measures in particular. It was also pointed out that the provision of these services and their financing Poland took on its own, ratifying the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, where it is referred to the right of these people to independent life. It has been pointed out in this debate that it is precisely the financing of these three elements, i.e. assisted employment, assistive services and rest-care that are part of the implementation of these provisions of the Convention. So much for my report, Mr Marshal. Thank you very much. If there are questions, of course I would be happy to answer them. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u17	Thank you. We'll be right back. And now I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Richard Śvilski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u18	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances discussed this, discussed the amendment of the law at the committee meeting on 12 December. We would like to inform you that during the debate, we have taken up a number of threads, among others. Mr President just picked it up. I'm not gonna repeat them. I would like to inform you that the committee's proposal is to reject the amendment proposed in such a form of amendment to the Solidarity Fund for Disabled Persons Act. Please note the following fact. The Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities itself was created and such are the provisions of the Act To support people with disabilities. You know very well that these tasks which we are to carry out as legislators are literally written here, but also as executive authority, in support of people with disabilities. The President of Libicki spoke about these tasks just now. I would like to make it clear from this point of view that the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance is not against the payment of the thirteenth pension. I want to make this clear and clear. However, we find that the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities is not the fund from which this payment should be made. And this is another proposal that we have put forward as a committee. Furthermore, we do not agree with the fact that And that was also the voice in the discussion, in some way one social group is being set against the other social group. Yes, that must be said clearly and clearly. You know very well that this fund had a clear, clear goal, according to which it was named, and in this way it is shredded in a way. And really blurry. We're also talking about what... We argued at the committee meeting that the expenditure rule contained in the Public Finance Act is being explicitly avoided here. Public finances cannot be treated in this way. I would like to say once again that, in view of this formula, we recommend rejecting the amendment of the law in its entirety. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u19	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u20	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur, and basically three questions. My first question. According to Art. 34 The Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic in the case of committees and parliamentary laws for which no consultation has been carried out, the Marshal of the Sejm shall, prior to referral to the first reading, direct the draft to be consulted in accordance with the procedures and rules laid down in separate laws. My question is: why has this requirement not been met? Why hasn't there been a public consultation? Second question. How the government will secure people with disabilities, how it will ensure that their support projects continue to function and will not be closed, for example. because of what is most important - No funds? And a third. How is it that the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities, which has annual revenues of 1.5 billion, borrows a loan of 9 billion? Well, as a longtime businessman, I haven't met with such an economic miracle.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u21	Senator Władysław Komarnicki asked questions. But to whom? Who? To whom is that a question? Which senator? It's more like... it's for the minister? Senator Libicki. Good. Senator Libicki. You're welcome. Okay, okay, These senators, for whom this is the first term of office, I inform you that it will also be possible to ask questions to the government representative present at the meeting. You're welcome, Senator Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u22	Thank you very much. To answer the question of Senator Komarnicki, I can say this: the first of the comments of the Legislative Bureau was that there was no public consultation and that this was a violation of the legislative procedure. Our Legislature Bureau made that very clear. I am pleased that the meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy has allowed some kind of consultation, although perhaps less formal, and yet these consultations have taken place. I would like to remind you that the meeting of our committee was attended by representatives of more than 30 different non-governmental organisations who had the opportunity to comment on this issue. And why didn't the Marshal of the Sejm put this project to consultation? Well, that's the question. Not to me, but to the Marshal of the Seym, Mrs Elizabeth Witek. Line two. I'm thinking... I answer the third question now, and I leave it at the end of the second. Senator Komarnicki spoke as an entrepreneur about making commitments. I think, in some sense, the answer to this question from the senator is what Senator Marek Plura was talking about at the committee meeting. Well, it seems that this operation is really about to finance not the thirteenth pension that is to be paid in the future, but it is about to cover a hole that was created by the payment of the thirteenth pension in May of this year. And I'm finally answering the second question. I can tell you this: this fund is a fruit, the result of the meeting of Prime Minister Morawiecki during the strike of people with disabilities and their parents not far from here, in the building of the Sejm. And when Prime Minister Morawiecki appeared at this meeting, it was very clear about the expectations of people with disabilities, there were indications of the environment for which elements of support or funding of the support system would want these funds to be earmarked. It is obvious that today, for example. Personal assistance of persons with disabilities is functioning, but operates in the form of piloting. The possibility of reaching for funds from this fund was a certain hope that this piloting would turn into a more universal service. Besides, I can also quote Mrs. Aleksandra Chromik, who came to us from Katowice and who is the mother of a girl, so to speak, about intellectual disability. She clearly indicated that she was in such a situation that only the funds from this fund could give her some hope for effective and proper rehabilitation and support for her daughter. So much for Senator Komarnicki's questions. Maybe I'd stay here, technically it would be easier, and then eventually, in the second part, there'd be questions for the other senator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u23	Thank you. Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u24	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I am addressing my question to the representative of the government. Well, I'd like to ask you what it's meant to do...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u25	It's not right now, Senator. That's why... Right now... Okay, I'm sorry. ...there are questions for the senators of the rapporteurs, and then there will be separate questions for the representative of the government. I wanted to combine this, Mr. Marshal, because on the one hand I wanted to ask a question to the representative of the government, and on the other hand I wanted to ask our colleague, Senator Śvilski, for his opinion. Then ask your opinion... Good. ...and then... It's just that I need an answer from a government representative first and then an opinion. Well, you can't do that. Complicated... I can't stop answering the senators' questions. First, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, the rapporteur's senators answer, and then there is the speech of the government representative and there are answers to the questions that we address to him. So if you want to ask any more questions to... I'll wait until I can address the question to the government representative. Good. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Now you're asking Senator Magdalena Lovers. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'll ask for the same thing. I'll wait for the government representative. Yeah, I think you're right. Are there any more questions for the Senators of the rapporteurs? There isn't. Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you. The bill was introduced by Members. Would you like to speak on the bill under consideration? Yes. You're welcome. Okay, okay, There you go, Minister, please. Okay, I'm just gonna pick up my platform. Oh, yeah, good, good. Now. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! A few words before we move on to a round of questions. I would also like to refer to the statements of the rapporteurs of the committee and to ensure that all the environments of people with disabilities are not at all at risk with regard to the implementation of the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities. All tasks, activities that are recorded in this fund will be carried out. The resources are provided and I can calm all groups who are concerned about change. The change is that the Solidarity Fund, which will have such a name, replaces the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities so that it can have the additional task of financing one-off from next year onwards. The pension allowance in the form of a 13th pension and in 2021 also in the form of a 14th pension. These actions are being taken and here, as I said, there is no danger. The Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities was so designed that it is implemented on the basis of the programmes we are announcing. And this year, which ends, these programs have been launched, as well as the same programs have already been launched for next year. It is worth recalling, because this is also the discussion. This is because I represent the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy and I want to draw attention to this aspect of support for people with disabilities. The programme on care services for people with disabilities is already in place. As part of the 2019 edition, we transferred over PLN 31 million to 320 municipalities. This year's budget was PLN 60 million. In the next year's budget we are provided with 40 million PLN for care services for people with disabilities. Such a program has also been launched. At the moment more than 300 municipalities receive funding from this scheme for over PLN 23 million. The appropriations are also provided in the next year's budget. The care and residential centers of this program have also been launched. By now, more than PLN 10 million has been allocated for this, and next year we will spend more than PLN 120 million on this action. And also what has already been emphasized here, i.e. personal assistant to a disabled person. This program came in at the latest this year because it was announced at the beginning of October. We assume that... this year the amount that was earmarked for this was the amount of 30 million, in the future we expect the amount of 80 million PLN for this programme. And there is, of course, a new task that was created under the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities. This is, of course, support in the form of a supplementary benefit for persons unable to live independently, i.e. additional funds of 500 PLN for all those who meet these conditions. We assume that he will benefit from this program of over 800,000 eligible. This year, the money we spend on this from a solidarity fund is PLN 820 million. Next year we are expecting PLN 4.5 billion, i.e. in the next year's budget for actions taken against people with disabilities, the amount of PLN 5 billion will be independent. There is no risk that these tasks will not be financed by the Solidarity Fund, which we hope will It will take that name next year. These actions that we have taken, actions concerning this year, are to borrow from the Demographic Reserve Fund to compensate for the loss that will be compensated by the Social Insurance Fund. So the Demographic Reserve Fund will not suffer any loss this year either. So much for that, Mr. Marshal. If there's any questions, I'll answer them.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u27	Thank you, Minister. There are questions. In order, you're asking Senator Danuta Jazłowicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u28	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would like to ask what it is to do to violate public finance management rules, and what I mean is above all citizens' taxes by introducing in the act the informal financing of fixed financial burdens, by avoiding expenditure rules, by introducing a new instrument, which is a very disturbing one, because what you are proposing is that we will borrow from one fund to another, then from this fund maybe to another, and then to another. This is very dangerous when it comes to public finance management. I would like to ask what is the real reason for such chaos in the management of these finances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u29	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u30	Mr. Marshal! Senator! Maybe I'll answer with a letter from the Minister of Finance. At the request of Marshal Borusewicz after the committee meeting, we asked the Minister to respond, among others. That's the question the senator asked. The Minister of Finance responded in this way, and I will recall the entire content. The Act of 21 November 2019 amending the Solidarity Fund Act for the Support of Persons with Disabilities and certain other laws does not alter the legal form of the Fund which is the subject of the Act. The Solidarity Fund remains a State-owned special-purpose fund under the provisions of the bill and, like all other State-owned special-purpose funds, with the exception of the Labour Fund, remains outside the scope of the entities covered by the amount of expenditure stabilizing the expenditure rule. According to Art. 112aa paragraph. 1 of the Public Finance Act, the amount of expenditure stabilizing the expenditure rule shall include the bodies and entities referred to in Article. Point 9 (1) to (3), point 8 excluding the Social Insurance Institution and point 9 excluding the Labour Fund, the Banking Guarantee Fund, as well as the funds created, entrusted or transferred to the Bank for National Farms under separate laws. Therefore, the expenditure of the Fund has not affected the amount of the limit resulting from the stabilisation of the expenditure rule since its start, nor is it covered by this rule. On the other hand, the fund is part of the public finance sector, so its outcome affects the performance of the whole public finance sector. This is an explanatory letter that we received from the Ministry of Finance on the issue of financing support from the Solidarity Fund.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u31	Thank you. Senator... May I? I volunteered, yes... Senator, I was just about to turn you in. I can see everything from here. Senator Magdalena Loven.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I will recall the words of the Minister in his first speech preceding our questions. You said that all the activities and tasks envisaged for this fund, which today is still called a fund to support people with disabilities, will be carried out. Meanwhile, I have the impression that the State in the Ministry has narrowed down the number of actions needed by this group. I'm sure I'll say it again: There are no words in this draft law, including in these new tasks, about the pensions of the EWK. The Minister knows, because we have not dealt with these matters since yesterday, how unfair it is to pay and not equalize the difference between the provision that mom or dad, the caretaker of a child with disabilities, receives according to current legislation, and the pension that parents of persons with disabilities have decided on so that this pension is higher than the pension that is in force at the time when they retire. Today, this discrepancy is huge. The Minister can't say he doesn't know it because we're talking about it for a year in a row. Question: Will this fund we are talking about satisfy these needs and compensate for the EWK's pension? Is this fund that we're talking about today that he's taking it easy and getting a loan that's not interest-free from a democratic fund... Demographic. ...demographically, will satisfy the needs and execute the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal in respect of carers of adults with disabilities? No. And finally, Minister, I'm no longer in line with the bills. If the revenue of this fund is PLN 1.5 billion, the loan to be borrowed is PLN 9 billion, then the amount of PLN 10.5 billion comes out. The Minister and everyone sitting here know that the payout of the 13th pension is nearly 11 billion. So why do you have money to meet any needs of people with disabilities from this fund that you are proposing? I fully agree with the proposal of the public finance committee to reject this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u33	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u34	To answer these questions directly, Senator, I can answer in this way that the EWK problem has been known to us for many, many years, because it is a matter of decades, how this witness works. Today, the situation is that measures for people who are in the pension system are even lower than care provision. We're aware of that. Let me remind you that the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities has 2 sources. One source is the Labour Fund, the Labour Fund is funded by the Solidarity Fund, i.e. this contribution of 0,15% from the Labour Fund. The second is this tribute, which we do not yet have, which will come from 4% of the highest earnings, those above 1 million PLN, and it comes in this year. We have borrowed PLN 4 billion from the Labour Fund for the support of independent individuals, and this loan will finance the actions that will be carried out next year and which will cover this support action, which I mentioned, amounting to PLN 4.5 billion. So these actions that we have taken are implemented under the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities. And the transformation of this fund into a Solidarity Fund does not change this formula. I agree that the problem you were talking about, i.e. concerning both the EWK and the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, is ahead of us. We are open to proposals on this matter, but not on the occasion of a change in this fund, because it's like it's not the matter we're talking about today.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u35	Senator Adam Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u36	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have three questions for the Minister. One concerns the issue of loans already raised, but I mean something else. The very idea of one state fund lending money to another state fund is probably critical, and this is certainly an incomprehensible situation. But since you are already proposing such a strange solution, and since we are dealing with such a gigantic, unimaginable amount of 9 billion PLN, I would like to ask under what conditions this loan is to be granted. It's said to be interest-free. But what are the other conditions? How long is this supposed to last? Who, when, from what, from what income is it to pay off? And if this is supposed to be, by implied means, such a loan granted ad Kalendas Graecas, then why and who are the moms' governments, using the concept of a fairly clear, clearly defined meaning, or the concept of a loan? The second point is matters, I would say, formal and related to the principles of a democratic state and respect for citizens, whom you yourself call a sovereign almost every day, only that you do not respect this sovereign. I'm talking about the lack of public consultation. Each draft law Because it is not true that this applies only to government projects, it must be subject to consultation, firstly, inter-ministerial and secondly, social. Thus, every draft law, including a parliamentary law, should be subject to consultation, even in respect of the principle of democratic rule of law and in respect for citizens. And if it concerns such sensitive issues and such a sensitive subject as in this case, it should be consulted, especially with the environments concerned. However, I do not know anything about you consulting this bill with the environments of people with disabilities. I ignore the question whether you have consulted with those who are to contribute to this mentioned fund and must pay money for this fund out of their hard work. And the third point, the question of the entry into force of the proposed law. Here is another element of violation of the democratic state principle, but also violations of the principles of the Constitution. . confirmed by the Constitutional Tribunal, and many times Because you're proposing here that there's virtually no vacathio legis. I'd like the Minister to address these three cases. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u37	You're welcome, Minister. Thank you, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u38	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I've already answered these questions in some way. Mr. Senator also confirmed that this is a parliamentary project, and the parliamentary project does not have to, according to law, be subject to public consultation, which does not mean that it cannot go to them. But it didn't happen in this case. I represent the government and we were not participants in the consultation in the sense that there was no government position for this project. The project was parliamentary and I find it difficult to relate to why there was no such form of consultation. So that I can answer so much about it. Mr. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u39	No, no, one at a time. Gentlemen of the Senators... Ad vocem! Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Gentlemen of the Senators, by the rules of procedure. I read it. I always read it. A maximum of one minute of questioning may be reported to the representative of the government. Therefore, I ask you not to tell me, but to ask. The speeches will be here in a minute, please sign up for them. Just cut it short and just ask questions. I prepared a list, but the minister didn't answer... I understand, but we can't force the Minister to answer that question, Senator. Next up is Senator Blackbay. No, Senator Marek Plura is next. Mr. Leszek Czarnobaj signed up. You're welcome, Senator Marek Plura. Are you Senator... I'm here. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u40	Mr. Marshal, I'd like to ask you a question... You want to sign up again? No, thank you. ...to the Minister, especially when watching the parliamentary debate and the debates in the Senate committees, I know that the Minister, even though this is not a government project, defends this solution. Therefore, questions about knowledge. Minister, you have just said, and many times before, that, despite these strange financial movements, as a result of which the Solidarity Fund is a transmission belt between other large-scale funds, there is enough resources to carry out the tasks for which this fund was set up, or at least I understood the Prime Minister's declaration during the protest of people with disabilities, when the creation of this fund was supposed to be, I understand, such a social response to this protest. Then it was a positive response, today, with these changes, in my opinion it is a negative response. You mentioned to the Minister that the money was enough after all. But I have the basic question: how do you know, Minister, that's enough? How is the need for assistance for people with disabilities estimated? How? Is it the applicant, mute today, absent, or maybe the ministry of the family calculated how many assistants do it take to finally provide care in Poland? How much money is also needed, when we are talking about changes to the objectives of this fund, to implement the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, which for many years has ordered equal treatment for carers who are parents and other family members who do not take up employment because of the necessary care? How do we know the money's enough? You pointed out these programs with the next year at the level of, well, just a few, maybe a dozen percent of the 1.5-billion-dollar amount that the fund is supposed to have at its disposal. Does that mean this fund is too big? Maybe this tax is too big? How do we know that all needs will be met? Or are these just the needs that you're noticing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u41	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u42	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The answer is quite simple. In recent years, we have allocated much higher resources to support people with disabilities. In 2014 we allocated PLN 14 billion to support people with disabilities. In 2018 it was already over PLN 19 billion. This year it will amount to over PLN 21 billion. We expect 27 billion PLN to be supported in 2020. So that we have a clear progress, an increase in resources to support people with disabilities by more than PLN 10 billion during the period during which governments ruled law and justice. And that's the way we're going. Problems... We need the drugs all the time. And among others. This is why the Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities was created. Looking for all kinds of funding for this fund... For me, from the point of view of the ministry of the family, it is important that we use these resources to support people... And these programs... I can also list here activities concerning workshops of occupational therapy, the increase in spending on ZAZ, i.e. institutions of professional activity, etc. Those drugs are growing. Also support on other issues concerning people with disabilities... Problems concerning people with disabilities We all know this as we are here, and many of you were also in the Sejm They've been here for decades. We're trying to solve them over the next few years. And this path we have chosen is a way to make support for people with disabilities higher. It is support for the independent, it will support the care system. Of course, we also need action from the local government, from those who are involved. Because when we talk about care, about caring services, there's a huge role of self-government here, which has to be involved in all of this. We're not only able to act directly from the ministry or the government here, because... if, I don't know, it's a matter of meals. We have in the program the meals at school and at home the possibility of delivering meals for the elderly, there are other care services that the municipality can carry out. Now, if you look at these programs that we've started 4 pilot programmes this year, next year they will already be programmes You can see that the interest was at different levels. I told you here earlier, in my statement, that about 300 municipalities benefited from these programmes. This is, of course, very little, but we hope that in the following years local governments will approach this, giving greater opportunities to support people with disabilities. And we're ready for this discussion, too. We're starting another term. I think that one of the topics that we will be discussing is what the senator was talking about, the issue of the EWK, the question of the execution of the Constitutional Tribunal judgment. Here I remind you that we are ahead of a very difficult reform, which is the reform of case law. Many governments have tried this reform and we have not led to a new system of case law. This is ahead of us. We have a project prepared, prepared by an interministerial team in the previous term. It will be worthwhile to use this project. But without the enormous effort made by all of us, together, regarding the new system of case law, we will not build a new system of support, a proper system of support for people with disabilities. It's about spending money... so that this money is spent on those people who need support the most. Well, I won't go back to history, but remember when it was opened... The issue of care provision, for example. What happened? Of the 300,000 eligible people suddenly became 1 million 200 eligible persons. We remember that. Then there was the consequence that the previous coalition tried to change it, then there was the Court's judgment, and to this day we stand still. You just have to try to regulate it, but you have to make sense. And one of the sensible actions is the question of case law, the new system of case law. Today we have several systems of case law that overlap and mix. If we want to build a support system, a real, correct support system for people with disabilities, then there must be a new system of case law. Because without it, we can't deal with all of this, even though we've added billions more of zlotys to this system.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u43	Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska asks a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Your Senate, Minister, I would like to ask you why, when preparing your electoral promises, you have made no effort and have not found another source of funding for at least thirteen pensions, but in the simplest way at the moment you are absolutely destroying the social security system. Well, the funds collected for 20 years are now nearly 1/4 will be taken You say "borrowed" for a one-off benefit, which, well, we know what its nature is. I'm asking you this effort, but I'm also asking about the future. In the same way, will another 13th and 14th pensions be financed in the simplest way? And is the Minister aware, therefore, that after 2022, the Demographic Reserve Fund could simply be closed? What are your plans for the next years? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u45	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u46	Mr. Marshal! Senator! In this submission that you have in front of you... the Demographic Reserve Fund will not lose anything on this operation. There will be a loan to be paid off from the Social Insurance Fund. The Demographic Reserve Fund will remain at the same level. This is a broader discussion about... We could discuss the Demographic Reserve Fund. Of course, the fund, which we created many, many years ago, was designed to secure our resources for the future. For various reasons We don't have time to explain it here. It's just the way it is. There are only 40 billion zlotys on the fund, not e.g. 400 billion PLN. We can answer together the question of why this has happened, what has happened for decades, that there is no such amount on this fund. I could argue on that. In the Social Insurance Fund itself we have 270 billion zlotys per year. It's like a basic fund that pays our benefits. He's safe, he's secure. It is also secured by State resources. So the Social Insurance Fund's losses are secured by state funds. The reserve fund, as I said today, will not lose anything in this operation. I think the explanation you received from the Ministry of Finance explains these operations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u47	Senator Lover. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u48	Thank you very much. I just want to ask you a question. Minister, it is very hard to believe that the government looks carefree at the hash of Members in billions. If you accept the fact that Members bring in projects where they borrow funds from the Fund, they move them from another, and these are not funds in the order of PLN 100 or PLN 200 000... Or even a million. ...or even a million, as my colleagues tell me here, but a dozen and tens of billion zlotys, either the government is not competent, or you allow parliamentarians who create the law to intervene too much in public finances. It's just that none of us here in the world believe fairy tales, Minister. The project was prepared, or actually tabled by Members, because you wanted to avoid the requirement of public consultation. If that's the case... I'm gonna ask the minister because whatever he thinks, the government has to accept it. You have easily accepted the payment of social pensions and funeral allowances from the Solidarity Fund. Until now, they have been benefits and pensions paid from the Social Insurance Fund. You may like this fund, you may not like it, but it is a state institution that guarantees its citizens payments and pensions, and pensions, and everything. The environment is scared. If this fund takes over social security and funeral benefits... What's more, the state in the bill is writing, i.e. Members write, and you accept that people will get the money if the money is there. Because they can be paid, but they don't have to be paid. Tell me if this environment can be peaceful about paying benefits.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u49	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u50	Mr. Marshal! Senator! Social pension is a support for people with disabilities. Let me remind you that this is a benefit paid up to the age of eighteen or up to the age of twenty-five in the case of learning children. So it's not a quasi-retirement system. As far as searching for sources of funding is concerned, we have found the source of the Solidarity Fund. So that there is no danger that it will not be paid out of this fund, which is also a state fund. It's not another fund, one that I'm going to say is a threat when it comes to paying social benefits.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u51	Thank you, Minister. Senator Philip Libicki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u52	Thank you very much. Minister, I'm just trying to clarify something. You said here. This is, of course, true. By listing all these elements of support that are financed, that PLN 40 million is spent on rest-care, for the care service, 30 million, for the care and care centers, 120 million, for assistive services, 80 million. You said... Some of this data came from your speech here today, some from the committee meeting. And that, of course, is true. The only problem is this. Please remove me from error by answering this question. In fact, the agreement between Prime Minister Morawiecki and protesting persons with disabilities and their parents concerned precisely that the Solidarity Fund funds would allow us to exit from the level of pilotage to the level of services that are available to the general public. In fact, if the environment is demanding that this fund is restored, it is precisely so that these pilots can finally turn into more accessible services. Is it true that what you've been saying is about funding pilot programmes? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u53	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u54	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr Senator, I understand it in this way, as I explained, that this first action was a pilot action, and now we are announcing and announcing programmes that will be implemented under the Solidarity Fund. There's no danger, because we haven't changed anything about it. We only add to actions that are in the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities, actions related to the payment of 13, social pensions, etc. So nothing changes in this area. But of course we are open, after all, every year by the end of November we announce these programs. And these programs have been announced. The next time this will be in 2020, then these programmes will be announced again. So we're open. If there is any further action, we will talk about it, adjust it to make these programmes real and also look for financial support under the Solidarity Fund for these programmes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u55	Thank you. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u56	Mr. Marshal! Minister! It is a parliamentary project, so I would like to ask the Minister whether the Minister personally or one of the representatives, from the Ministry's staff, worked on the bill. If the Minister doesn't know 'Cause you might not know that. I would then ask for a written reply, yes or no. That's the first question. Second question. The Minister said that the FUS, the Social Insurance Fund, will finance what the Demographic Reserve Fund will borrow. Would you mind telling me... Because I think it's a very interesting mathematical element. We provide budget support at the level of PLN 45 billion allocated to the FUS. Then where's the FUS gonna get the money to pay back the $9 billion? Could you explain that to me? I'm very curious about that. This is an interesting element of economics and mathematics. That's the second question. And a third. Minister, tell me why the FUS, and of course ZUS as an executive element cannot finance these three tasks... Directly. ...directly? Why doesn't the minister think he can finance it as a man in the industry? That's the third question. And four. Minister, I'm meeting with the voters, with the sovereign, and they're asking: listen, we're reading and we don't know how it's gonna be financed there, where the money's coming from. Well, just out of curiosity... I'm starting to have some doubts there. Could the Minister show such an engineering path: we take it from the Demographic Reserve Fund, we transfer it to the Solidarity Fund, and in the Solidarity Fund they take it and pay it to pensioners. What is the road from the Demographic Reserve Fund to the person entitled to the benefit? If the Minister could name these stages... No comment, no comment, no comment. I'll write it myself at the meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u57	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u58	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! In our ministry, there was no work on this proposal that today... I'm not asking if it lasted. I'm asking if any of you participated. That's the fundamental difference. I answer you this, and you say, you comment... and I answer you the question. You can either take my answer or you can't, it's your decision. I'm telling you, we haven't been able to work on this project in our ministry. As for the funds that are paid out of the fund... It didn't last, did it? Didn't work last? It didn't last. Because the question was... The work wasn't permanent. As for the question you asked about financial engineering, I'm going to use the Minister of Finance's answer again, because it's kind of in terms of funding... I am more focused on the response concerning the activities of our Ministry, support and protection of the rights of people with disabilities, which result from the Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities, the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities... Mr. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u59	Thank you. I'd like to... In a minute. Can I request a written reply? Please, if there's a conclusion, yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u60	Mr. Marshal! Minister! In accordance with this House's custom, I would like to request a written reply. The question is: did the Minister or any of the Ministry's staff participate in the work related to the creation of this law? A question mark and nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u61	Thank you. We're writing it down for protocol. And now... Mr. Marshal, just for statistics, I would like to say that the Minister has not answered any questions. But I expected this, so that thank you, Minister, very cordially. Thank you, Senator. And now Senator Andrzej Kobiak is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u62	Minister, this question has already been asked, but the answers have not been heard either, so I allow myself to ask them again. We have before us the opinion of the Senate Legislative Office, which clearly states that this law, as regards the vacathio legis and the time when the President signs the bill, violates constitutional principles, violates the constitution. Therefore, I have such a simple question: who will be responsible for breaking the Constitution? Are the authors of this bill, or is Parliament, if this law is adopted? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u63	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u64	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, the decision to sign the bill will be made by the President and that is his competence. He has the option of signing the bill within 30 days and he will decide whether this period, which will be left to him, so to speak, left to sign the law, is sufficient. It is within the authority of the President, and I find it difficult to relate to it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u65	Thank you, Minister. More questions... There it is. Oh, there it is. Excuse me. Excuse me, Senator. Senator... Jazlowiecka. ...Danuta Jazłowiecka, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would like to draw your attention to one thing. We are here asking questions on behalf of the Polish society and I will admit that I am amazed that it is indifferent to you whether we will accept your answer or not. Most of your answers don't satisfy us. First of all, it doesn't satisfy me, because reading the Minister of Finance's letter in response to the questions I asked is not the answer to these questions. And I have to tell you that this is all the more disturbing because we hear more and more and more that the government is running creative accounting. This is really worrying, and I suspect that the lack of answers to these questions and the lack of a detailed answer, why we are converting the special fund into a fund to everything, particularly worrying for people with disabilities, because the experience of this environment so far is very bad experience in the context of the government's embarrassing treatment of this particular environment. Senator, ask me a question. You're welcome to... You might want to repeat the question. ...you told me to ensure this environment that the fund, which will now be a fund for everything, will carry out the tasks it has, and that the 10 tasks you have written down will be fully carried out next year. Because only a few of them were realized this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u67	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u68	Mr. Marshal, Mrs. Senator, I respect each and every one of you, and I answer as much as I know about the subjects that you and I... You may not think so. I answer according to the law you put on me. And once again, I confirm that in the case of these four programmes that we are going to implement next year, we have provided funding from the solidarity support fund.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u69	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you, Minister. I would like to inform you that a government representative has committed himself to answering in writing the questions asked by Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to remind you of the need to sign up with the Senator leading the list of speakers. The senator's speech in the discussion must not last more than 10 minutes. Signed proposals of a legislative nature are submitted by the senators to the Senate marshal until the debate is closed. And please take the floor of Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u70	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Of course, I had a lot of questions for the Minister, but I didn't ask them because I've known him as a minister for years, and I like him, and I really didn't want to put him in such a difficult position as the government put him in. Because you, Minister, had to answer here the question of why a project, which provides for a turnover of 9 or 10 billion PLN, is being submitted by Members. You can't answer that question, as it turns out, honestly. You had to explain why the Social Insurance Fund simply does not receive an increased grant from the budget and does not pay this 13th pension, but there is a combination which the Warsaw people call a combination of 3 fingers. Finally, you ensure, but without any guarantee, that the funds to be used in this fund for support for the disabled will be fully earmarked for this purpose. And yet we have one bag and in this bag there are both payments from the Labour Fund and from so-called. millionaires who were supposed to go for the disabled, as well as some amount that had to go for a completely different purpose. Few can be used for this purpose in the future, as is the case with this fund. Finally, it is extremely difficult to answer the question of why this law also concerns the payment of the thirteenth pension, the payment that has already taken place. Retirement paid out. When? In March of this year... May, May. May. Or May. Okay, May this year. It would seem to have been written in the books a long time ago, but it turns out not. Either it has been written out of these books and is being carried out by the Demographic Reserve Fund, the Solidarity Fund and the Social Insurance Fund at the moment. So I have to say, I wasn't jealous of your role. And yet the answers are very simple here. The answer is that the expenditure rule is being avoided. This is a violation of the bill, Minister. The expenditure rule for this year provided for specific expenditure. Turns out this 13th pension couldn't fit in them anymore. The idea was therefore made to use the funds referred to here. And now: I remember that at the beginning of that term, when the Budget Act was discussed here, representatives of Law and Justice, Senator Bierecki, who was then... Oh, there's Senator Bierecki! Good morning. Senator Bierecki, then the rapporteur of this law, was very concerned with previous governments who used loans to the Social Insurance Fund. I'm sure the senator remembers that. Indeed, the Social Insurance Fund used loans that avoided budget expenditure and were reflected only in public debt. But these were difficult times, these were times of economic crisis, times when the deficit was fought. It wasn't a pretty practice, but at least she had some excuse. Senator Bierecki was joking here that it was... he used such a phrase that it was frivolity, such frivolous budgeting on the principle that the FUS would lend, we don't know when he would give back, where he would give back, etc., etc. The same was done by Prime Minister Morawiecki, who proudly declared that this government would in no way benefit from any such loans and any such bypasses. Well, enough to say, these assurances for three or four years, and suddenly it turns out that this method has to be used, this time in the case of a fund whose name on top has to be changed, otherwise it is not very clear why the money should be transferred. So, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we are dealing with... You read what the Minister of Finance wrote to you, and I understand that. But what did the Minister of Finance say? The Minister of Finance wrote that the Solidarity Fund is usually taken out as an expenditure and that is why he uses it. By the way, it will be worthwhile to deal with this and to improve this spending rule a little bit in the future. So point one: this is an absolute violation of the spending rule... maybe bypassing the spending rule, not breaking it, but avoiding the spending rule. Therefore, I am not surprised that the Committee on Budgets and Finance has submitted a motion to reject this law, as well as that many senators are rebelling against such laws and adopting such laws. On the other hand, it is so that certainly And I'm also saying this on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club. We are not against the payment of this 13th pension. No matter what we think about these 13s being paid somehow so strangely before the election, we're not against it. The vote against this could be read as such. But that's not the most important thing. The most important thing is what comes from the consultation... Second consultation. Senator Libicki, chairman of the committee, called this consultation. And it was then that people with disabilities and their representatives, who came here, raised one fundamental topic: well, and what is the guarantee that after these funds, which are coming from the Labour Fund and from the so-called. millionaires and intended exclusively for disabled people, the resources that are now in one bag with some other money, the government won't want to reach, maybe temporarily, can only borrow, but reach, so they won't go for the disabled? Well, the Minister guarantees you won't. But when it comes to disabled people, they'd prefer a written guarantee... It's a statutory one. ...means They'd prefer a statutory guarantee. That is why I allow myself to make a small amendment with Senator Libicki. She says that the measures that have been taken from these sources, which have so far been mentioned in the Support Fund Act, can only be used for the purposes which have been included in this Act so far. So if the government puts any other money in there, it's hard enough, and if that money wants to borrow somewhere, then go ahead, but under no circumstances will it be able to reach for the money that is meant for the disabled. And this, Minister, will be a test, a very simple test. I hope that this amendment will be accepted because it is obvious that it will also be adopted by the Sejm and the government will simply support it, because you yourself said that there is no danger here, so there should be no problem. Therefore, we would like to make an expression of this. I'm talking about the coalition club. We do not like the way in which this law is carried out, nor the circumvention of the expenditure rule, which is very important and has been very helpful in stabilizing the finances over the last few years. And that is why in the vote on the whole of the bill we will abstain, not disturbing its adoption, but at the same time making it clear that this is not the way to proceed with the legislative process. I'm putting an amendment into the hands of your marshal. Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u71	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Richard Majer.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u72	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A few words to remind you of what happened at the Family, Senior and Social Policy Committee meeting. Mr President, in this case the rapporteur, Mr Libicki, said that the committee had not reached a final decision on the support of any form. We therefore did not submit any minority request because the proposal for a law without amendments is still in the legal system. I want to make you feel like one thing. Social policy should be characterised by flexibility, rationality, but also by the ability to allocate funds. In your deliberations on this legal document, on a law that builds legal order, you also remember that a group of people with disabilities in our country is not a homogeneous group, that is a very diverse group. We must not forget that there are also people with disabilities who have reached retirement age. Dear people, if we look at the numbers, we will see that we have in our country about 4 million people with disabilities with a judgment. But there is, my dear country, a concept such as a biological disability. And in many cases, older people who are retired do not seek a disability ruling because they feel that they do not need it. And they're disabled. And to say, ladies and gentlemen, that the allocation of funds, through which, among other things, will take place the payment of the 13th pension, will not serve disabled people, is not entirely true. Because if someone who is 75 years old, 80 years old or older with age, which shows statistics, disability gets worse And it doesn't necessarily have to benefit from a disability ruling, it doesn't go to the office, it doesn't go to the PCPR, it doesn't have to go to other institutions... This person who is being transferred to him under the Social Insurance Fund can also use it for rehabilitation. Isn't this help and support for people with disabilities? There it is. Ladies and gentlemen, this is often a group you do not remember, which you forget. Often older people are locked in four walls of their home, do not go outside, do not show up, we do not see them, but they are. Dear Sir, there is a large group of people with disabilities in a 9 million-dollar population who will be able to benefit from these measures. In his questions to the Minister, there have been allegations that the Government of Law and Justice does not care enough about people with disabilities in our country. In my opinion, these are highly misplaced charges. Dear people, as we will look at the scale of the expenditure that has been incurred over the last 4 years to support people with disabilities, we will see that in 2015 we started at 14,15 billion and reach 27 billion in 2020. Are we making progress? We do. You can't miss it, ladies and gentlemen. The truth and respect for the truth have always reigned in this Chamber, and I therefore encourage you to reflect very deeply in spite of different personal views. Everyone can have their own view of the case, but with facts, you don't argue with numbers. We have introduced the Solidarity Fund, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to remind you that on this side of the room there were no supporters of the Solidarity Fund. There was even a build-up tension that the wealthiest are supposed to finance people with disabilities, that it is unnecessary that it is negative. We did it. We have, Dear Sirs, additional funding for care centers, assistance services, for all that is allocated to disabled people. The Solidarity Fund is, will be, and at all times the Government of Law and Justice ensures that people with disabilities are better able to live in our country. And this law, this legal regulation, is also meant to serve this purpose, which I ask you very much to consider. Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u73	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Arthur Dunin.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u74	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister, I'll turn to you first. You're lying to reality. That's first of all. The Fund for Disabled Persons was closing and soaping the eyes of people who came to protest on behalf of people who were unable to protest, to go out into the street. That's when you decided to get them out of the Sejm, and that's what the fund was talking about. Today, this ministry bill, not the parliament, there were these voices... Just so that it does not pass social assessments, it was a bill made by Members. Today you clearly bear witness to the fact that you are not interested in people with disabilities. You're doing everything you can to get the Prime Minister to say that there's going to be a balanced budget... That's what you want to keep up with, but you're not gonna make it. Today, it will be the Senate who will stand by to ensure that people with disabilities can live a decent life. I am proud that the finance committee has declared that the bill has been rejected in its entirety. But I also understand Senator Borowski's statement. Mr. Senator, yes, this amendment will signal whether the ministry or the government, which is supposed to care for everyone, will actually want to take care of people with disabilities. You guys just roll the budget. God forbid... don't screw people with disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u75	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Mark Plura.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u76	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very pleased that we can discuss this very important topic in the Senate at 1 a.m. at noon, not at 1 a.m., as it happened only recently in the Seym. Perhaps that's why this serious debate at a time of favorable reflection, but also to maintain the logic of the speech... maybe that's why it was lacking in the Sejm. However, there are arguments here today that may have touched the conscience of the Sejm majority, which has prepared a project that we are leaning on today. I am also very happy, especially to say this to my fellow clubmates, with this great activity on the subject, with great knowledge and presence, especially now, because this presence shows that we want to represent those who often have no way of even telling about their situation. I was hoping to ask the Minister that we would learn more about this situation here, about the situation of those in need of assistance, the situation of parents and loved ones who need rest and many other situations. I was hoping to get some solid knowledge, but the Minister didn't say 'Cause I don't think he knows. How big these needs are. We have learned that pilots meet the needs for reports that have been received, but this does not indicate what reality is. We have also learned from the Minister that local authorities should support precisely those objectives for which the Solidarity Fund is intended in principle. But it's support. And that's the reality. It's relatively small. It cannot be different because local governments have to cope with the rise in energy prices, so that we do not walk in dark streets, with a fall in revenue after tax changes, with an increase in costs after education reform, with an increase in the cost of public institutions, because the lowest wages are rising. And in a situation where self-government is unable to cope with the tasks that largely belong to it, this fund, which we are talking about, has even greater and deeper meaning, more meaning. The situation in which he was raised was repeated: a dramatic 40-day protest of people with disabilities and carers, a protest in the Sejm, a protest which we have all seen in the country, but which was also visible throughout the European Union. At that time, as vice-president of the Parliamentary Group on Disabilities in the European Parliament, I was asked to hold an information meeting because this news, which, for example, reached the European Disabilities Forum, was accepted with disbelief. However, eyewitness accounts confirmed these worst fears that in such an extraordinary way people with disabilities in Poland claim such ordinary support, the most basic benefit. This fund and the good programs that have been written in it What I stress, though politically I do not support the government that this fund has drawn up They should be implemented to a much wider extent than planned. We hear here and we've heard about it many times. That funds are growing to support people with disabilities in Poland. That's normal. Salaries are also rising, pensions are rising, and inflation is rising, though fortunately slow. It's all normal, that's the way it's supposed to be. But we shouldn't miss it... or we shouldn't lose sight of what's most basic and closest to life. I will say once again: assistant, family support through respite care, opening the possibility of going beyond this closed circle of 4 walls, the nearest surroundings. And finally, the question that hasn't come up and will probably remain unanswered, like many others. We hear all this change is supposed to give some guarantees. on support for older people and pensioners. Thirteen pensions. I have not heard any opinion of this environment on this subject. Perhaps those to whom this change is addressed are not thrilled by the fact that their 13th pension will take away so many of the weakest fellow citizens a chance at even a little more worthy life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u77	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator John Filip Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! I think we need to get back to history in this debate first. It's already raining here in this room. The way this fund was born, today called the Solidarity Fund, and before that... I mean, really still all the time, because we are debating this name, it is the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities. Well, the story is, when it lasted, as Senator Plura said, the 40-day strike of people with disabilities and their guardians, to those who were on strike after many days, Mr Morawiecki arrived there. He seemed a little confused, surprised, etc. As a result of this meeting, the Solidarity Fund, which was to support people with disabilities, came up with a proposal for solidarity tribute. At this meeting and during the discussions on this fund, the environment and those strikers were very clear about what these funds would have been intended for, what they wanted. It was personal assistance, assisted employment, rest-care, etc., etc. To be honest, I was one of those people who... Well, when the government proposed it, I thought, first of all, that it was such a rescue on the rapid problem of the image of Prime Minister Morawiecki. And as we're debating this today, it looks like I was a little bit right, because the fund in this original shape didn't last long, didn't function. But I also had the second warning I was talking about. I think, for example. The mechanism under which the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities is financed, at least this largest component, is more logical. You hire, you don't pay, and you get the support of a person with disabilities, you don't hire, you pay. I thought that this is the combination: because you make a lot of money, you have to throw yourself at people with disabilities, just because you earn more than PLN 1 million a year and only because you are in such a financial situation can cause... Well, it'll be a certain antagonization of the groups. Besides, there were environmental voices. But it's okay. The fund appeared, passed, was passed. The expectations of the environment as to what areas would be supported by these measures have been, so to speak, very clearly defined and clarified. Now we are in a situation where there is indeed a lack of guarantees as to whether the means of solidarity will actually be directed towards what Prime Minister Morawiecki has agreed with those who are on strike. Because it was a deal, Prime Minister Morawiecki made a deal, and today there are doubts that this agreement is not being broken. Those we invited to the committee meeting talked about this, e.g. Dr. Zima-Parijasevska talked about the fact that there is a breach of the environmental agreement in this case. Of course, it is not that it is appropriate that you can take funds from the Demographic Reserve Fund or from other funds for the thirteenth pension. I'm already skipping the whole accounting procedure, that it's done through the Solidarity Fund. Okay, I want the government to do it, so from my point of view, you want to do it, but there's a need for an absolutely unambiguous recording. on the fact that these solidarity contributions will not be spent on the thirteenth pension. If the Demographic Reserve Fund, the Labour Fund, are going to do this, then go ahead, but not the solidarity tribute, because that would be the breach of the contract. The question arises, however, whether it is not a certain abuse, that this fund is financed so-called. Supplementary benefit, i.e. so-called. 500+ for people with disabilities. How is it that 500+ for families is paid simply from the budget and the supplementary benefit is to be paid from this fund, on some other basis? That's one thing. And the second thing we talked about in our previous term of office. In the case of 500+ or thirteenth pension, there are no thresholds. It's not like if you get public funding at this rate, it's a benefit. You don't deserve it. No, I get everyone. And here, in the case of persons with disabilities, these thresholds appear. And now for the amendments, I want to be very clear... Oh, no, one more thing. Before we move on to the amendments, I would like to declare one thing very strongly. Yes, I agree with Senator Majer and Minister Swede that a profound reform of the disability system is needed. I will remind you that Prime Minister Szydło has set up a team on this matter, this team has been working for two years. Minister Swed says there are some fruits of this team's work. If so, we would like to see them, we would like to know what we have after 2 years of this team's work, what project came out of it, if it's something we can discuss. Honestly, I doubt it very much, because I met one of the members of this team who told me: if I knew it was such a serious job, then I wouldn't agree to join this team. But I think that it is also because of the fact that older people are really people with disabilities, and they are out of the system, because it is rare for older people to decide to declare their disability that it is worth to build a system that will also recognise people with biological disabilities as people with disabilities. I can declare here, at least for my part, that if you wish to undertake such work over divisions, I would be happy to join in this work, because I think that we should settle this matter. And last but not least, the issue of amendments. I took the liberty of... Maybe. First of all, at the committee meeting, I tabled an amendment which contained three things: firstly, it brought back the current situation; secondly, it set out in the fund's financial plan a certain percentage of this amount for specific tasks, i.e. 20% for assistive services, 5% for rest; thirdly, it said that if there were any funds left in the fund, they would move to the following year. It was an amendment, in my opinion, much more complete and much more in line with the expectations of people with disabilities, which include. That's the kind of division they wanted. But I understand that reporting... We had some consultation with Marshal Borowski and Marshal Borowski aptly pointed out that reporting such extensive amendments could result in this main idea, which is that solidarity in this new fund actually goes to support people with disabilities... it may complicate the achievement of this final, expected effect. Therefore, I will allow myself to have this amendment that works under the number in the table of proposals. 2, withdraw, leaving your signature under the amendment tabled by Marshal Borowski. That's one thing. And line two. We have also come to an agreement together that it is not so that we leave details of these expenses, but that in the form of a separate senate bill guaranteeing the votes of colleagues from the Civic Coalition... that we will be able to prepare this separate project at the beginning of the year, in which everything that is in this amendment that I withdraw today will be included. And then we're going to try to make it happen that all these expectations are really going to be met. I just want to say one more thing. In addition to the proposal to withdraw this amendment, which I am making here in writing, there is also this issue: the Legislative Office, so to speak, has asked me to refine a certain provision in the form of an additional amendment. This is a purely legislative undertaking. This amendment states: the amendments introduced by the Act of 31 July 2019 on supplementary benefits for persons unable to self-exist also make it possible to finance the costs of health benefits related to the issuing of decisions for persons unable to self-exist and, consequently, to amend the provisions in question accordingly. And this legislative amendment I allow myself to submit to the marshal, along with my motion to withdraw my amendment, which is in point 2 in the committee's conclusions. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u79	Thank you, Senator. And now I'm gonna ask Senator Jack Bury to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u80	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The way this fund was created has already been said several times here today, and my previous speakers have spoken about it. I would just like to quote the words on which this fund was founded, the words of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. They said: "We will propose a solidarity tribute in the near future, so that the best earners can be taxed to a small extent in order to contribute to those most in need. This will create a fund to support people with disabilities. And the second quote: "Today we would like to propose that these people who are most affected by fate should be additionally supported. A solid and just state is one that is a community. It must also be that the strongest support those who are most in need, the weakest. The Prime Minister is not here with us today, there are few Senators from Law and Justice, but I would like to ask the question: what did these people do, what did they do to you that you wanted to punish them so badly? Perhaps the point is that they do not always support the Law and Justice. Or maybe it's such a very cynical procedure, a ruthless search for finance to fulfill the electoral promises that Law and Justice have made. I am referring to the thirteenth pension. I know these are hard questions, and there's a lot of questions, but, frankly, I can't think how you can fool people like that. It really does not belong to parliamentarians, it does not belong to a party, especially one that claims to be a party in favor of these weaker ones, as the Prime Minister said. The proposed project, in addition to the evident withdrawal of support for the most deprived, is also a project that is badly prepared in legislative terms. It contains a number of errors, causes doubts, which in its analyses and opinions the Legislative Office speaks about. And it's a project that no organizations support except one organization Aside from the PiS party. If you really want to help pensioners, you should lean on a proposal that has already been discussed in Parliament, i.e. on the proposal for a pension exemption. This will be the real support of those who receive retirement, and it will be guaranteed permanently, it will not be discretionary. What I really don't like about this bill is discretion. Once again, Law and Justice creates discretionary law. If we like it so much, we'll give you a 13th pension if we don't, we won't. If you back us up, you'll get it if you don't, no. The question is, if you run out of money, the Law and Justice will come after others as well. I'd encourage you to look for money somewhere else, not the weakest ones. You can reduce subsidies for public television, which is only a propaganda tube, you can reduce subsidies for Father Rydzyk and support those who really need this money. This project is a disgrace to me and looting the hope of people with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u81	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u82	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ensuring the sustainability of funding for people with disabilities from the Fund are merely statements by politicians. And I think that this amendment, which Mr. Marshal Borowski and Mr. Senator Libicki make, will be such a litmus paper: I'm talking about the government majority in the Sejm. To express the credibility of this amendment. I'm actually a little surprised. I'm sorry. A colleague of Philip's and Mark's that they don't believe in the government. Well, the government has often said that it is very good that it respects you, loves you, likes you. That's why I'm a little surprised, but good, if it's gonna calm the environment, so be it. But I'm going back to the construction of this and thinking. The Minister answered my question about how the trial would be going on, and he said that it would be like this: there is a political declaration that we are giving the thirteenth salary, because we have money for it, there is a good state of the budget... Well, when we open any publicists, it turns out we're in great financial condition... It's an Olympic one. ...in fact, the Olympics. But when it comes to what, where do you get to? Well, no more danin increases can be done, because just like it was calculated, I read it recently. More than 30 different types of danin, as the studies show, have raised you in your previous term of office, so it is no longer appropriate to do so. Well, for the record, you've also lowered a few, that's also the fact that's happening. So where do we go? The Demographic Reserve Fund. After all, why worry now that it's only a matter of a dozen years from now that it's gonna be necessary. Then why bother now? We know we won't be in power in a few years, let others worry. It's a good old-fashioned law and justice strategy: we're worried about having power, and what's going to happen to the financials is a secondary matter. I also want to say that as I went through all the records on the Demographic Reserve Fund, Minister... Well, it says here: the funds from the Demographic Reserve Fund can be paid in the event of demographic problems and they go to the FUS. I take it that's not the case. Well, it's a great economic situation, and that's why there's no such situation. Secondly, the Fund may grant an interest-free loan to the Social Insurance Fund. And these are the 2 pillars. Well, in different situations it can be used. Suppose there's a crisis situation, you have to help Social Insurance Fund, you can do it with the Demographic Reserve Fund. And here comes the third task: to help the Solidarity Fund. And why the Solidarity Fund? Well, it's a simple method of yours: if you can't do something normally, you have to do it around. What do you mean, around? Well, I mean, to tear it out as a rule of spending. Why should we have worse indicators? Why would there be a comment that we're breaking the spending rule bill? Well, you don't break it because you're putting it outside the spending rule. But we will put forward a project, as Mr Marek Borowski said, so that you can vote that all state finances, including the Solidarity Fund, are subject to the expenditure rule. And now, ladies and gentlemen, there's this construction that the Minister was talking about: the Demographic Reserve Fund will lend money to the Solidarity Fund, and when the good times come, the Fund will give it back. And you know what he's gonna give back? Instead of 45 billion budget subsidies, you'll have to make 60 or 70 billion, but that won't apply to you anymore. Come on, guys. I am now looking into the eyes of my former chairman, and I cannot say that, not to say what you said to the President, as Mr Rostowski was speaking here: God, what creative accounting! Mr. Senator, Minister Rostowski is so small at all with what you're doing here. After all, he did things very small, and this is a really great thing. And now, you see, you have to pay... Oh, I'm sorry, what I'm saying, not pay off, just finance the 13th pension paid. So, did you pay for them or are you just looking for a way to pay? Well, turns out you're looking. And now how does that have to be done? It'll be paid by the Social Security Department, I understand, by money from the FUS. But now, for that money to get somewhere, what do we have to do? Take them out of the demographic reserve to the Solidarity Fund and fund the 13th pension directly or indirectly from there. You should have said in the campaign that you were going to use the money you put aside for the years to come and that the money you paid would be, once you won, taken from the demographic reserve. But you said you knew how to do it. Here a voice sounded like that. I will show the headings from which such projects should be financed by the Budget Act. I just want to say that little things like this... During your term of office, you have appointed around 20 central institutions with your decisions. There are estimates of how much they cost. That's one thing. Secondly, look at the expenses of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It's almost 80%. Growth in 4 years. Yeah, great. And so on, and so on... And I'll show you the moment we talk about the budget. Well, I'd like to say once again that such an interesting maneuver in which we eat the money that is meant to serve future generations... That's one thing. Secondly, you're skipping the law, obviously taking money outside the spending rule, and what's best, you're saying you're gonna give it away from the Social Insurance Fund. Only that the next sentence states that the Social Insurance Fund must receive this money from the budget. And that will be the finale of your declarations concerning this fund. I myself will strongly support this amendment because of what Mr Libicki and Marshal Borowski were talking about here. It will be such a test for the state, a test of whether you want to guarantee the stability of financing the tasks that are enshrined in the Solidarity Fund for Disabled Persons Act. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u83	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Adam Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u84	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have heard here in the speech of the representative of the Law and Justice the criticism of the opposition for having had concerns, we had a distance to the idea of setting up the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities. But today, on the occasion of this bill, our concerns have been confirmed. Life has shown that your goals, your ideas are very often a hoax, it's very often a lie, it's very often an offer that goes beyond, possibly, increasing danin and keeping creative accounting. It is a pity that we need to talk about such rights of law and justice in relation to such sensitive but important issues as supporting pensioners, because we do not question the thirteenth pension. Most people who take such measures after they have ceased their professional activities have difficulties in maintaining themselves on the day-to-day basis, and therefore such assistance seems justified. It is particularly difficult to talk about your legislative practice when, in the context of the problem of people with disabilities, absolutely requiring support not only financially but, above all, financially. Unfortunately, in the case of this law, all the bad features of the functioning of the Law and Justice have emerged on a daily basis, especially in the legislative process. Good legislative practice is probably not even theoretical for you anymore. It doesn't exist. It does not exist and on the basis of this law it can be shown in an absolutely simple way that it does. I have already mentioned that there has been no public consultation. And that, my God, with whom? Who was left out here? Well, those are the disabled or the retired, the pensioners. The absence of the required constitution and principles laid down by the Constitutional Tribunal vacathio legis, circumvention of the expenditure rule, as has already been mentioned. And something that is reprehensible and that we have been observing for 4 years in Poland, i.e. avoiding the principle of legislative initiative, lying in the face of lies, laying on the table a law that was written by officials and politicians, employees of ministries, and presenting it as a parliamentary law It's unbelievable. I think that the request, which came here, for a written reply to the question of whether the staff of the Ministry were working on this law, should, in my opinion, be a permanent question and demand. I mean waiting for a written answer to such questions in the case of any law which is falsely presented here as a parliamentary law. Another issue is the one that concerns creative accounting. There's no question of who, where, and when he's gonna pay back that huge amount of money. The spending rule was mentioned, but there are more questions immediately, because when we say that you are able to change the rules overnight or try to change the rules on the newly established Solidarity Fund institution, because you have run out of money to deliver the electoral promises, because you have run out of money to build your electoral capital for the next election, this time, I understand, presidential, when we know that there is no money, billions, for the activities of local authorities, there is no money for education, for schools and teachers, when we know that money is missing These are billions, 14 billion zlotys, estimates say even 17 billion zlotys for hospitals... You can exchange and exchange like that. There's hundreds of millions and billions of dollars missing everywhere. On the other hand, you say that you are building and creating a balanced budget. It's all bullshit, it's a lie again, as it is said colloquially, in the living eyes. How can we be sure that in the case of other funds and budgets and spending rules, you will not be doing the same financial manipulation to save your image and public finances? As far as the support of people with disabilities is concerned, in my opinion, no one in this Chamber has any doubts that it must be. Support for pensioners • No one has any doubt that it has to be. But it must be in accordance with the rules, it must be in accordance with the law, it must be in accordance with the Polish constitution and, above all, it must be respectful to citizens. State under this law That's not surprising, because you do it almost every day. You show disrespect for citizens in Poland. I'm sorry that you didn't. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u85	Thank you very much, senator. Before I ask the floor of Senator Bierecki, allow me to address a few words to you in connection with the fact that I am now starting my work as Vice-Marshal of the Senate. I would like to thank the High House very warmly for trusting me. I've been met with great honor. By the force of this very important moment for me, when I begin this mission, my thoughts revolve around those to whom I owe it, i.e. mostly around my constituents, the states of senators, as well as the people I met on my way of life, who helped me very much and who helped me where I am. I am thinking of Marshal Wiesław Chrzanowski, Marshal of the first Polish Free Sejm. I'm thinking sleep. Lech Kaczyński, President of the Republic of Poland, whom I had the honour to serve, and Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz, whom I also owe a great deal to. I would like to say to you that in my job as Vice-Marshal of this House, I will do everything to be impartial and respect every vote in this House, knowing that every vote in this House comes from our own, also different, citizens of the same Clearest Republic. Thank you very much. I'm sorry for the introduction, but please understand this is a special moment for me. [[Let's hear it.]] I ask Senator Bierecki to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Good luck with your duties. I was afraid it would be a longer exposé, but we fit in normal. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have been called several times by my previous speakers, I feel obliged to speak and say a few words on the issues raised during this debate. My colleague, Senator Czarnobaj, a colleague from the committee, wanted to draw attention to the creativity of accounting solutions, the budgetary solutions applied in the context of the Solidarity Fund Act. I believe Senator Borowski expressed a similar opinion. I would like to say that we should actually remember that when two do the same thing, it's not always the same. This is a very important statement to understand how to construct public finances. After all, the overarching objective is to balance our budget. This is the expected state, an important state, whose achievement will bring concrete benefits resulting from the assessment of the state of the Polish economy and the Polish budget. This assessment often results directly from a simple, clear presentation of the data. Information that Poland is a country that has a balanced budget is very important not only for the image of our country, but also for the assessment of our country by financial markets. This assessment translates into the cost of financing public debt. This is a very important goal and I would appeal to your senators to do so with understanding and not attack them because your unlike prime minister declares this goal and, moreover, achieves this goal. That's one thing. Of course, an alternative to the solutions proposed in this law would be a simple increase in the deficit. I do not expect this, and I understand that none of my previous speakers, who criticized these solutions, would like to be the author of calls to increase the deficit. And so, as I understand, only because of the error, or rather the lack of association of these stories, these two things, appear in this room, to which I was referring. My colleague, Senator Czarnobaj, talked about me criticizing Minister Rostowski. Yeah, that's right. I've done it many times. I remember appealing first and foremost to seal the tax system, even remember when I said it to him. I said, "Shut the holes, you won't have to refill." That's when he came to raise the budget deficit. These holes have been plugged by this government or they're plugged in. We can see the effects. We are pursuing a balanced budget, a balance of public finances. And this is certainly the thing that makes it impossible to compare this government's actions with those carried out by Minister Rostowski in the government of PO-PSL. Minister Rostowski, let me remind you, 160 billion with OFE took a light hand to plug the hole, deficit. And soon that money was eaten. Senator Czarnobaj... It is also important to correct, because the information is false, about growth, a sharp increase in the expenses of the Prime Minister's firm, and without understanding the reasons it sounds really bad. It must be borne in mind that the Prime Minister's firm has taken over a large part of the duties of the liquidated Treasury Ministry, which is why we are dealing with a transfer of funds between individuals within this budget. Finally, I would like to say that it is really those senators who participated... whether they have been companies of the PO-PSL government for 8 years, that they should refrain from criticising this solution, because during that time they have not offered people with disabilities such a solution that would meet their expectations or implement the 2012 Polish Convention. We are now introducing tools to which Poland has committed in the 2012 Convention. We bring it in late, it's true, we bring it in late, but we bring it in. There's a plan. There are proposals. If you have any ideas to correct this or to make another good proposal, we'd be happy to listen. At the moment, as I understand it, it is appropriate to vote, as Senator Borowski said, in favour of this bill. With the corrections. So so much, ladies and gentlemen, my reference to these voices in the discussion, including those that spoke to me personally. Finally, when you accuse us of creative accounting, be careful because the question can always arise: and who says it? Look who's talking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u87	Thank you very much, Senator. Now I'm going to ask Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u88	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, senators! I am listening to this discussion and I am extremely sad, as the new person who sits in the upper chamber, because this concerns two very serious problems, namely the question of people with disabilities and pensioners whose salaries are too low to live a decent life. And, ladies and gentlemen, well, anyone who participated Whether in the local government or anywhere in the budget building, he knows that the budget is not made of rubber. And since it's as good as my previous speaker said, I want to ask you why the people concerned have so much concern about the records that are included in this bill. I don't get it. We talk for 2 hours about how to get money to give it to people with disabilities. And we want to take it out of a fund that... I mean, where do you get the money to give you the 13th pension, so you're gonna fulfill your election promise? And we want to take away those who have won them by protest in the Sejm, those guaranteed funds from the Solidarity Fund. And, ladies and gentlemen, the more complicated all of this is, the more access to all of this... so as not to fulfill those promises. I think that legislation and law should be simple enough to make it clear in the budget to those affected by the problem... As we proceed with the procession... Of course, if you want to teach me something about proceding this point, I'll be happy to accept it. Nevertheless, I think in the vote we will express our attitude towards what has been included both in the amendment and in the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u89	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Alicia Chybick.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u90	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is a little sad that money is being transferred, which belongs to the most disadvantaged social group, such as people with disabilities. The law itself, the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities, was very good. It is sad that, in order to meet the electoral promises, these funds will be transferred to the second group. It's supposed to be borrowed, but the question is whether this loan will be repaid. And besides, the needs of people with disabilities are so huge that you can't move funds towards a group that... These people also need money and the 13th, or maybe the 14th pension should definitely be on their accounts, but why should they have funds for people with disabilities? How could this kind of electoral promise be made without covering it completely? I don't really get it. I know that we will vote on each of the ladies and senators sitting here. But the Senate legislators express themselves not only about this pull, but also about the way in which they process in a negative way. And I don't think you should take it away from one needy person just to spill it to the other needy. There are no doubt sources from which this money could have been pre-planned 'Cause they weren't in the original budget we had in the Seym at all, ladies and gentlemen. This new budget is not yet available because the promises that have been made have exceeded what was previously planned. And to be honest, it is sad and frightening that something like this is happening in the Polish Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u91	Thank you very much, Senator. Then you will speak to Senator Wojciech Necessary. I would like to express my hope that you, Senator, are not a superstitious person, because you are the 13th speaker in the discussion on this point.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u92	I'm not. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm a debutante. In the Senate and going to the Senate, I had some concerns that I would vote on difficult matters, on such Gordian nodes, which we do not know how to solve, because indeed situations are sometimes such that we choose smaller evils and it is difficult to find good solutions. Well, that's what happens. Today, however, there is a slightly different situation. What is the basis of this vote today? Well, fulfilling the electoral promises. This is something that is the main driving force of what we're discussing today. And I would like to appeal to the Senators of Law and Justice: the electoral promises are certainly very important and we all know that, but not at all costs. There have been many speeches in the Seym or the Senate... I'm referring to the story of the fact that we don't know the concept of peace at all costs, etc. Nor is it that electoral promises must be fulfilled at all costs. Not at the cost of resources allocated to people with disabilities. But this is an abuse, and we're going too far. Where do you get the money? How can we do this? You're the majority, you've got the government, you can do it in different ways, not necessarily by taking money hard-to-win and belonging to people who really need it very much. Firstly, the words about the implementation of programmes for people with disabilities are not quite true, and secondly, we do not meet these needs as we should. Just because it's barely enough for something that's today doesn't mean it's okay, and we can't take advantage of the fact that there's some money. Ladies and gentlemen, I will vote very simply. I'm gonna watch, and you're sitting next to me, Senator Marek Plura, and I'm gonna vote like him, because he knows very well what the situation is. And here you should not specially divide the hair into fours. But I also call on you to think. There were words here that the deficit could not be increased. For decades there was a deficit in Poland, various things were financed from this deficit. You can look for savings in various sectors of the economy, and you really don't have to do this electoral promise at the expense of people with disabilities. I'm still appealing for thought, because you can really lead It's different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u93	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Marek Borowski signed up for the floor. I regret to say that this time, Mr. Senator, we will only be able to listen to you for five minutes, for this second speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u94	I wasn't surprised by the marshal. As usual, I listened attentively to Senator Bierecki's speech, but I must say, Senator, it was one of the weaker speeches you made. What exactly did you say? You said that if you want to have a balanced budget, if you don't want to have a deficit, we can avoid different rules, we can really violate the law. Well, that's not something he's agreed to. I'm the last one against a balanced budget. My education, my past, etc. they indicate that I have always dreamed that the Polish budget should be balanced. But how do you do it? If this is done precisely in breach of a rule that is not questioned, if it is done in such a way that the necessary expenditure on health, education and public services is limited, then it is very easy to achieve a balanced budget. So it's as if this success is a mess. It's not the success it was really about. As for the current measures and this year, it is not that these expenditures would increase the deficit, because the expenditure rule did not allow and still does not allow the increase in expenditure this year. Here the only solution would be to reduce other expenses, but of course the government could not afford it. However, it turned out that something was wrong, something was missing. Because since it was paid out in May... How much? 10 or 11 billion zlotys. And that's why it suddenly turned out that these amounts didn't fit in the expenses that were acceptable according to the expenditure rules. Finally, the issue of open pension funds. You brought up the subject of the 160 billion being shifted... Well, you didn't use the word shifted, you just said they were taken away. Other people say "stolen," etc. But they have been credited to citizens' accounts in the Social Insurance Fund and they will not be taken away from citizens, no tax has been deducted from them, they can also be inherited. In turn, what is currently being proposed and what we will be dealing with soon, namely the elimination of the remaining funds By the way, I'm going to add that there's about the same amount here. It will end, as we know, by the fact that if a citizen decides to transfer these funds to individual pension accounts, he will pay 15% in favour of the budget, so to those needs that the government has and wants to finance, and if it does not decide and wants these funds to be in the Social Security Office, then they will not be inherited. So I must say that these actions which were taken in the previous term by Minister Rostowski were fair to the citizens, to future pensioners, and now it is proposed to do so, which in fact means reducing their resources. And then there's the end of it. This is a permanent point of discussion between us, our polemics. You, Mr. Senator, refer back to that time, completely disregarding the economic environment in which the government came to work. Anyone who would have been, to one or another, in the years 2009 and 2013, 2014. And that was the environment of the economic crisis. This was not a situation where you could give away money, give 13 pensions, give 500+, etc., etc. Although some pulls were still in place, social action was then carried out. So, because Senator Majer was here talking about the fact that he was in this House. As I understand it, a little in contrast to another House, we should stick to the truth, I call on the senator to stand up in this truth. Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u95	Thank you, Senator. Senator Bierecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u96	In corrigendum mode. I would just like to point out that the senator in the early part of his speech attributed my words to words that didn't fall. It's easy to check in the transcript. So I'm hoping that this was entirely because of your subjective impression that maybe that's how you understood it. Nevertheless, such words have not been uttered. And I'm asking you to correct this.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u97	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, I also inform you that Senator Komarnicki made his speech in the discussion on the protocol. I would also like to inform you that the proposals of a legislative nature were submitted in writing by Senators Marek Borowski and Jan Filip Libicki. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? No. As a legislative proposal has been made, I ask the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I'm declaring a 15-minute recess. After the interruption, it is very important that we consider item three of the agenda, and a vote will be held during this item, which will decide whether to extend the agenda. I therefore ask all senators to be present in the Chamber. I'm calling a break: 15 minutes. [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 00 to 14 minutes 17 minutes.]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the excise duty Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 14 and the committee's report in print No 14 A. I would like to remind you that the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance has recognised the need for legislative changes that go beyond the matter of the law. On the basis of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 of the Senate Rules of Procedure presented a proposal for a legislative initiative. This proposal, together with the draft law, is contained in print No 16 and the impact assessment for this project is provided in print: for print No 16. I would remind you that the proposal for a legislative initiative is presented by the rapporteur together with the committee's report on the bill under consideration. After hearing the request, the Senate shall decide in the vote on the accession to the second reading of the bill. If the request is accepted, the second reading shall be held at the same meeting as a separate item on the agenda. Failure to adopt a resolution on the accession to the second reading means that the draft is referred to the procedure set out in Section IX of the Senate Rules of Procedure. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, to take the floor and to present the report of the committee on the bill under consideration and the request of the committee to take a legislative initiative on the draft law amending the law amending the excise duty Act and the Customs Law. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u98	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With regard to what you said to the Marshal about working on the amendment of the excise duty law, I will explain that my report will consist of two parts. The first part will be to discuss these amendments and the proposals we have made by discussing the law that has entered the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, which is the report in print 14 A. We propose that the High House adopt this law and at the same time accept the 3 amendments prepared by the committee. In addition, my report is accompanied by a minority request, which will be the subject of a separate report. High Izbo, when we were working on this bill, we proposed changes that would lead to this... We propose that the increase in excise duty in the next year should not be as high as the Sejm proposes, i.e. by 10% compared to the current rates. This increase should not be higher than 3%. So we propose that the increase in excise duty for the next year be an increase of 3%. Why are we making such a proposal, we are proposing this to the High House? We at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance have invited many social partners, entrepreneurs, business organisations, all those affected by this business tax, I am not talking about consumers, although ultimately every tax, including excise duty, concerns consumers directly. We invited representatives of companies who are obliged to pay this tax, i.e. distributors, traders producing alcohol, alcoholic beverages producing cigarettes, products which have the character of cigarette products, so-called. e-cigarettes. It was a huge number of people, the whole room, because the interest was really huge. Why was there so much interest in this discussion? It is well known that no one likes the rise in taxes, but this interest was due to this particular situation, because the government throughout this year, and especially in the autumn, talking, discussing with the industry, proposed, said that the increase in this tax would be an increase of 3%. The social partners, of course, were reluctant to accept this increase by 3%, preparing their companies, distributors, computer programs related to sales, etc., software for this project to increase excise duty by 3%. The increase in excise duty was due to take place on 1 January next year. Unfortunately, a few days before the meeting of the Sejm on which this law was to be considered, the government made a large volt, changed its position and, contrary to these arrangements, decided without informing the environment that an increase in excise duty would be an increase of 10%. So this is three times, more than three times higher than the one proposed in the social arrangements. And during our meeting, during the meeting of the budgetary committee, those social partners who were paying attention said: we are ready to pay this tax by 3%, as we agreed and as the government suggested, but 10% It's a big surprise for us. And after hearing the social side's point of view, after listening also to everything the Minister said, we made a decision, as shown in the annex to our report. It is also worth noting another aspect. The Minister of Finance, who represented the government and presented the government's position on this matter, said that the only argument for the increase in excise duty, the reason for this change and this increase is not the budgetary reason. We thought, most of the committee thought, however, that this is the main reason why excise duties are being raised. Meanwhile, the Minister of Finance and the people invited by the Minister said that the only reason for the increase in excise duty is the fight against alcohol abuse, too much alcohol consumption, the desire to reduce sales and smoking. Therefore, the finance minister was accompanied by ministers and presidents of organisations, government institutions that deal with these plagues, and this argument was put forward. If this was the only factor or the main factor, this should, of course, be discussed earlier, these arguments should be used earlier and used also for the social partners. So it seemed to me, also to most senators, members of the budget committee, that this argument is only a cover for wanting to introduce a larger amount into the budget, because the budgetary effect of this law was to have an additional impact on the budget of PLN 1 billion 700 million. And only on the second day of the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, because this meeting of the committee lasted 2 days... Only the second day of the meeting, as we discussed specific amendments, the Minister of Finance pointed out that the introduction of amendments, which the majority propose, would have less impact on the state budget. Thus, only then did this budgetary argument arise. But I would like to say that the majority of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, which voted on this amendment, pointed out that simply introducing further increases Whether it concerns electricity or alcohol, or whether it concerns other things that are the subject of general consumption Unfortunately, it's bad practice. They are also contrary to the announcements of the ruling majority. These announcements, unfortunately, have been alarming for many of our country's citizens since the next year. After all, this does not only concern excise duties on alcohol, cigarettes, but also increases in electricity prices. He is particularly severe for households, and for entrepreneurs. Well, perpetual use. For entrepreneurs o 70% increase by around 70% from the next year, in most cases For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: These are maybe little things, how much is... Ladies and gentlemen, the conclusion is that we propose that And that's the decision. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances, and this increase in rates, and this is included in our report, was the increase that was agreed, and thus the increase by 3%. And I ask the High House to accept such a proposal. However, during the work of the committee, and earlier members of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance received information that such a problem arose, it turned out that some entrepreneurs who mainly deal with the supply of fuel to aircraft, fuel to ships, fishing boats, yachts and all these devices that sail across the seas and oceans... that also excise duties for other operators who are involved in the processing of alcohol or use alcohol for various chemical products, e.g. in cosmetics, in health care, etc... The excise duty on these products is zero, it has its justification and no one wanted and does not want to change this zero rate. But all these entrepreneurs who have been trading these fuels since 1 January 2020 were supposed to use the so-called. the electronic delivery document. The lack of this electronic delivery document and the accounting on paper led to such a situation that excise duty on these products increased to the basic level, i.e. the prices of these fuels, in particular fuels, would increase in a stepwise way for these customers and this could lead to, for example. Polish aircraft or ships, ships, boats would be fueled elsewhere. We saw the case, we got it. Therefore, at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances, there was even an amendment which assumed that we could introduce into the excise tax law just a provision restoring this right. Because it was promised by the government side, promised earlier, many months earlier, to entrepreneurs that it would be possible to use this current way of documenting turnover, i.e. this non-electronic document of delivery of these fuels. But probably as a result of some oversight at the Ministry of Finance, this problem was not noticed. It wasn't seen until the work of our committee. That's where the amendment came from. Unfortunately, she had character... Because it was not as if there was a bad will in this matter, because all of us, regardless of what political environment we came from, felt that this matter had to be dealt with somehow, even though it was so late reported by the government party. In fact, it has been notified to us not by the Minister responsible for finance, but by the social partners. That's what they pointed out a few days before the committee meeting. So this amendment, which has been tabled and which here, in our report, is a minority proposal, is unfortunately unconstitutional, because we in the Senate have no right to adopt rules that interfere with these articles or even laws that were not subject to changes during the parliamentary work. This is a weakness in our procession. We would prefer to be able to make such broader changes in the laws we are working on, but this is the conclusion of several decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal, this is the practice and this is the rules and regulations of the Sejm and of the Senate. In fact, the Sejm shouldn't even consider amendments tabled by us which have this constitutional defect. Nevertheless, a minority of committees insisted on this and subsequently submitted a minority request. This minority proposal will be discussed by a minority representative. We have taken the legislative initiative, a quick initiative, which is exactly the same provision in the law. As we have said and declared, both the Minister and the social partners, we are able to carry out this whole procedure quickly enough to enable these companies to work on the principles of the past from 1 January next year. And this bill is in print no. 16, which you received. This is a short bill, basically 1 short record, which allows for these changes. In the meantime, it also needs to be clarified, because things have become much more complicated. On 12 December, a special meeting took place in the Sejm. It was already after our committee meeting, but maybe it was a coincidence. And then a group of Members submitted a draft law, which is a copy of our legislative initiative, a proposal specifically to enable this trading without electronic documents. So right now we're in a situation where in the Senate, first of all, there's this major law that we're amending, the one with these 3 amendments and the minority proposal. It's a single document. And, secondly, there is our legislative initiative, which has already taken up the right pace. And there's this third law, which is the initiative of the Sejm. We're gonna do it right now... Marshal, even though he's got a month to do it. In order not to lead to any conflicting situations and not to find any political arguments and desire to make someone angry, he immediately referred this bill, which came from the Sejm, to our committee, and we also accepted it without amendments. So, if this bill is passed by the High House, The one who arrived from the Sejm Then our legislative initiative will be unobtrusive and we will withdraw it from the High House at the right time, in accordance with the procedure. And it seems to me that we will be moving in this direction, because in this way we will be clearer on the part of entrepreneurs, one day earlier our partners, these social partners, these entrepreneurs, will know that the law has already entered into force. Well, I'd like to say that we have declared here, including Mr Marshal, that if this legislative initiative had passed as a matter of urgency, on tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, we would have been able to vote on it also in the Senate. And this initiative, as a final document, could be addressed to the President. That's not what happened. The Sejm, so to speak, has made this bill as if in special mode, and this is how we got these two documents. There's no tragedy in this, we'll get out of it, of course, but I think it's always better to communicate between the Seym and the Senate, between the committee. Ours or other, even in other situations And ministers that you can just do things straight, without any conflicts or disputes, especially when it concerns some powers of citizens or entrepreneurs. Mr. Marshal, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u99	Thank you very much, senator. I would ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to speak and to present a proposal of the minority of the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! It is my pleasure to present the motion of the minority committee. This proposal is actually one-sided with the draft law that the High Senate will consider in point four, and therefore, in agreement with the other senators of the minority application, I withdraw this proposal as unobtrusive. We will be able to resolve this issue at the next point. A few words of comment. This minority request was made by the Senators of Law and Justice in their full sense of responsibility for the state's finances, as well as for the situation of taxpayers who, as a result of an undoubted error, were at risk of paying excise duties, which was not intended, was not an intention. The correction of this error was undoubtedly necessary, and therefore the decision to submit with full awareness the request of minorities. Most of the committees at the stage when we applied for minorities were not interested in voting for such an amendment. My previous speaker, Senator Klein, has presented the course of events related to this amendment very honestly, and we are happy to withdraw it now, trusting that we will adopt such an important bill for many thousands of taxpayers at point four that all clubs will support it over politically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u101	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome. Mr. Senator Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u102	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I am already overlooking the issue which I raised when discussing the previous law, that we are also dealing with a certain legislative practice or lack of good legislative practice of the PiS. We don't have a vacathio legis or a public consultation here. I'd like to ask. I am addressing this question to a representative of the government. What the OSR looks like in the case of... Not now, Senator. Now... To the rapporteur... Let me explain. We are now addressing questions only to the Senator of the rapporteur. Okay. Good. I will ask if the Senator rapporteur is aware of the results of the impact assessment on the law. I mean the increase in the gray area in the case of an increase in excise duty by 3% and in the case of an increase of 10%. What kind of change would that be? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u103	Thank you very much, Senator. Would the senator like to answer directly after each question or collectively? Directly. Directly. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u104	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, we looked into this at the committee meeting. The problem of the shadow economy was particularly highlighted by our social partners, business organisations. They clearly said that any significant increase in tax, excise duty, must result in some level of growth in the grey zone. How big is this level? It's hard to calculate and to estimate. Previous experience was also indicated When excise duties were reduced, especially on alcohols, excise receipts, of course not immediately, not in the first year, but after 2 years have increased. And there was no radical increase in the social problems associated with alcoholism. This was due to the fact that people were simply choosing the legal source of these goods when buying alcohol or cigarettes. We are making this decision, among others. That's what they've been paying attention to. I haven't given you one piece of information yet, so maybe I could add it here. There is another important amendment in our group of amendments, i.e. postpone the date of entry into force of the Act so that there is a real vacatio legis so that entrepreneurs and everyone else can prepare for the implementation of the Act. In fact, the time of entry into force will depend on how quickly the President will sign this bill. With our proposal, the first real deadline would be 1 February 2020, so the practical date for vacathio legis would be around 1 month. But as I say, the decision will depend on it... Mr. President has time to sign the bill. We have also pointed out that we often compare ourselves in terms of excise duties to neighbouring countries. Right? We're talking vodka or stronger booze and beer. And it turns out that excise duty in our country is higher than in neighbouring countries, e.g. in the Czech Republic and Germany.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u105	Thank you very much, Senator. The next question is asked by Senator Marshal Stanisław Karczewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Chairman, I have a question for you. Did the state at the committee meeting... I have two questions, but I think I can fit in a minute. Have you analysed this in detail? We checked with the senator a while ago, because, of course, we don't buy alcohol and we don't drink... [[Joy in the gym.]] We checked. About 20 PLN costs 0.5 l or 0.7 l. I think it's 0.75 l. If the price of a bottle of alcohol, which costs on average 20 PLN, increases in excise duty by 3% and by 10% ? That's the same kind of information I'd ask for in relation to cigarettes. What's the price of cigarettes? 15 zlotys. Fifteen zlotys, I'm told. If it increases with an increase in excise duty of 3% and 10% ?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u107	Of course, we have noticed another problem, that even those who do not drink alcohol, as you say, and do not buy it, are unfortunately doomed to see these prices practically every day. And this is, so to speak, the drama of the Polish system and the law on sobriety education. Because when we go for a bun or bread, when we go into a bakery, the first thing we see is, unfortunately, a liquor stand. And that's the problem. In many places where it's sold, also in bakeries... It's a drama, and we've been paying attention. Moreover, we have even declared that we are ready to participate in the preparation of a new law on sobriety education, among other things. because the promotion of alcohol in shops in various industries should not be so pushy, even at railway stations or at the airport. When you walk through an airport to get to the gate, you have to go through huge, big liquor stands. This is a serious problem. It's a question of price. We talked about that, too. The increase resulting from the increase in excise duty would not be dramatic. That would be about 1 PLN. This increase would amount to a maximum of approx. 1 PLN and in case of beer less. So this isn't even about that. We are talking about a certain practice that worries us the most, the fact that it still affects us, all consumers, in various areas of life, the dramatic increases in various taxes and charges. Right? And that's an important thing. I'm paying attention to a little thing here. And since next year, the price increases of the various goods and services that will be provided to citizens are increasing in such a way that I say very important. And everyone, even the smallest tax, has a cumulative effect in other places. So this value of sales, value or cost of purchase of goods increases on different... Well, we touch it, we see it, and we just don't have to lie about it. And there's not even a political context in that, because it's just a problem today, these days. If today, before Christmas, we go to the store and shop, then we see how the prices of all products in turn have increased compared to what they were a few months ago or what they were in previous years. And there's tax increases, and there's all kinds of fees... Well, the effect has to be that it's harder, whether it's the consumer or the entrepreneur. No, no... Isn't that right? That's not true. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Do I have to calculate how the prices of individual products have increased? You'll figure it all out, all of it. Well, we can go to the store in a minute. Even here, to the nearest one, on rural street... To the country... No, to the rural cooperative, where are the food products... [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u108	But, gentlemen... Gentlemen of the Senators, I would ask you to keep your procedures...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u109	Oh, that's it!
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u110	...and not interrupting the rapporteur. Anyone can ask For a minute, and I encourage you to do so, but I also strongly encourage you to follow the rules and not interrupt, not to do so. A dropout from the gym. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it.]] You're welcome, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u111	I've already answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u112	Uh-huh. So now I ask you to ask Senator Jerzy Wczyła's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u113	Mr Senator, I heard that at the committee meeting it was noted that the level of excise duty in Poland is clearly higher than in neighbouring countries. It's up 240%. than in Germany, is by 50% higher than in the Czech Republic, by 28% higher than in Slovakia. Has the government presented an analysis of the effect of the increase in excise duty on the beer market in Poland? Because it may turn out that after this change production from neighbouring countries will be more competitive for Poles and will eliminate Polish beer from the Polish market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u114	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u115	Mr. Marshal High Izbo! We have been paying attention to the problem arising from a higher level of excise duty in Poland than in neighbouring countries, but the government did not actually refer to this case... Not even basically, he simply did not refer to it, because, as I say, in the Government's argument in this case, only such an argument was made that the increase in excise duty would result in a reduction in the consumption of these products. Except, of course, we said: if it is to be consumed less, why is it expected that there will be an increase in the impact on the state budget of PLN 1 billion 700 million? But at the committee meeting, it was an unresolved matter because different arguments were put forward regarding the reasons for the increase in excise duty.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u116	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator Jacek Bogucki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u117	Mr President, I would like to ask how many years there have been no increases in excise duty. And after all these years, can we call this growth dramatic, high? Are we talking about increasing excise duty on drugs or on food products? 'Cause I'm a little confused already. I'm gonna go get some buns in the morning and admit there's no alcohol in my bakery. Perhaps the chairman would give the address of a bakery where they sell alcohol. But I don't think the bakery is for that. Please come into the store... Oh, I'm sorry I'm so... I would ask that all parties to this debate comply with the rules of procedure. So the key question is: can you really call this growth dramatic, after a few years of not raising excise duty on I'll remind you. The drugs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u118	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u119	À by way of a proposal Those shops you're talking about are worth going to a grocery store on rural street, where to get to bread, you have to go through the liquor stand. But it's not a bakery... But that's another matter. We're not going back to this case. And the last raise she was, it was... We talked about it, too. I'm the only one who's... That was, like, five years ago. Nine, I think. No, no, no, probably in 2013 or 2014. It was in the days of the Civic Platform. It's just... yeah, it was a significant increase in excise duty. I just want to say to the senator once again that the problem with this increase doesn't actually even concern the fact that it was proposed by the government as so high, i.e. 10%. The problem is something else: you talk to people all the time, you talk to the social partners and they're told that the raise is going to be 3%, and then there's a drop that's 10%. And no one's talking to anyone. And that's the thing, that's the main problem. Because it's possible that consumers would be able to raise that 10% raise somehow, so to speak. It's possible there wouldn't even be a dramatic increase in the gray area. It's all about the rules, the way in which the law is made. That's what we're talking about all the time. And that you're making changes that are important. Taxes on a variety of things are usually pennies, right? And it changes by a penny, a penny, a penny... Only in economics, life is made up of pennies. This penny to penny causes such increases that there are large amounts at the end. But as I say, the most important thing is that the conversation was about a 3% increase. In this case there was agreement and government, and social partners, and entrepreneurs And there was an entirely different amount, separated from these arrangements. And that's the problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u120	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Władysław Komarnicki, another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u121	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would like to thank you for the particular justification regarding this intrusive advertising of alcohol. I must say that many women write me requests and beg for abolition in our city, in my district, at least 50% Shop like this. Question. I'm glad we're talking about this. And my question, Mr. Senator, is... I understand that you discussed at the committee meeting and the government's representative certainly justified this increase. My question is, how does this increase have to be used to fight addiction? Because that's the point we should be talking about.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u122	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u123	So, the Minister and later the heads of the institution... of the Antitrust Office... What's it called? Agency. National Agency for the Solution of Alcohol Problems. They argued it like this. Firstly, of course, an increase in excise duty may discourage some consumers from buying alcohol or cigarettes. Constant text. And secondly, there will be additional, more funding in the state budget for anti-drug programmes. It was a declaration. But what's the amount... Constant text. ...this additional funding for this purpose, which has not been presented to us, will be visible only in the budget being prepared.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u124	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Karczewski with another question. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u125	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, you have repeatedly used terms such as social partners or social organisations. Yes. Tell me: what were the social organizations? What kind of social partners were they? Were there lobbyists in the O.R.? If so, how many and what? Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u126	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, of course, this is a routine question that every committee meeting always asks: whether the lobbying staff attends the committee meeting at least I ask such a question. or represent firms or lobbying institutions in accordance with applicable law. And, of course, people who do this kind of work come forward. It's recorded in the protocol. This, of course, was also the question I asked at this meeting. The following day also related to the excise legislation. And there was no positive answer to that question. Thus, there were no persons at the meeting who would represent such entities or engage in lobbying activities. Nevertheless, there were a lot of people, well, I think about 30 people. All those people who were present and invited... This information is publicly available on the website of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. I can't name all these partners right now, but they were all invited. But the social organization... At least one social organization, one social organization... Well, it's like... Of course, at the moment I don't remember such full names, but for example. This is an abstinence society, which represents... AA. No, not AA, just an association that's working on these cases as a natural person. It is also an association of employers and entrepreneurs, Leviathan and such large institutions. And at the same time they were even representatives of specific companies there, because they also have the right to participate. So, as I say, I don't have that list of people in front of me, but in a moment, I'm gonna deliver it to the marshal, and I'm gonna ask you from the committee's office to present it. This case raised no doubt about anyone, all who were, had the right to speak. More: if anyone wanted to make a proposal for an amendment, I also asked for it to be tabled, and if someone did... Therefore, there were more than two days before the meeting on this issue and these amendments or these proposals for various amendments. But the senators didn't take most of these proposals because we felt... ♪ Some felt ♪ Maybe I'll say yes. That these were individual cases, which individual groups of entrepreneurs would like to deal with one against the other, because one wanted to be treated better. That's what we thought, so we didn't take these initiatives and we just tabled this amendment to bring back the original proposal of the government party, agreed, because maybe not directly, as I say, it was a proposal of the government side. With government representatives plus the extension of the date of entry into force of this law and no more. So that none of the other amendments or proposals from the senators or the Civic Platform or the Law and Justice have taken place, so to speak. Well, the senators, of course, have the right to make amendments today at the planning meeting, but that is another matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u127	Thank you very much. Senator Bogucki and another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u128	Mr President, would it therefore be fair to say that it is not really social organisations, but representatives of the tobacco and alcohol industries that have participated in this meeting, or at least have taken the floor and submitted proposals? Well, the senators may have the wrong impression that there were representatives of abstinence organizations, former representatives of the social side. At least I didn't hear them speak... They took it. ...maybe I missed it. That there were representatives of the social side, i.e. unions, social organizations widely understood, and not only the industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u129	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yes, you're right, Mr. Senator, they were. After all, you were at the committee meeting, so you remember that very well. They were simply representatives of the trade union and they took the floor. This is also the answer for Mr. Marshal Karczewski. There were representatives of the Solidarity, who were very keen to do so. That's what they said. In order to return to this 3-percent rate, they said that this 10% in their establishments where they have their members could lead to the fact that the owners of these companies would not be willing to raise their salaries or salaries. That was the conclusion. I think the senator will agree with me. There were also representatives of abstinence organisations and they spoke on this issue. And it was in response to the statements of the representatives of the Abstinent Organizations that I proposed, I said that we were inclined to so say, prepare, try to prepare some amendment to the Law on Sobriety Education, so that those situations that many seem bad could be covered by this new law. And this is what we were literally talking about at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. So there were those representatives who represented abstinence organizations. However, for obvious reasons, most of those who spoke at this meeting were either those who represented producers or themselves were producers or distributors of these goods. It's like a normal situation, so it's usually at committee meetings, that's how it's done. When we say social factor, social organisations, we also mean business organisations, employers, various organisations that represent even large, huge capital.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u130	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Karczewski. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u131	I didn't get any answers, Mr. Chairman... But is it true, Mr President, that as a result of a 10% increase, the price of a bottle of beer will increase by 6 gr, a bottle of wine by 15 gr, 1/3, i.e. 5 gr, as proposed by the committee, and 30% That's... Yes, the price increase for cigarettes is 1 PLN 2 gr, the price increase for cigars is 40 gr and the bottle of vodka is 1 PLN 40 gr. Is it true or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u132	Mr. Marshal, I don't remember if we were doing those calculations at the committee meeting. But I know this document, and of course it is, and I confirm it. Once again, I am talking about the fact that the main dispute concerns something quite different, that the industry was still talking about 3%, and practically the day before, so to speak, the decision was raised to 10%. That makes me say this, the unbelievable of everyone, whoever's the finance minister or prime minister, because if they agree it's gonna be 3%, it's 10%. And that's the main argument. Even the representatives of the industry said that they would be able to hold on to this raise, and they said it at the committee meeting if they had talked to them in such a spirit. They were talking the exact opposite... It's not about producers, it's about citizens, Poles... But that applies to everyone. As I say, every raise, Mr. Marshal. It's possible that if... I don't want to use some demagogic passwords here, because we know that. It's always nuisance. Even ask people about it. I don't smoke, I never even had a cigarette in my mouth, but alcohol happens. Not like your marshal, because your marshal says he doesn't drink. I sometimes have that weakness, but no abuse. [[Joy in the gym.]] This issue is important to many people. Yeah, they buy like any other stuff. There's nothing to discuss. But, as I say, that's not what the argument is about. The argument was of a different kind. And I think I've already got... Oh, I'm gonna name the representatives now, tell them who was invited and who was, so on this one... Of course, Minister of Finance, Minister of Health, Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy There were representatives here. Minister of Development, spokesperson for small and medium-sized enterprises, Chairman of the Trade Union Forum, President of the Board of the Employers' Union, Business Centre Club, Representative of the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund, even President of the Association of Entrepreneurs and Employers In general, on their behalf, someone else signed on that list. The Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, the Polish Trade Union Agreement, the Confederation of Lewiatan, the Association of Employers, the Polish Spirit Industry, the National Tobacco Industry Association, the Association of Regional Polish Brewers... Members were also invited, I do not remember if they were all. Well, the Legal Office, the Polish Union of the Blind, the deaf... Well, representatives of people with disabilities are for another meeting... So that there were these partners... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please? Yeah, I'm sorry. Of course, the Deaf Aid Society also, if here... Oh, the Polish Association of Tobacco Planters. Well, they raised the issue very strongly, because it's pretty serious about them. A, NSZZ.Solidarity, Polish Trade and Distribution Organisation, Chamber of Tax Advisors, etc. So a really big group of people.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u133	And one more question. Mr. Senator, Mr. Marshal Karczewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would like to, Mr President. 'Cause you just said there was a representative of the Ministry of Health. I'd like to hear the opinion of the Ministry of Health. Well, Ministry... What did the Ministry of Health say? Was it for or against?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u135	Well, of course, government officials were in favour of this bill, i.e. I don't remember what the Minister of Health said, but he was speaking in spirit... That's what the Ministry of Health said. Mr. Marshal, please... ♪ What I said ♪ The Ministry is committed to reducing alcohol consumption. We all care about it when we're here. I don't think anybody's... Although we've noticed something else. Yes? That the Minister of Finance's proposal... Mr. Marshal, Mr. Marshal Karczewski, I apologize because I answer your question, and you... I have a divisive attention. Because I saw you and Senator Bierecki... Oh, you have a divisibility of attention. Well, you know the marshal. Mr Marshal, we would even believe these declarations of various ministries and offices, because we always want to believe, only that, as I say, with regard to this financial effect, as it turned out the next day, the health issue was already on the second plane, but the loss to the state budget will be less than planned. The main goal, however, is what we all feel, even if you are a marshal, although I don't know, Mr. Marshal may not, but some senators... However, the main objective of this law is not to reduce consumption, but rather to ensure that more money is paid to the state budget. I think that's the main goal. And we're mostly saying that they felt that way under the skin.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u136	You're welcome. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me, Mr. Senator, but first Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. This lively discussion actually leads to nothing, because, Mr Rapporteur, the main purpose of this bill is fiscalism and raising money on the side of the PiS for unknown purposes... Although I suspect what they might be to pay off... To raises for ministers. Please? Yes, sir. Anyway, if it's not about reducing alcohol consumption, because you said we'd be working on it in some future, I'm just wondering why we're even talking about it. Let's drop this bill because it's not about us adding 3%, 10%. or any other amount of excise duty. In fact, this discussion is pointless. We should talk about whether we will produce alcohol in the form of so-called. Monkeys so everyone can hit each other in the morning before going to work and possibly before going to bed. This discussion is pointless, and the main debater is the former Marshal of the Senate. Actually, this discussion is pointless. I'd ask you to close this discussion because she's not bringing anything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u138	Senator, I will remind you that now is the time to ask questions and that each of the senators has the right to ask questions in the number he considers appropriate, I suppose. Do you want me to take the senator's motion as a formal motion to close... I'll think about it. Okay. Then the moment the senator wonders, you'll use Senator Bierecki to ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u139	Thank you very much. I'm kind of referring to the senator's statement, who thinks the target is purely fiscal... I would like the senator to briefly summarize the discussion, which was quite extensive, which was at the committee meeting and in which I participated. This discussion showed a link between the price of alcohol and the volume of consumption. There have been concrete examples of countries where alcohol is expensive due to the level of taxation, which is translated into consumption.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u140	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Senator, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr Senator, yes, indeed, a large part of the discussion was devoted to these elements of sobriety education. Right? I can confirm that. That is also what the Minister of Finance was talking about. And he said that this is the main objective of this legislative initiative, not the reason that 1 billion 700 million zlotys are going to contribute to the state budget. And during this discussion, government representatives talked about programs related to the fight against alcoholism. I will not present these programmes in detail here, because they were not presented in detail, but it was signalled that they would be. A representative of the Ministry of Health also stated that the funds are intended for medical purposes in connection with alcohol diseases or the use of cigarettes. This was all said at the committee meeting, except that it was such general declarations, because it is simply impossible to discuss, even on the occasion of excise duty, what part of the impact on the budget of this particular tax and from such an increase will be allocated to one or another specific expenditure. It is possible that in other committees, those dealing with social problems, this could be addressed. But from the perspective of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, it is a bit different to look at it. Right? What are the receipts to the state budget for this purpose, and how they are later distributed, this is the decision of the government and later of the Sejm in the budget law. What part of this 1 billion 700 million PLN would be additionally spent on fighting alcohol problems, we are not able to predict. Moreover, even on such a question, a representative of the Ministry of Health did not say that there would be an increase in the amount allocated to this purpose, because he said in general that it was necessary to treat these people, so hospitals in contracts, etc., etc., money goes to the treatment of people who have experienced alcohol problems... So this is how it's gonna be... But it was also our clear declaration that if there was such a will on the side of government administration and social partners, then we are as the Committee on Budget and Public Finance we are ready to participate in the preparation of an amendment or a new act on sobriety education, because we see that, no matter what political views we have, that the present law has many weaknesses, many things could be handled differently and in a real way prevent excessive alcohol consumption. And what I'm saying is that these increases in alcohol prices Which, by the way, Mr. Marshal Karczewski pointed out, Mr. Senator Bierecki will not have much effect... According to your marshal, they're gonna be so small that they won't affect anyone less drinking because of it, but it's just gonna be such an impact on the budget... [[Talking in the O.R.]] The conclusion is simple... You're welcome to... Once again, I would like to say this: we believe that tax must be set at the level that it was negotiated with the government. That's why your proposal to Marshal Rotnicka... I am not a special supporter of it, because I believe that this tax can simply increase. And that he should grow as agreed. It's about not fooling people, that's all.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u142	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Karczewski, another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u143	No, just not the question, Mr. Marshal, but I would like to refer in the formula ad vocem to Senator Rotnicka because I have the right and I would like to use it if you allow it. Senator, we are always in favour of debate and discussion, and, as you recall, we have not limited it, and I would be very surprised if the Senator made a request at such a time to close the discussion or move to the next item on the agenda. There's been a conclusion. Every debate, every discussion, every voice and every question is important, Mrs. Senator. I'm deeply convinced that... I just said that I don't drink and smoke. And that's the truth. But I used to drink and smoke and these prices were relatively much higher, much higher. So I am a strong supporter of the fact that alcohol prices and cigarette prices are higher in order to prevent young people from smoking above all. It's not what you said, unfortunately, about common consumption, because no one consumes cigarettes or vodka in general, it's just that we don't want children and young people to reach for it. And every dollar in this case has a colossal meaning. Unfortunately, we also need to take into account that we are leaders when it comes to drinking alcohol per head, and every action, even the smallest action, should be over-politically and over-partyly supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u144	Thank you, Senator. I want you... Mr. Marshal... Sekundek. No, Mr. Senator, I'm talking now. I would like to assure the senator that we in this House will be watching over the rights of debate as the pupils of the eye. Yes, the debate is the essence of our parliamentarians, and I am very pleased that you are the one who has said these words. And I can assure you that none of us even have the will to suppress this debate in this House, and we respectfully respect each vote in this debate. Mr. Senator, I'm sorry... Senator, I understand, in ad vocem mode?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u145	Yeah, in replica mode. Dear Marshal, I think it's the first time I've ever had to speak on a case that I think is extremely unfortunate. You're accusing me of filing a motion to terminate the discussion. There was no such conclusion. But remember the practice of the past term... Senator Martynowski. Three or four times one of your colleagues. I'm not gonna talk about who asked me to stop the discussion. And that's when you interrupted the discussion. Four times a day that was... [[Joy in the gym.]] I remember these situations clearly. Now we're discussing things that I don't think are relevant, because the only important thing is whether it's 3% or 10%. And nothing more, and the rest is sobriety. And that's what the committee chairman was talking about. I also think this is not the lead committee on this issue, but if you're doing it, it's a good thing it's done. Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u146	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Sekundek... Mr. Marshal... Senator Borowski in question mode? No, about the formal issue. About the formal part? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u147	Mr. Marshal, I just want to remind you that we still have questions for the government representative and a discussion in which all these arguments can be put. I would also like to say that by virtue of the article. 48 (1) (a) Point 2 (3) may be requested to close the notified list. I'm not proposing it yet because I don't know how many there are, but I'm sure... There's one more person to ask questions. Just the senator... Well, there's one person. I'm just appealing... I don't want to make that motion, but I simply urge you not to stall, ask the same questions, and not to harass the senator. Thank you, Senator... That's what it's all about. So I'm gonna hold off for now, but...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u148	Thank you, Senator. Nevertheless, as long as I sit here, I will always try to make sure that everyone feels that if they want to speak in the debate, they can speak in it. A assessment of substance, meaning of speech, etc. to a large extent it should depend on voters, not on other politicians, as I have always thought. And following the principle I just gave, I invite you to ask the question of Senator Przemysław Błaszczyk. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u149	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, why do you not want to believe that this initiative is health-related? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Joy in the gym.]] I'd like to ask if at the committee meeting... We already know that excise duty has not been lifted in the last five years, but did Mr President know that? I would also like to inform the president if there was no such information at this committee meeting, as you will confirm. In the last four years, the gray zone in the tobacco industry has fallen from 20% to 10%. And when it comes to the consumption of cigarettes, their consumption has increased. It's for debate... With regard to revenue to the budget over the last 4 years, they have increased despite the fact that no excise duty has been raised due to the fact that the grey zone has been reduced. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Isn't that right... Wasn't that what the committee was discussing? And isn't it appropriate to raise excise duty at this point in time to limit access in the tobacco industry as regards the alcohol industry? Because there was the same situation. The tobacco industry thanked us, the parliamentarians of Law and Justice, for the fact that over the last four years we have behaved this way, because earlier, under your governments, excise duty was lifted every year, the gray zone was growing, and tax revenue was falling. That's not true. That's not true. Now that's changed. That's why we've decided responsibly... Mr. Senator... ...that this is the moment when you have to raise excise duty, because consumption and tobacco and alcohol are increasing.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u150	Mr. Senator, thank you very much... Answer me, Mr President. I will give the floor to the rapporteur, but let me remind you: now is the time to ask questions which the Rules of Procedure regulate as a minute for any senator who wishes to ask a question, and before us there is a discussion on this matter. And in this discussion, as you have been in this House longer than I know, every senator has 10 minutes in the first round, so there will be a full opportunity to comment on this matter, in any way the senators will want. However, now is the stage of asking questions to the rapporteur's senator. I would like to inform you that this was the last question. And so I am now asking the question: are there any other senators who want to ask you a question? I don't see any calls, so I'm closing the list of speakers. I'm asking the senator for a final answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u151	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I find it difficult to respond to the senator's statement. In my opinion, it was internally contradictory because it used contradictory arguments and they were not analysed at the committee meeting in the way that the senator put it here. So it's hard to answer, it's impossible. Have you ever discussed what influence he's had in the last five years...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u152	Mr. Senator, you're welcome. The senator had time to ask the question, the senator asked the question as you saw fit, and the senator answered the question as he deemed appropriate. The role of the marshal is to provide you with the opportunity to exchange opinions, not to assess whether you are satisfied with this exchange. It's not my job. I thank the rapporteur very much. I'm declaring a three-minute recess, followed by a vote... [[Talking in the O.R.]] No... No, no, no... No... It's for discussion. I'm sorry to vote on the motion to put on the agenda a point involving the second reading of the bill... Yes? No, no, please, there's a point right now... Look at the script, who should go on... the representative of the Ministry of Finance should take the floor right now and that's what we're waiting for. No, no, after... You moved one piece of paper further away. No, no, I'm sorry, Mr. Senator, this is for me... Mr. Marshal, this is the first time I've been in this session, which is why I'm asking you to be understanding. Nevertheless, because I'm trying to be honest with what I'm doing... After that decision, there will be a government representative... After that decision This is about our formal decision, which he will vote on, even without interruption, Mr. Senator, Mr. Marshal Grodzki We'll get to the next part. It's not gonna be... They're gonna... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Adjournment from 15 minutes 22 to 15 minutes 24.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u153	Shall we begin? Yes. I would like to remind you that, after hearing the motion made by the rapporteur, the Senate decides to join the second reading of the bill without first reading it. I will add a reminder of the voice of the rapporteur for minorities. That these 2 laws, from the third and fourth points, are in a certain continuance. We therefore proceed with the vote on the inclusion on the agenda of the item: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on the amendment of the excise duty law and the Law on customs law. Who among your senators is in favour of the second reading of the bill? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 82 senators voted, 1 for, 81 against. [[Vote number two.]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has not decided to accede to the second reading of the draft law amending the Law amending the Law on excise duty and the Customs Law at the present sitting and has therefore referred the draft to the procedure set out in Section IX of the Senate Rules of Procedure. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Don't worry, we're still at point four. If I may ask Mr. Marshal Kaminski or the next Marshal in charge, Marshal of Moravian-Stanecka, because I have guests... We are returning to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the excise duty Act. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Thank you, Minister. I'm handing over the proceedings of your Marshal of Moravian-Stanecka. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u154	We're adjourned. Please... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing our session. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Komarnicki. You're welcome, Senator Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u155	Where's the government representative, I'm sorry? There it is. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, referring to the 10% increase in excise duty proposed by the government for alcohol products and tobacco, I would like to ask the Minister how you intend to prevent the development of the grey zone. 'Cause I'm really worried about this place. and how to increase protection against illegal smuggling from other countries where products are cheaper. That's my first question. Second question. How the Government 'Cause I'm sure he's prepared for it. Is it going to help entrepreneurs in the industry if their turnover falls? And what about those people who lose their jobs because of it? And the third question. Minister, to my knowledge... Maybe I'm wrong, which is why I'd like to apologize right away. Why hasn't the government conducted any public consultation on this, I think, very important issue?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u156	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u157	Thank you very much. The first question was about the gray zone. The diagnosis related to this increase is in the Ministry of Finance such that in general the problem of the grey economy has been clearly reduced in recent years through a number of legislative measures, through organisational changes, through the way in which the tax administration operates, the tax administration. You can see that from the data, for example, when it comes to... Already in this debate or in the questions to the President, questions were repeated concerning the decrease in the number of cigarettes smuggled to Poland, i.e. from illegal sources. Indeed, there is an organisation whose data are recognised throughout Europe, the Almares organisation, which examines the extent to which cigarettes are smuggled from illegal sources, whether from smuggling or from illegal production. And this independent institution gives these data for each country. In the case of Poland, the latest data are probably from 2018. It's not much more than 10%. Uh, 11%, I think. Meanwhile, in 2014 it was 20%. In recent years, there has been a significant reduction in this phenomenon, in fact, in the case of cigarettes from 20% to 11% of the share of cigarettes from illegal sources. In the case of alcohol, in fact, the fight against the grey zone is primarily the fight against illegal production and the phenomenon of contaminated alcohol, which appears in Poland and is subsequently disinfected. And we're dealing with a series of actions here. Perhaps the most important of them is the common European desire to fight the contaminated alcohol that enters Poland. He is imported here and later on this basis appear on a mass scale various alcoholic products. Take, for example, this famous Hungarian contaminant, which was imperfect, which was easily removed. Well, it's a pan-European initiative. It could therefore be concluded that the problem of illegal alcohol production This is also the experience of the KAS, which has decreased. Therefore, the gray area is obviously, as with every increase, a challenge, but the current diagnosis is that this increase Whether it will be 3% or 10% will not result in some significant increase in the grey area. We have a SENT system which is subject to the carriage of all excise goods and therefore there is no such problem. Of course, the senator is right that buying alcohol from neighbouring countries, where the price of beer is lower, can be such a possible phenomenon. Of course, you can argue, there are no convincing arguments here. There may be a problem with increased demand, especially in border areas, but in fact, if we look at beer, which is most often just like this... The price of beer is actually lower in Germany or in the Czech Republic, but this increase, even in the case of 10% It's 6 gr, and it doesn't seem that these 6 gr on a beer bottle will be an important motivation to change something to affect consumption. Yeah, but it's too low a height to pay off just to drive for longer distances. Well, on some scale, as the senator says, there may be a greater interest in these alcohols from outside countries. But it doesn't seem like a big scale, but I'm afraid I don't know these numbers. As far as the second question on public consultation is concerned, indeed, as was discussed at the committee's meeting, the proposal for an increase in excise duty was submitted many months ago. We came up with a proposal of 3% and this proposal assumed an increase on this scale from 1 January 2020. Here there are regular questions about what happened, why the Ministry of Finance proposed a 10% increase. This was treated by the Ministry of Finance as a continuation of this discussion about the increase, only that this increase here is not 3% and 10% because we are dealing with specialized entities that are prepared for such decisions. In this respect, it is true And here's the full agreement. . consultation of this project on a 10% increase In a formal sense, it wasn't. This project was exempted from this obligation, it went on short-term, it appeared at a meeting of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers accepted this project. It seems as if the defence in this situation could be said that this discussion of excise duty was taking place for months and companies expressed their views and opinions, so it could be said that they were prepared to make this increase... They were aware that such a decision would be made. In previous years, when the excise legislation was amended, it was also done at the last moment, most often on the basis of the around budget law. And I'm gonna answer a question right here. Well, usually such a consultation was then. Although the question here is whether this is an important problem for entrepreneurs. Of course, the industry prefers a 3% increase. more than 10% You know, it's better from their perspective, it's from seeing their interests. However, it seems that a 10% increase is also acceptable. But, of course, what Mr Klein said was discussed, which is the question of the fact that these consultations did not take place. The second question is that I will come back to this business issue. We hope that the reaction of these companies will be that companies... I mean. that the increase in excise duty will not hit companies and, if any, it will induce them to look for markets abroad to export their goods. Polish goods on the alcohol market are quite well recognized, compete with goods from neighbouring countries, have high quality. In addition, there are some natural economic phenomena that will cause that the increase should not somehow adversely affect these companies. We see, in fact, that the consumer behaviour itself is going away from cigarettes, but also the transition to other products, the growing popularity of other products, e.g. e-cigarettes and novelty products, including alcohol It has changed the pattern of consumption. This is also a huge challenge for companies that produce cigarettes and alcohol, namely excise goods. And it seems that this annual change in consumption structure has a greater impact Because it's some kind of pressure for producers to adapt to these changes in consumption. than the same single example of a 10% increase. In general, consumers... In the case of cigarettes, it is clear that the decline in popularity of cigarettes strongly affects the cigarette industry in Poland. Poland is one of the largest cigarette producers, there are also many tobacco farmers, and we are aware that it is... But it is also worth remembering that the vast majority of products produced in Poland are exported. So it really is, in view of this huge scale, production for export, and in this respect what we can do is to do this from a regulatory point of view. And this would be done as part of the work on Track & Trace to simplify and make it easier, so that entrepreneurs would not have any turbulence here. Because we know that it is actually often about Polish tobacco, which is produced for export, and there is no reason to not somehow support these existing jobs. So full agreement that this is extremely important. Thank you. Thank you very much, but I urge you, Minister, not to ignore this public consultation. I understand, of course,
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u158	Let me remind you, Mr. Senator, I'm the one running this meeting. Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Beata Małecka-Libera's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u159	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I have signed up for the debate and will further deepen my inquiry. Because, actually, speaking of excise duty on alcohol and cigarettes, we should be talking about health. Bravo! Bravo! This should be the lead topic of this debate, not whether it should be 3% or 10%. And how we get there. But using the Minister's presence, I'd like to ask you a brief question. I know that in the Council of Ministers It is a government programme, so there are agreements . Ministry of Health probably gave this project a positive opinion. However, I would like to ask whether the Minister for Health presented concrete solutions, concrete proposals at the Council of Ministers, or whether he was satisfied only with the fact that this money would go to health. I personally have doubts. as to whether or not this will be the case, since the provision on excise duty on cigarettes and alcohol is such that 0,5% and 1% of these excise duties are to be directed towards prevention, and so far the implementation of this does not take place in the manner in which it is enshrined in the Act. I would therefore like to ask if any concrete proposals were made by the Minister regarding what projects the money will go to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u160	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u161	Thank you very much. Well, I say right away that I don't know anything, and I don't know anything about it either. Perhaps there was some part of the discussion at the Council of Ministers, where the Minister of Kościński was present, I think. To discuss some specific programmes. It's worth remembering that, like here, there was a discussion about whether these excise measures... Indeed, the law leads to an increase in the revenue of the State budget in the field of excise duty, and it is indeed difficult not to accept this as a fact. This is because the most important budgetary challenge facing each budget is increasing health expenditure, as the so-called 'health expenditure' is in force. 6 per cent law, which means that every year not only a specific percentage of GDP is expected to go to health, but also that this percentage is growing. Now we're over 5%. It's going to be 6%. And therefore, as if such the greatest pressure on the state budget is precisely the need to finance all these expenditures which are growing more than others. within the State budget. But that's the right thing to do. I have the impression that if we analyse various social policies, we will see that these health expenditures are, you can say, the best investment that is worth remembering, because Poles consider health to be an important element. Indeed, an increase in excise duty, an increase in excise duty rates on tobacco and alcohol has a budgetary effect and this budgetary pressure on rising health expenditure exists objectively. And from this perspective, the answer to the question of what budget pressure is most likely to lead to the search for new income is precisely this pressure resulting from the search for health expenditure that is needed, and there is no doubt about it. You could say... So, if I were to answer the senator's question specifically, I'd say that these programs aren't... i.e. have not been presented. But as I understand it, if a representative of the Ministry of Health appeared here, he would probably immediately talk about rising health expenditure in all areas, including cardiology, in the area of heart disease, also in those diseases that are the consequence of smoking and drinking alcohol, and the increase in expenditure in prevention. But as far as this discussion is concerned, I don't have enough information to say that this extra income was going to go into some particular compartment within the budget of the Ministry of Health or the NFZ.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u162	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Arthur Dunin's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u163	Mrs. Marshal, thank you very much. High Izbo! Minister! As with the previous amendment of the Solidarity Fund Act, you are simply trying to patch the budget gap with this act. Let's not kid ourselves, it's not about Poles being healthier, it's just the budget doesn't bother you. But I have a question. The fact that you're lying every step of the way... The best evidence is that your conversations with the industry, with entrepreneurs, were about a 3-percent increase in excise duty, but you changed your mind and it's 10%. Just because you're not saying anything about the actual increase in tobacco... Because apart from the fact that you're raising excise duty every year in relation to the previous year for one piece of cigarette... there's also an increase in the price of tobacco... I have one question, very important and I would like the answer to be: will, and if so, when will you introduce another excise increase?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u164	Please respond, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u165	As for the question of another increase in excise duty, I will say that there is no such decision. As I understand it, the logic that justified the 10% increase or previously of 3% ... The analyses indicated that the prices of alcohol and tobacco in relation to other prices, but also in relation to income are low enough that there is a possibility of an increase in the rate on these excise goods so as to increase the revenue from excise duty, which will then be transferred primarily to cover rising health expenditure. And in this respect, you can say natural, if I understand the senator's words. The fact is that increasing health spending means that you should look for sources of coverage for these expenses, and that is because it is... As we look at the structure of spending in the coming years, it will turn out that, of course, in addition to 2% per army... that, in fact, when it comes to growing, indexed, you can say, indicator, health spending is the most growing expenditure and motivator for finding resources. Of course, in addition to this in every period, there are political decisions on certain priorities each year, but it can be said that, in a systemic way, health is the area where pressure exists. The question is, when will there be any decision to increase excise duties? It's hard to predict. In fact, I suspect and understand that it will be rational for the Ministry of Finance to believe that it is necessary to check how this increase of 10% works. She's pretty high in relation to the original assumptions, the 3%. In addition to these 3% proposals in the spring referred to above, these three proposals were based on 3%. indexing resulting from inflation. Therefore, it can be said that these 10% It consumes a little bit of this indexing designed for the following years. I don't think it's likely that anyone was brave enough to decide on the next excise increase without a thorough analysis of the consequences of the 10% increase. I think it is important, and this is the result of consultation with the industry, that a road map is really important for the excise industry, to discuss these decisions in the future for a few years. On the part of the Ministry of Finance, there is indeed a deep understanding that this is right. We take criticism that lack of consultation is not proper behaviour by public authority. The recommendation that next time, however, not only discuss this in consultation, but propose a long-term perspective, so that even if there are increases every year, it would be the most reasonable solution for which, I have the impression, is in the Ministry of Finance understanding. And then, you can say, there will be an understanding of what can happen in the coming years, which is actually a fair discussion with the industry about the long-term perspective. If the industry is able to understand and accept some other form of decision, it seems that it can be accepted positively, because in fact this long-term horizon is probably the most secure from the point of view of companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u166	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator Paul Arndt.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u167	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I was actually moved to ask this question by Marshal Karczewski, who slightly underestimated the increase in this excise duty. I would like the Minister to remind you of the amount that would affect the budget for the increase in this excise duty and what amount would have affected if this rate had actually been less than 10% Only 3%.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u168	It's a question of greatness. The current impact assessment assumes that it will go to the budget just under PLN 1 billion 700 million. This is PLN 1 billion 700 million as part of a 10% increase in excise duty. In the case of analyses concerning a 3% increase This figure was 1 billion 150 million. So the difference between 1 billion 700 and 1 billion 150 is about 550 million PLN. This is due to It's worth remembering. The introduction of a new element, which is flexibility. This means that as part of the data for a 3-percent increase, the assumption is that there will be no such effect, let's call it a second round, which means that someone will give up smoking and drinking alcohol. Everyone who... as many cigarettes as they sell and how much alcohol they sell... Prices will increase as a result of an increase in excise duty and consumption will continue. And in the case of a 10% increase, the OSR assumes some flexibility, based on such behavioral analysis that everyone... If we have a 1% price increase, then for cigarettes at least, the flexibility is minus 0,6. , i.e. by 0.6% The consumption will drop. That's 1%. higher price and 0.6% Less consumption... Gray zone. ...out of quitting, quitting smoking cigarettes. I mean, we're not setting up a gray zone here, we're just assuming that rising prices are the incentive to quit smoking. There are no effects of the gray zone here. So if someone believes or assumes that there will be an effect of the gray zone, then they can further increase, you can say, this indicator. In the case of beer, that's minus 2.4. A 1-percent increase in the price of beer results in a decrease in consumption by 2.4%. So this is, you could say, a larger inheritance. Therefore, the expected effect of an increase in excise duty on beer is weak in terms of revenue growth, because it is at the limit of growth. But in this respect, we consider it worthwhile that excise rates should be in a certain proportion and that there should be no preference for any of these industries. In the case of alcohol, this flexibility is minus 0.07. That means that an increase in price of 1% will result in a reduction of 40% alcohol consumption by 0.07%. And for that reason, it's not such a proportion that if at 3% it's 1 billion 100, then it's at 10%. should be over 3 times more. So here's a pretty... Flexibility causes that instead of a larger sum is the effect of running away from the consumption of cigarettes and alcohol. And this was also the result of such a belief, in the course of the last reflection on this 10% increase, that the health value is also taking place, in the sense that if we believe that the increase in excise duty in some sense causes smoking to be thrown away and the withdrawal of alcohol, then we should introduce these flexibilitys into the calculation of income and actually assume that in some sense these revenues will not be as high as we originally assumed. And that's why it doesn't have that ratio, that 1 billion 150 is about 50%. Bigger... The effect of 10% growth... That would be about 50%. More. That's a 10% increase in excise duty. gives about 4.5 when it comes to increasing excise duty without flexibility. That's what it looks like in simplification with these proportions. So the effect of flexibility is quite significant. But in general, 1 billion 700 will end up in the state budget.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u169	Thank you very much. I'm asking Senator George Wright to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u170	Minister, one of the questions I wanted to ask, you basically answered. It was about the effects of increasing excise duties on our market and the market share of imported alcohols. You said you didn't think there would be any effect. However, I would prefer that the government doesn't seem to be investigating these issues and that the government is able to answer such questions, all the more so because now that you are talking about the financial consequences of an increase in excise duty, you are talking about the fact that the increase in excise duty will not result in an increase in income from the increased tax by the amount calculated, only by a certain percentage less the sale of the product which is subject to excise duty. I'm going back to the question right now. The government probably hasn't re-examined whether if excised alcohol is sold in less... It will not be so that there will be less alcohol sold, just so that there will be an increase in the sales of imported alcohol, e.g. beer from neighbouring countries, and so-called Monkeys whose price is equal to the price of beer. And that's another threat. Now that we're talking about who we think we are, I'm going to say that a lot of the environment seems to me that if young people choose monkeys with high-fat alcohol, the risk of addiction will increase more than if they drink beer. Has the government analyzed what seems to be different environments, that such a decision increases the risk of alcohol addiction?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u171	It's worth remembering one thing. If someone brings legally beer, spirits, wine from abroad Let's say it's Italian wine, German vodka and Czech beer. And sells it legally in Poland... Whether a Polish or foreign product is sold, the Polish excise duty is applicable. Therefore, what concerns the question, the right question, is the situation when we are dealing with the purchase of a product abroad and bringing this product into Poland for consumption... I understand that it is a commodity without Polish excise marks. Yes? In such a sense without Polish excise marks... Is it imported in an illegal way, or is it simply brought by someone who lives on the Polish-Czech or Polish-German border and goes, say, on the weekend to shop for a party in a German supermarket or in a Czech supermarket? The information we have... As you say, Senator, as I said before, we don't have accurate data. The diagnosis of the National Tax Administration is that we do not see huge quantities of alcohol products or cigarettes bought in this way, e.g. somewhere in the Czech Republic, and imported to Poland. That's not happening. In the case of beer prices... They may not be drastically lower, but actually prices in the Czech Republic or Germany are smaller, and in this case this could happen. For now, one National Tax Administration doesn't see it as a clear trend. That's why the 6 gr on the beer... I'll repeat: it doesn't seem to be the effect that will cause the change. Of course, full right, it would be good to conduct additional analyses. As a result, the National Tax Administration... I mean, what we can do is ask the KAS to re-examine this issue of the transport of alcohol from abroad to Poland, based on precisely this type of phenomenon that was mentioned.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u172	Thank you very much. I'm asking Senator Jolanta Hibner to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u173	Thank you very much. Minister, your argument shows a fantastic vision, a noble goal of fighting alcoholism in this way. Then I'd like to ask you why this amount... If this amount is to be paid to the Ministry of Health, then why is it not allocated to programmes that already exist, e.g. programmes related to the exit of alcohol disease, lung disease programmes in the case of tobacco or other drugs? Why aren't we trying to channel this money towards specific goals, but they're supposed to be all over the budget? In addition, it is not stated that the budget revenue from this excise duty will be allocated to health care. It's not exactly advisable, it's just said that health care will actually have an increase in income now, because it's up to 6%. We're gonna kill you, but it's not exactly advisable that that's what the money's gonna go for. Why, if such a noble purpose is presented here?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u174	First of all, the general principles of public finances are based on the fact that if we have a budgetary economy, then we don't... The Public Finance Act combats a mechanism in which specific revenue is allocated to specific expenditure. And that's the basic principle that, from the point of view of... You could say that in this case This is a negative aspect, but this makes sense in general from the point of view of public finance management. We assume rationally that politicians, when they are given the opportunity to make budgetary decisions, make decisions in a competent manner in order to allocate these funds to the most important social objectives. I understand this question, Senator, but that's all I can say, is that it's really a decision on what the Minister of Health is going to spend this money on in his pot. "Whether for prevention or for heart disease, or for basic health care, it is only his and, as I understand it, the people who manage the National Health Fund. Therefore, it can be said that these decisions are made in that place. This money pool is defined under this law, within the framework of these 6% and these projected growths, but it is really every health minister who makes the decisions and decides what is most important. Of course, as I understand it, the debate on the draft budget law for 2020 will also take place in Parliament, the Parliament and the Senate. A discussion on the additional resources received by the Minister for Health in the 2020 budget. And with regard to these additional measures, as I understand it, he will have to explain how much has gone towards these objectives of prevention, the fight against addiction, and how much on other issues, especially as there is a clear increase in health spending in general. Well, therefore, I think it's also an opportunity to... I don't want to duck, but I really feel that better, more competently answer this question by a representative of the Ministry of Health when there's a discussion about how these growing health expenditures are going to spread.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u175	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u176	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The primary project did not change the rate of excise duty on electronic cigarette liquid. There is such a change in the definitive printing, in the law, but at the same time there is an article. 2 of the Law of December 2017 amending the Excise Tax Act, which, by 1 July of the following year, imposes a zero rate on novel products and electronic cigarette liquid. Will these new rates that we are now considering apply from 1 January 2020 or from 1 July? 'Cause if it was July 1st, we'd have to remove the art. Two out of this bill. What is the purpose of the ministry, what are the purposes?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u177	The objective is that taxation and innovative products, and e-cigarettes, in line with the extension of this period of implementation into the excise system, or in fact those securities... means that excise regulations are only due to expire on 1 July. In fact, the taxation of these goods will take place on 1 July, but already this law raises by 5% for both novel products and e-cigarettes, the rate of excise duty, in the same way as for traditional cigarettes. Therefore, the rate of excise duty applicable from 1 July A 5% increase for all products, namely cigarettes, e-cigarettes and novelty products.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u178	Thank you very much. Senator Eve Matecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u179	Minister, I deeply want to believe that your proposed increase in excise duty will be intended to reduce alcohol consumption and other drugs. If so, I understand that to protect our health and fight addiction. Please tell us what is the structure of the distribution of excise income at the moment and what will be after this increase. Thank you. I'm sorry, I just wanted to ask you if it's about health spending or if it's about the structure of the division. No, not just for health. What is the structure of the distribution of excise income? We ourselves will learn how much money is spent on health and the fight against addiction. What is the situation at the moment, and what will be the result of the proposed increase?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u180	As far as this question is concerned, I can only say that excise revenue goes directly to the state budget. And in that sense, what we can... I propose a written reply because we can ask the Minister of Health how much money he spends on prevention tasks, combating addictions, to show those expenditures that are in 2019, and we can look for them in the draft budget law, if it is, for 2020. I don't, unfortunately, have the data on me, so I suggest if the senator allows us to answer that question in writing. Yes, I'm asking that this answer be in writing. What is the income, what is the breakdown structure, and what will be the result of the possible increase? Sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u181	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator Bogdan Borusewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u182	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Tell me if this alcohol excise is related to the volume of this alcohol at retail or not, whether it's the same for everyone.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u183	She's untied, 1 g of alcohol at a certain rate. Aha, 1 g, that's half a liter and an excise monkey is the same. Thank you very much. You can differentiate... Depending on... Excuse me, Mrs. Marshal, I'll fill in the answer to your Marshal's question. The excise is based on the so-called. hectolitres of ethyl alcohol, 100 per cent. And really, if you're in a monkey It's a good idea. There is another amount of ethyl alcohol due not to the percentage but to the volume, that and excise duty, of course, is smaller in proportion to the fact that it is a quarter-litre bottle rather than a half-litre bottle. But in general, the rate of excise duty is based only on pure alcohol, depending on how much pure alcohol there is.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u184	Thank you very much. Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u185	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I would like to ask about the economic and social impact of the increase in excise duty. Well, I'm curious if you've been analysing the effects of this increase in excise duty for companies and employees of these companies.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u186	During the discussion in the context of the public consultation, when this 3-percent increase in excise duty was discussed... At this stage, the result of the increase in excise duty related to companies and the consequences for companies was presented by companies in such a way that they are aware of the potential risks associated with this, mainly due to the abandonment of consumption. It is worth remembering that when we decide to increase the price of excise goods - No, it's true. There are several conflicting goals. On the one hand, we are dealing with a situation where the rise in excise duty increases the price of goods and at the same time makes people who smoke cigarettes more likely to quit cigarettes, and those who drink alcohol are willing to give up drinking alcohol. We have additional information. In the context of this consultation, the arguments from PARPA that, in fact, the trend towards quitting, giving up applies more to young people, that if someone already consumes alcohol or smokes cigarettes for several years or more, rather these prices affect his decision to a lesser extent. Usually, prices are a factor that affects young people who start smoking or start drinking alcohol. Therefore, the Polish Agency for the Solution of Alcohol Problems, PARPA, was in favour of raising excise prices because of the fact that it In her opinion, In fact, young people are most discouraged from using cigarettes and alcohol by entering into adult life. And that was the voice, you could say, the supporters of rising prices, or actually excise duties and therefore prices. On the other hand, of course, there is the budgetary aspect mentioned here. Raising excise duty is more revenue to the budget, which can, of course, be used for different purposes, and if it wants to, it can be used for health. The third element is what the senator is talking about, which is that when the consumption of excise goods, cigarettes or alcohol falls, it is of course that cigarette or alcohol producers are getting worse because their market is shrinking. And of course we also take this into account, only that, you can say, today you can see that this industry is experienced by many other situations, such as. change of consumer behaviour, a more healthy lifestyle. Traditional cigarettes compete with e-cigarettes and innovative products, there is a change of structure, there is a departure from... Imported wines, fruit wines, beer, vodka... Therefore, it can be said that these industries, these companies, are already subject to a number of market changes, which cause some companies to go up and the other to go down. Cider starts to compete, to market, big breweries lose their position because breweries so-called. handicrafts. Therefore, we are analyzing this situation, but we do not have any prescriptions, because in fact these market factors are strong enough that they will project on the future of sales and companies that produce tobacco and alcohol.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u187	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal... Yes, Senator? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u188	Minister, you haven't answered my question. You said a lot of important things, but you didn't answer my question. And in response, you pointed out the high risk that alcohol and tobacco companies are exposed to. I was more concerned with you answering my question as to whether the government was analyzing the social consequences for workers working in these companies. Is it just as you said, if the sales structure changes, will it affect the dismissal of workers or the wages of these workers? I mean, that's the answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u189	I will answer this directly: in the impact assessment there is a part about the impact on entrepreneurs, companies and, as a result, people working there... In general, this analysis has been carried out and the result of the analysis is that these effects are not clear, important, rather negligible.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u190	That's it? Thank you. I ask you to ask Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u191	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Senate! Minister! Minister, I have such a question, such a doubt. The Minister assures us that this money will be used to protect our health and our lives. You assure us of that. But I don't know if you know that a moment ago there was a bill under discussion, a kind of deal that the government made with people with disabilities and their guardians and promised that the fund you created would only be meant for them, and no one would ever take it away from them or lend it to them. You didn't even make a deal like this. You've eliminated it in a way... You've shredded this fund. That's why my question is why... We wanted to ask for assurance, but this assurance is not available, and even at second reading, at the Parliament's meeting you rejected the amendment that said that these funds should be earmarked for the financing of the National Programme for the Control of Cancer Diseases. Why can't you even give us the assurance that this money will actually be targeted and go to the protection of our health and life? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u192	The fact that this amendment was rejected is precisely due to the fact that the state budget is... The principle of the budgetary economy according to the Public Finance Act is precisely such that it is not attributed to specific revenues of specific expenditure, i.e. it cannot be said that if there are any funds from any tax, then they are assigned to... It is contrary to the Public Finance Act. Regardless of this, it can be said that the government proposing the budget of the state and later the parliament which accepts it assumes that we have specific expenses for which we must find coverage, which is precisely the result of... These are health expenses. If there is a diagnosis that we want to make a decision, in an objective way looking, well, this is how we want to increase spending on health, on the army or on something else, and we see that these natural growths, such as the increase in income in the area of PIT or ZUS tax... means VAT contributions, i.e. VAT revenue is not fully sufficient to cover these expenditures, other sources should be sought. And in this sense there is, as I understand it, an analysis carried out to find additional funding, in this case rising health expenditure. Of course, it's here... what I can say is that there's no... The fact that health expenditure is increasing is undeniable, for example, due to the fact that there is a 6% law. Since this law exists, it produces, so to speak... is a reason for the obligation, perhaps imposed on the Minister of Finance, to find funds to cover these expenses, so that the revenues cover health expenses. Therefore, the senator's question is: can these expenses stay... can this increase in excise income go to another place? I'm sure that there is no assignment, of course, as I said before, to ensure that these excise income goes to this place, but certainly, as long as the Act of 6% is in force. The government is committed to spending so much money on health. It's like the foundation, the foundation of this situation, that the money from the budget goes to health care, the 6% bill. and, of course, other political declarations, political decisions, which are that the government wants to spend money on health. And as long as the government, the politicians want, they accept this situation, as long as it's in force. Of course, all of this is subject to democratic procedure. For this reason, it seems as if the reason why so many measures will go to health is, above all, the law on 6%.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u193	Thank you very much. Please, Senator Jacek Bury.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u194	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I can't hear you. Can't hear you? I'm a mess, so I'm sorry. I was just jogging to find some medication. I have a question for you. As far as I know, it is only from July that excise duties on e-cigarettes, heating cartridges and experimental tobacco products are to be introduced. The Act guarantees that this will come into force from July, and we want to include these products in the Act which is now entering into force, which is to raise the rate of excise duty on something that has not yet been subject to excise duty. I don't know if it's going to be counted from zero and some percentage raised, which will automatically give us zero or some other way you want to solve it, for example. accelerate the introduction of excise duties on such products.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u195	I'm answering the question. We already know what is at stake for e-cigarettes and innovative products, only that we will start charging this tax from 1 July 2020. Companies will at this point start paying it. They already have reporting obligations, but they have no obligation to pay this tax. Therefore, we can further assess the potential effects of the entry into force of the tax on these two commodity groups on 1 July. And this 5% increase will apply to the original rate for e-cigarettes and novelty products, this heated tobacco, which was planned earlier and would enter into force on 1 July. Since all goods are equally subject to an increase in excise duty, this also includes these 2 commodity groups. And that's 5%. is counted against the original amount of excise duty. So it's only gonna be downloaded from July 1st? Yes. I mean, nothing will change as far as the deadline is concerned, because on 1 July this law enters into force, which will tax innovative products, novel products, i.e. e-cigarettes and novel products. The rate of excise duty is already set, but it will only take effect on July 1st.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u196	Thank you very much. Then I'll close the list of questions. One more thing. Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u197	Minister, about October, I mean until the election, this excise duty was supposed to rise by 3%, and now it's going to rise by 10%. At the same time, you argue that this is about less smoking and less drinking. My question is: why was it not important until October and it became important in December?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u198	I think that these health factors were also important earlier... A little less, a little less. Three times less. You can assume that... well, the question is whether such an increase in excise duty, this 10%, is actually three times more ailing for smokers and drinkers. That's actually a question that... As a matter of fact, it's kind of hard for me to answer that question. It's just that these analyses were... I see. It's hard...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u199	Thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Leszek Skiba: Thank you very much.]] I'm closing the list of questions. Thank you very much, Minister. And I'm opening a discussion. I remind you of the need for the senators to vote with the Senator in charge of the list of speakers. The senator's speech in the discussion must not last more than 10 minutes. Signed proposals of a legislative nature are submitted by the senators to the Senate marshal until the debate is closed. Senator Beata Małecka-Libera, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u200	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Senate! About 2.5 hours we discussed excise duty on alcohol and cigarettes, but during these two hours we did not talk much about the topic of the most important, i.e. health, and this was supposed to be the most important issue in the case of raising this excise duty. After listening to all the speeches, I am convinced that the role of the Minister of Health has been limited here, in this part, only to the conclusion that he accepts this excise duty. Whether it's 3% or 10% , the money was intended to be used for treatment, mainly for the treatment of addicts, and for combating the effects and issues related to the fight against alcoholism. Unfortunately, we have not heard any proposal here that would definitely reassure us that this excise increase, although it will be addressed to the budget, will be dedicated, marked for the fight against these problems. And this, once again, is the role of the Minister of Health. Because if the Minister of Health offered comprehensive solutions, specific programmes and said that we were going to tax 'Cause it's a tax. But we will use this money to fight alcoholism and its problems, then, I think, the High Senate would have no doubt as to whether we should raise this tax, this excise duty, by 3% or by 10%, because this money would be marked. This is the first case. Second thing. The mere increase in tax, that is, the increase in excise duty, does not solve the problems of alcoholism. These must be comprehensive solutions, because only then will they be effective. I would like to remind you that in 2014 there was also increased excise duty . by 15%. for alcohol and 5% for cigarettes. And what effect do we have now, after a few years? Well, ladies and gentlemen, I have reached out to the government's report on public health tasks, and there it is clearly defined, which has been done by PARPA over the past few years, the agency that has been called upon to solve alcohol problems, and how the law on sobriety education has been implemented. The effect is that we have an increase in alcohol consumption and at the moment it is assumed that its consumption per person reaches an average of 12 l. So the bill did not work, and the funds that were spent were not spent effectively. Therefore, only complex solutions, including the amendment of the Sobriety Education Act, can have any effect. And that's why I'm convinced that the money now goes to the budget, dedicated to health, i.e. in quotes to determine that they will be directed to health They will absolutely not be used in this respect. Second thing. One senator here raised the question of why the amendment on excise duty increases and the allocation for cancer treatment was rejected. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you that the treatment of addicts and diseases associated with alcohol disease is mainly burdened with SORs, which are hospital emergency services, with which we have a huge problem, because we know that these are underfunded units, and the number of people who go there is very large. That is why I thought that perhaps the Minister would be interested in this part and say: yes, we are doing a special programme, we are raising the financing of hospital emergency services, in order to address this issue in this way. But neither the sobriety education bill nor the treatment of addicts is an option here. That's why I think we're, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, being deceived. Above all, health protection is deceived, as the explanatory statement makes it clear that excise duty is intended to counter the social and health consequences of alcohol consumption, but there is no such project anywhere. Therefore, I think that public opinion has been misled. There is indeed a hole in the budget, we have the end of 2019 and we have a problem with budget shortcoming, and therefore various forms of increase in this budget are sought. But there is no agreement to raise health issues in the justifications and to cover that more money will be for health. I also regret that during this debate there is no Minister of Health who absolutely does not want to speak. I think he just realizes that the money will only feed the budget, not the health system. And one more thing for me to say. We already know that the guarantee that this money will go to health care is gone. But I would also like to point out that the context of the OSR was also raised here, i.e. an assessment of the impact of the regulation, which is, of course, in every draft law. She's about the money. And it is a pity that there is no description of the health impact in this regulation, because the growing number of people who are dependent will undoubtedly generate an increase in costs. But this bill is certainly not the solution to the problem. Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u201	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Paul Arndt.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u202	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! I have no doubt that this law has one purpose: to raise budget revenue. I read the government's justification for this law, the draft law that went to the Sejm, and there, in fact, the only argument that is used is that the last increase in excise duty took place on 1 January 2014. During the earlier discussion, when the questions were asked, information was given that in the past the government had often raised excise duty, especially excise duty on cigarettes, on tobacco. And so it was, the coalition of the Civic Platform and PSL some time ago raised the excise duty cyclically, e.g. for tobacco products, but this was due to the fact that we had to make this minimum excise duty, which was preferred or applied in the European Union. We didn't have a choice back then. We did it gradually and that's why it happened several times, not through one decision. Now this decision is 10%. I say again: I do not believe that there is any other reason than this reason for budget revenue. We've been discussing a lot about health care here. An example has already been made that during the work of the Sejm, this amount was proposed to be allocated for a specific purpose, namely the National Programme for the Control of Cancer Diseases, and this amendment was rejected. The Minister said that in fact all the income goes into the same bag and the government decides how They're being separated. And I generally agree with this idea, but there are many exceptions to this idea. I would no longer like to bring up these exceptions here, but I think it would be good if this was also the exception for a specific health purpose. But that did not happen, and therefore I do not believe that any health aspects have decided that we are introducing a higher excise duty. It cannot be that health aspects today are actually just as if an alibi for the implementation of this law. The situation is that it would be best if, for example. With this bill, they reduced smoking, drinking alcohol. I'd be willing to vote for a bill like that. If that were true, this would have the effect of reducing alcohol consumption and smoking less tobacco. But for health protection related to the use of e.g. We spend more money than we spend on the budget. Unfortunately, it didn't sound like it here, we're not thinking about it. That is why I also believe that there is considerable doubt about the adoption of this law, even in the version proposed by the Committee on Budgets and Finance, i.e. the assumption that excise duties should be reduced to 3%, as the Government had previously proposed. I think it would be worthwhile for us to think about rejecting this bill in its entirety. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u203	Thank you very much. Senator Borusewicz, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u204	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have no doubt that this bill is about shaving. Not in that common sense of the word, but in shaving a taxpayer. By October, there was supposed to be a 3% increase in excise duty. These were the arrangements with companies and stakeholders, but also with employers' organisations. In December, the Ministry of Finance said: 10%. For what reason? It's clear to me: there's no money. And talking about the health of Poles is pure camouflage. I once again participate in such a discussion, and I know that on drugs there is so-called. rigid demand, and as the price rises, this demand does not decrease. There could be a hesitation, and then he's back to normal. So this is not about health aspects. And even in this camouflage, a representative of the Ministry of Health took the floor at the committee meeting. The Ministry of Finance was in the background. But, Minister, when it comes to health... Poles have been drinking so-called lately. Monkeys, they use so-called. Monkeys. These are the small amounts. And as far as health is concerned, you should pay more excise duty on those smaller quantities of alcohol sold in detail. And that could have been introduced. You didn't do it, so it's not about that. It's about getting extra money from the market. And that's one aspect. The second aspect I want to draw attention to is the formal aspect of the Senate. Well, at the committee meeting, Senator PiS, when he realized that this law also concerns a different situation, excise duty on technical alcohol, gas, fuel Because it seems that it was in this law that it was right that we need to make changes that will result in that... The principle that this kind of turnover is already to be accounted for electronically, that entrepreneurs are to be accounted for in an electronic manner, not in paper... Turns out entrepreneurs aren't ready to move. is the introduction of mandatory electronic marketing. And rightly so, because the price for gas consumed directly in households, but also aviation gasoline, fuel for ships, would increase rapidly. Although we proposed a constitutional solution, he said I didn't care. After all, many times the Senate has already applied such a solution that it has tabled amendments that went beyond the matter of the law in the Sejm. It did not even convince him that we decided to come up with a legislative initiative, which the Senate's Rules of Procedure allows. This is the initiative we have proposed. It was as if he had not noticed that there was a different situation in the previous term, and the majority in the Senate were the Senators of Law and Justice. He didn't care if these were constitutional or non-constitutional amendments. And the Constitutional Tribunal has already stated three times that the Senate's going beyond the matter of seym changes is unconstitutional. What happened? It happened that we, of course, passed it, adopted the bill, and a day or two later, the Sejm passed the same bill. And today we have two projects. We had to get out of one. We had to either vote against the Parliament's submission or withdraw from ours. I think we've done the right thing. We've withdrawn from our project. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this was the first time that the Sejm passed the same bill as we proposed. It's a precedent. I hope this isn't the way the game with the Senate will be played. If that were the case, it would be a very bad, very bad situation, a situation that would cause conflict. We do not want such a conflict and that is why we voted in favour of withdrawing our project in order to proceed with the Seym Law in a normal manner. Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u205	Thank you very much. I ask Senator Leszek Czarnobaj to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u206	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Before I talk about the financial issue and the procedure for adopting this law in general, I would like to add one more thing to what Senator Beata Małecka-Libera said. When you read the information about when and how alcohol consumption in the Scandinavian countries fell... There was huge money going to fight this addiction, limited the number of shops, the only store was filmed and shown on local televisions, who bought it. This did not have any effect. On the contrary, alcohol consumption increased at a huge price increase. And in 2004 in Scandinavia, Denmark became a miracle. The consumption fell, although the excise duty was reduced in part. Turns out This also happened in 2014 in Sweden The only thing that affects the restriction, such as the most important one, is not availability, price, excise duty or other things, but the fact that alcohol and cigarettes are harmful to health. It takes many years and a lot of effort to convince the Polish society to this obvious truth, as the classic says. Talking about the fact that excise duty reduces consumption is just making up for ideology. So much for supplementing this thread. I would like to say that we have discussed with the Minister for a long time. I would like to draw attention to a few elements. Well, of course I think that as an opposition, we should consider the most important thing. If that's part of the budget patching And I just read that the Prime Minister is talking about the fact that the budget is in fantastic condition and that there will be 18 billion more for consumption. What are we talking about? Well, what's the 40th first tax? First in the new term, because 40 were in the previous What do you want me to do? Maybe it's worth thinking about it. I'm talking about the Senators of the Civic Coalition and the other senators. Perhaps it is worth considering this proposal? But I would like to point out another aspect. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what I raised in the discussion at the committee meeting and later in the discussion with the Minister of the Republic. Entrepreneurs are asked to do so: 3%. Well, they're happy to say: okay, it's okay, we agree on it, inflation is fine, we're preparing as an industry to 3%. And after the consultation, It just so happened that it happened after the election. Of the 3% it turned 10%. And yet, in his speech, the Prime Minister used the word "normal" 34 times, he said that he dreamed of Poland being a normal country. If it is so that the Prime Minister of the Polish Government talks about normality and sends a signal to entrepreneurs, to the industry that he wants 3% and then he makes 10% of it. Is that normal? Not in my opinion. That's one thing. Secondly, it has been waiting so long for this proposal not to give the President 20 days or 21 days by the end of the year. Well, Mr. President's probably waiting with a pen to sign it anyway, just to get it over with, but even though for the sake of decency, we as parliamentarians should be taking care of the majesty of the President's office. You can't do that. Quickly, before you go on holiday, bring the President a bill: Mr. President, we have passed a wonderful bill, sign it. That is why there is a vacathio legis, that is why it is time for the head of state so that the President of the Republic can calmly examine what concerns the laws adopted. And another effect, which was raised and is raised in general when it comes to the question of Poland's perception as a stable country in the legal sense. After all, in Poland we are dealing with the biggest decrease in investment for 30 years, investments understood as the sum of all investments in Poland. With this economic growth in Europe and in the world, with this economic growth in Poland, we have the lowest investment rate. And how do you think businessmen are? Not at this meeting, not at all. They're picking them up? Why do they not want to invest in Poland? It's because you talk to them about one thing, and you get the other. And as the president of one of the German companies said, who wanted to invest in Poland in car charging stations... After a complete collapse of the renewable energy programme in Poland in the previous term of law and justice says: we will now rebuild the functioning of renewable energy. Well, they've been ruining it for four years, and now they're awake to do it. And she says this: it is better to get along with the third world than with Poland. It's tragic, it's the result of this kind of practice. You talk about one thing and you do your job anyway. And I think there's a few things in the budget... Because that's 1 billion 700 million. Maybe it's worth thinking about cutting back on one of the expenses. But I think maybe the next people who speak will make such an offer. And finally, it's a raise. Well, Mr. Marshal as a person who doesn't eat these drugs, said it's 30 gr, 1 gr, 70 gr, 1 zł. I understand that people think that 1 gr, 10 gr, 1 zł is nothing, but, Ladies and gentlemen, it is also called. psychological effects. When you read what our citizens say, that is, how beautifully PiS defines it, the representatives of the sovereign... Today, every increase is 10%. is 4 times higher than planned inflation. That's what I call it. psychological effect, because some people, even though they will be able to afford it, will begin to consume less quality drugs or protect themselves in the gray area. So that I would suggest that we do not talk about the fact that with excise duty we will fight for healthier Poland and that Poles use the drugs less, because it did not work anywhere in the world. Although there are things that haven't worked out in the world, and in Poland they do. E.g. The destruction of the entire justice system in a democratic way did not succeed anywhere, and in Poland, as you can see, it is peacefully succeeding. So maybe we could improve the health of Poles by raising excise duty, but I personally don't believe it. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u207	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Jack Bury.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u208	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'd like to start by quoting: "When I read that every day you sell up to 3 million monkeys, of which even 1 million before noon, I'm extremely concerned. We're not talking about extra revenue on the budget. We want to build a state of prosperity, and prosperity is more than just a high income. It's also health, freedom from stress, certainty tomorrow. With these words, Prime Minister Morawiecki justified the increase in excise duty. Is that what it is? Is the current power primarily about the health of Poles, not about fulfilling electoral promises from finance that are not yet available? I have the impression that in recent weeks we have witnessed the government's panicking search for money by the PiS authorities. We have an example of this law, which we discussed before noon, the Solidarity Fund Act, and now we have an example of excise duty. And since the Prime Minister says that the government will receive PLN 1 billion 700 million in the budget, I have this question, since it is supposed to be in the interest of the health of Poles: what forms of prevention will the PiS transfer these funds to? As far as I know, no additional measures in terms of prevention have been planned. The Prime Minister talks with great care about the health of Poles on the occasion of excise duty. I would ask that with the same commitment the PiS government take care of the state of Polish health protection, which is the day before the catastrophe. I suspect there won't be such a big commitment, because here we'd have to find money from somewhere, make money and add it, and in the case of excise duty, it's taking money from society. It's much easier. Since we are at an economic impact, I would also quote: the 10% increase in excise duty on beer will result in an increase in beer price, a decrease in sales, lower than assumed budgetary revenues and the risk of job losses associated with the production and sale of beer in Poland. That's what the Beer Industry Employers' Association thinks. And further: We estimate that a possible reduction in the volume of beer production will affect in particular 22 thousand people employed in agriculture and food processing, which provide the Polish beer industry with hops and cereals. Did the PiS take these votes into account? Or did it lean over those words? And here's another quote: "We're here." Probably just like all industries, surprised by the scale of the proposed increase. It was neither consulted nor even communicated. The draft amendment was adopted very quickly, in circulation mode, which in the case of such important laws, with financial consequences for the economy, is an unusual mode. This is in turn the assessment of the Employers' Union of the Polish Spirit Industry. Further: we must also say that price increases will contribute to the development of the grey zone and to the strengthening of the grey zone. No one's analyzing that either. The question whether the Polish government considered all these votes must be answered: no. I have here a statement from the Legal Office's opinion: The lack of a broad reference to the issue of consultation may raise doubts. Ladies and gentlemen, is this the democratic rule of law? Is that how you proceed with the bill? Is this how we want to build trust, trust entrepreneurs in you? This was told by a colleague who preceded me, Leszek's colleague. I am an entrepreneur who has been in business for more than 27 years, I give work to more than 500 people. I'm well aware of the expectations of entrepreneurs vis-à-vis the state. If you want us to invest, the senator's friend talked about it too. For us to create jobs so that we can develop our companies, give us reasons to do so. Show that we can trust the state instead of being afraid that in a moment the Sejm will pass another bill, which will be a legal bug and which will cost us, businesses and consumers. Such behaviours are currently building a terrible climate for business in Poland, and this translates into a decrease in investment. I appeal especially to the representatives of the PiS: don't treat us, entrepreneurs, like a worse sort. Do not ignore us in the consultation process, as practice shows. Our opinion is important and should be heard, especially where consumer price increases are involved. But most importantly, what I'm trying to say is... I'm already abstracting on the quality of lawmaking. The fact is that I will never vote in favour of raising taxes, and raising excise duty is an increase in taxes. That is a declaration and a promise I made to my constituents, and I have no intention of fooling them. I will never raise my hand for raising any tribute in Poland, because taxes in Poland are still high. And every accounting procedure, pretending we don't raise taxes, means reaching into the wallets of Poles and Poles. Our citizens are well aware of this. I remember Law and Justice saying he'd never raise taxes. Oh, yeah! The distribution that she's doing, and the lack of rational financial policy, have caused you to start looking for money in our citizens' wallets. I personally will not allow it and will not raise my hand behind this bill. Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u209	Thank you. You're welcome, Senator Robert Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u210	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I promised it would be brief, so I'll be brief, like my previous speaker, Senator Bury, that I won't vote in favour of raising taxes. Law and Justice promised that taxes would get lower. Excise is also a tax. And it doesn't matter if the cigarette or alcohol goes 30 gr or the gold, because 10%. But it's a mega raise. 10% You won't get it today, Minister, on no return on any investment, you won't get it on any tenant, you won't get it on all kinds of financial instruments. If it worked the other way, and if it could be the 10% today, To make money, maybe this raise would somehow be in line with it. And the other thing. It was raised here, too. I don't believe and I don't think anyone believes that any price has the power to stop people who are going to want alcohol or this little so-called one. Bombs that are sold in several million or in large bottles, or alcohol produced in the cellars, because this is what happens. No raise is gonna stop that. And as for what my previous speakers have said here, Certainly education, certainly a healthy lifestyle, certainly creating all the values that bring it, but certainly not increasing infinity of prices. If you want to fight alcoholism, you can introduce Prohibition, which didn't work out, even in the United States. We remember what happened there. But I think it's 10%. raises are a lot. Minister, when the last raises were made, I was a senator, too. There was to be a solution to a problem that you did not mention today and which escapes every time, which is the problem of excise duty exchange when it comes to tobacco products. There's a recipe. I don't know why he was created when it comes to tobacco products, not, for example, tobacco products. wine or alcohol That old excise duty that was legally paid, pasted... Within 3 months, and so by the end of March, all cigarettes that haven't sold at retail points need to be applied a new excise duty, which is absurd for me, because once a legalised commodity needs to be legalized again. One to the other has no contact at all Or they have to be withdrawn and thrown out, which means they have to be put at risk. These are not individual cases, because not all goods rotate 100%, some are in stock, but small shops also do not always attach importance to this and do not always sell the first product that entered. Sometimes it is added and such things happen, and then there is a mega-excise problem related to penalties and what is happening. I do not know why someone has introduced such a provision and this provision still applies today, because it has no rational justification, because if someone bought legal goods in December, it sells it in January, March, April, like. wine or strong alcohols. The same is the excise sticker, but there is no need to replace the goods. There is confusion between factories that operate in Poland, wholesale networks and retailers, because in March everyone either kicks out, withdraws these cigarettes, or makes some uncontrollable cleaning with them. I would ask the Minister to perhaps amend this provision, which is not life. He's making things difficult and there's no rational justification, because no one's gonna spend it today. I don't know. On the warehouse slope of millions of zlotys to invest in goods that will lie and sell for months. It is too expensive an investment in small turnover and with a small return. So I would ask you to pay attention to this, if you would, Minister, and to inform you in writing whether such a decision will be justified and feasible in the coming year, because I know that you were to deal with it in the previous term and straighten it out. This was caused by I think there's a mistake or an oversight, because if all the goods were involved, it would still be understandable, and there are a lot of excise goods. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Stanisław Karczewski.]] Excuse me, Senator, in writing? Yes? Because I don't know, and I have to record it. In writing, if there is a positive decision. If it is not positive, then also in writing explaining why it is not possible to introduce such normality in the marketing of these products, because excise duties on tobacco products must be replaced after 3 months, while alcohols, cognacs, wines and other...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u211	Minister, will this be possible in writing? Good. Thank you very much, Senator. Now Mr. Senator Bogucki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u212	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm surprised you put so much effort into defending the tax, but the drug tax. I would understand these voices if it were to be a universal tax, a tax that we pay regardless of whether we use drugs or not, a food tax, bread tax, a tax on children's products, for pensioners, well, the products necessary for life. But when you're trying to defend the drug tax, I don't understand how you think at all. I'm trying to understand him, but I can't. It's probably too easy. It could be said that the simple concept of tax in itself and only tax will solve the problem of alcoholism will solve the problem of tobacco use. No, it didn't work in any country, and it probably won't work in Poland either. Alcohol is cheaper to the east of Poland, usually more expensive to the west and we know what social problems related to the use of alcohol are on one side of our border and on the other. We also know that our invaders often applied to Poles methods of drinking, allowing access to alcohol, even when many things were banned, because this is the best way to destroy the nation. Thus, the tax is one of the elements of the fight against drugs and we should accept it as a sure thing proven everywhere, although we must be aware that the arguments you are using, the arguments of this type, that if we cross a certain barrier, then the grey zone will grow, we should consider. But is it 10%? After 5 years of not raising taxes, is it really a huge increase? Oh, no. As a math teacher, no one can convince me that 10% That's 2%. per year, even less, because if the tax were raised annually by 2%, then after 5 years we would have had a greater effect, probably 11% I'm counting in memory right now, I didn't count it before because that's how percentage bills work. There are also voices that the most important are agreements with entrepreneurs, agreements with the social side. Yeah, you could say that, actually. With who? Ano of 3, with 4 global companies, not with Polish business, because they have a dominant influence not only on Polish, but also on the European and global cigarette market. And in Poland after years, after these 30 years, or actually after 26 years, after twenty years of privatizing everything senselessly and forcefully all cigarette factories are in the hands of foreign companies. Tobacco is not the tobacco of Polish farmers, it is mostly tobacco imported from developing countries, which is probably what it is called at the moment, or if any other word should be used from the currently correct political nomenclature, from countries where the rules are not respected, often neither the principles related to ecology nor the rules related to cultivation are observed properly. So much for tobacco. If it's about alcohol, I'm not gonna trade any brands of alcohol, I'm not gonna talk like one of my colleagues that I don't know them, but I'd be the last one to want to advertise them. Except in general, the ones I know, at least from old times, strange coincidences after these years of privatisation are also products of companies based in different places of the world, but rarely in Poland. And also often, non-Polish products are raw materials to produce something that according to European indications has the right to use the name "Polish vodka." This is produced from spirit produced from raw materials which are not permitted by this designation. We have written in international law that Polish vodka can only be produced from the raw materials that existed and exist in the Polish tradition, i.e. Not from corn. And if we're talking about hops, then from our western neighbor goes all the hops into the production of what's produced from hops. So who are we defending? What are we defending? What kind of business are we defending? Maybe we should ask ourselves: is it really the defence of the social side, or is it the defence of the industry, which after these years is the way I presented it? And when it comes to the gray area, she was, is, and will be. Well, more effort should be made to combat the grey zone, to introduce legal mechanisms that will not allow it to develop, which will allow Poles to work not in the production of what is harmful, but in the production of what is healthy, because in a moment someone will talk, and already such voices appear, that further drugs should be legalized, because many people would find employment. But then what the social consequences would be, we know. And I think we're all aware that it's probably the problem of our geography-historic location and our habits for generations... It is a problem that so much alcohol is consumed in Poland that so much tobacco is consumed. And maybe that's why the health care you're so concerned about has more costs and problems. So, by the end of the day, I would like to draw attention to one more point. I will admit that I cannot really understand the next line of reasoning regarding these two draft laws. I'll admit, when I was eight years in opposition, In the Seym, not in the Senate, I would be glad if the Polish rulers at the time accepted at least one of my projects or our project as their own and reported it as soon as it happened in the case of the Senate project. After all, everyone knows who was the author of this, although the discussion is ongoing, whether Senator Bierecki or someone else first reported this idea. But, well, I don't see any reason to make this a special situation. I don't remember the senator, the marshal used the word, but the point was it should never happen again. I'd like it to happen more often. and in this House and in the Lower House, in the Sejm That good projects, regardless of what type of designer they have, are quickly processed and adopted just like own projects. So I'll admit that there's probably too much here to talk about issues that are important from the point of view of our nation, our state. important as part of the fight against cigarette abuse, tobacco abuse, alcohol abuse And attempts to prove that these solutions serve nothing, on the contrary, increase the burden of Poles. If someone even because of this fact that excise duty will be higher, drink less alcohol, sleep less cigarettes, it is good for Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u213	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Kołacz-Leszczyńska, please take the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u214	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! Respecting the time of the senators, because the many arguments that have been presented today in this Chamber in various areas, the care and wisdom that arose from these statements... I do not agree with the last statement, but, ladies and gentlemen, we have already said everything quite rightly. We also listened to the Minister who answered every question. But unfortunately, these answers did not dispel our doubts. And that's why, fearing... and also not knowing that even one zloty of this increased excise duty was aimed at health prevention programs, whether it was one of the problems included in the Seym Amendment, connected with the programme for the fight against cancer, while also knowing the possibilities and knowledge for what purposes and for how various projects money is spent, fearing that this 1 billion 700 million PLN could be targeted, for example. To repair the public television budget that Mr. Kurski directs... In view of all these concerns and many others, we have decided to apply for the rejection of the Act amending the excise duty Act, which I hereby do. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u215	There's a group of senators here, right? I see. Yeah, yeah, because... I think that's... Well, I don't think that's necessary, but we're giving it back. I just need to type in the names. Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the sake of order, I would like to inform you that Senator Władysław Komarnicki made his speech in the discussion to the minutes, and that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Grzegorz Bierecki and at the moment Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska with Senator Leszek Czarnobaj, Jolanta Hibner and Paweł... Arndt. How? Arndt. Arndt. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The Minister has undertaken to respond in writing to Senator Dowhan. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Does a government representative want to comment on the proposals or topics put forward in the discussion? No. No. Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. Without a common one. Without common, yes. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the law amending the Law amending the Law on excise duty and the Law on customs law. The text of this law is contained in print No 18 and the committee's report In print No 18 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u216	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have already talked a lot about this law at the first meeting. To answer the questions, I was talking about the reasons why we're adopting this bill. This is the bill that came to us from the Sejm. It was adopted following the development of our position and the selection of a rapid path of the Senator's initiative. However, in view of the fact that the contested law was created, we have already taken a decision together at an earlier stage, as a whole of the House, that we are not making a rapid progress, that the act prepared as an initiative of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance is not being carried out quickly, that we are proceeding in the ordinary procedure. There is a law prepared by the Sejm, the one I am talking about right now and which introduces the possibility of paper documentation of the turnover of certain categories of fuels. This law solves a problem that has been and is a very serious problem for many suppliers. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finance supports it and requests that the law be adopted without amendments, with all these reservations, of course, the doubts I mentioned during my first speech. However, the bill is important and necessary, which is why I am asking for it to be adopted. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u217	Thank you, Senator rapporteur. Are there any questions for the senator? No. Thank you. Thank you very much. The draft law was introduced by Members. Does Minister Leszek Skiba wish to speak on the bill? No. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Kazimierz Klein. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u218	I'm sorry to ask that question. I could've asked them before. Don't apologize. Just keep going. I would like to ask the Minister about the number of companies that operate the aviation fuel and fuel industry for ships and which have not prepared for this possibility of electronic marketing documentation. Because in this law we propose that this turnover can be documented in electronic form and in paper form.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u219	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u220	This law has a direct impact on 75 000 taxpayers. I understand that this question concerns those companies that have not prepared themselves. We have information that these are the largest companies, mainly companies that are subordinate to the largest companies that are actually engaged in various types of aviation fuel trading. There are also issues related to... There are growing doubts about the application of this law by companies that transport fuel by pipelines. To be honest, there aren't a lot of these companies, because there's probably a dozen of them, but the scale of their activity is quite large.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u221	You're welcome, Senator Kleina.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u222	One more question. You answered the question about this problem at the committee meeting, but I think it would be good to put it in our plenary. The question is that the Minister of Finance has committed that individuals who use fuel oil as a source of heat will not be obliged to carry out this entire electronic notification procedure and that this system will continue to be maintained next year. It's pretty important because it's about an individual, and these people are probably hundreds of thousands.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u223	Yeah, it's about... Just in the case of the EMCS system, it's about this gas, which is a cylinder gas, which is propane-butane used for house heating, because in the EMCS system it's just... Fuel oil is in the SENT system and it's kind of a separate system, and this law applies to this product, which is in the EMCS system, which is propane-butane for heating houses transported in cylinders. This law also applies to natural persons, household owners who heat houses in this way, and by adopting this law we exempt them from the obligation to use only the electronic system from 1 January 2020. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Stanisław Karczewski.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u224	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u225	Minister, there's still information. But it's outside the law, as if independently of the law on the customers of heating oil in households, about the fact that it is, so to speak, such a gift for the fact that we accept this law, and that this gift for the customers of heating oil in households is such that they will now receive not, so to speak, thousands of litres of fuel oil, but a simplified documentation procedure. Come on...
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u226	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u227	Thank you very much. It's just... Indeed, during the debate in the Sejm, we declared that the analysis would be carried out in such a way that this mechanism of confirming the supply of gas in the form of a bottle would take place in the EMCS system, and that the supply of fuel oil would be carried out in the SENT system, so that all analyses would be consistent and actually carried out in the scope of the SENT system in general. The SENT system is more restrictive because more irregularities have been diagnosed in the field of fuel oil. So we will absolutely try to analyse this issue in order to make these validation principles more consistent. Because in the SENT system, such a voice was required to have a smartphone, which is not always beneficial from the point of view of... They were just mentioned to the proverbial retirees, for which it might be a problem. This is the issue that we discussed at the committee meeting, which you spoke about, which is the question of making this system more coherent. And as the Ministry of Finance, we have already declared in the Sejm that we will see how confirmation works for households in the SENT system and EMCS system.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u228	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Jerzy Czerwiński is asking you a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u229	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This law also applies to excise goods taxed at zero excise duty on account of their intended use. Does this also apply to electronic cigarette fluids? That may be a naive question, but I'd like an answer from you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u230	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u231	No, it's not. They are not covered by this rate.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u232	Thank you. Are there any more questions for the Minister? I can't see, I can't hear the calls. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Senator, Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. You're welcome. Mr. Marshal, I resign because we discussed the same Senate bill, the Senate project that we withdrew from. Are there any legislative proposals? No. Would anyone else like to come in? No. No. I'm informing you... Well, in fact, I'm telling you that none of your senators have signed up to speak since you signed up for the marshal. And I'm closing the discussion right now. Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Since there were no votes in the discussion, I will no longer ask the Minister... Minister, is there anything else you'd like to say? No. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2019. The text of the Act is contained in print No 22 and the report of the Commission In print No 22 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u233	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance adopted an opinion amending the Law on Specific Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2019. This is a law that we adopt every year around Christmas. In this Act there are 2 elements: the first element is the shift of expenditure from 2019 which has not been implemented for 2020, the second is the redirection of certain appropriations not used in the 2019 budget to other purposes. As you have written in this Act, these unused funds, blocked in accordance with the Public Finance Act, the legislator proposes to transfer to 2 objectives: by 2 billion... Perhaps otherwise, funds up to PLN 2 billion are proposed by the legislator to transfer to the National Health Fund the so-called. a reserve fund and up to PLN 1 billion for the Police Support Fund. As regards the shift of this year's expenditure to the next year, three objectives are indicated: PLN 103 million for the implementation of projects under the modernisation programme for uniformed services, PLN 20 million PLN 400 000 for the purchase of ambulances and over 14 million for specific investments, which the Ministry of Interior and Administration in the MSWiA. This is, of course, about projects which for various reasons have not yet been settled or settled by 31 December. And we extend the time for these investments, and in practice, in most cases, for the settlement of these investments, to 30 April. The discussion of this bill was quite long, turbulent, many senators were speaking. There were many guests, former representatives of the Ministry of Health, Ministry of Finance, also representatives of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. As a result of this discussion, two proposals were made: a proposal for a law without amendments, and a proposal made by Marshal Borusewicz for the adoption of this law, but after taking into account the amendment made by the Marshal. Mr Marshal proposed to increase the amount allocated to the NFZ reserve fund from up to 2 billion to 3 billion and consequently to amend certain provisions of the Act. As a result of the vote, the motion to adopt the law without amendments was not accepted by the committee, Mr Borusewicz's request for an amendment was granted by this majority and the committee introduced this amendment into the bill, and later the committee also gave a positive opinion on this law with the amendment tabled by Mr Borusewicz. That's it? Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u234	Everything. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you. The draft law was introduced by the government as a matter of urgency. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Would the Minister like to speak? No. Thank you. Is a government representative Mr Cieszyński from the Ministry of Health is still in the room. Does he want to speak? Do any of the ministers want to speak? No. At present, however, senators may submit no longer than a minute of inquiry to government representatives present in the Chamber. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. I therefore close the discussion. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item six of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Retail Tax. The text of the Act is contained in print No 19 and the report of the Commission In print No 19 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Stanisław Ożog, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u235	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The opinion of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance is very short, as the discussion was very short. The budgetary committee unanimously calls on the High House to adopt the proposed amendment to the law. In view of this statement and practically zero discussion in the sitting, I thank you for your attention. I believe that a government representative will possibly answer questions about why these proposals are included here.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u236	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators can report from a place lasting no more than a minute... Mr. Senator, wait. We don't know yet. Maybe someone's gonna ask your senator something. ...Questions about the bill under consideration. I don't see any requests for questions. Thank you very much, Senator. Does the government representative present wish to speak? Minister? No. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of questioning to a government representative. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. Then I will close the discussion. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Public Collective Transport Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 21 and the report of the committee In print No 21 A. Please, the rapporteur of the committee... Oh, I don't see your senator. Why isn't he here? He didn't make it to the O.R. Okay, so I'm calling a five-minute break by 5:38... or 5:37, but by 5:37. He already knows. He already knows, doesn't he? Yeah, he knows. We're waiting. Good. There it is. Oh, there it is. There it is. Well, where have you been, Senator? You're not following the proceedings. They said this point should be tomorrow. There's a break until 5:37. Mr. Marshal... But there's a break, Mr. Senator. Oh, I'm sorry. I told you it's break time till 5:37. It's okay. We can't cut this break short. [[Adjournment from 17 minutes 32 to 17 minutes 37.]] I'm reopening the session. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Wiesław Dobkowski, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u237	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure an opinion on the Act amending the Public Collective Transport Act. This law extends the date for the entry into force of certain provisions of the Act of 16 December 2010 on public collective transport by a further year. This Act of 16 December 2010 lays down the rules for the organisation and functioning of regular carriage of persons in public collective transport, the management of transport services in that market and regulates issues relating to the operation of regular carriage of persons in public collective transport in the field of public transport of services of general interest. The Act was discussed at the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure by the State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Minister Rafał Weber. The Act is necessary to postpone the date of entry into force of the provisions of the Act mentioned above. This is linked to the progress of the ongoing work on changing the concept of the functioning of public collective transport. In addition, the explanatory memorandum states that the wording of the provisions of the draft law amending the Public Collective Transport Act is the consequence of the planning in the Budget Act for 2020 of the measures respectively: in part 85 of the The absence of these provisions would imply the need to adopt a structure different from that contained in the draft budget law for 2020 of the providers responsible for the financing of services. Ranges... At the same time, it should be stressed that the provisions which were to enter into force on 1 January 2020 contain a different system of financing of concessions from the current system of financing of concessions, e.g. assume a change in the nature of the grant to the railway relief from the grant in question to a targeted grant, as well as a change in the nature of the financing of the bus reliefs as part of the current task of the government administration for its own task. The failure to regulate for 2020 the amendment of these provisions would pose a serious risk that the budget law would not ensure the proper financing of the reliefs. In order to avoid such difficulties, the Act shall extend the date of entry into force of those provisions to 1 January 2021. Mr Marshal, High Senate, at the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure I spoke, Mr Jan Hamerski spoke and, above all, the minister I mentioned. No amendments were tabled after the discussion. The law was adopted without amendments and the committee presents this proposal to the High House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u238	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question? You're welcome, Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u239	Thank you very much, Mr President... Excuse me, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, the bill contains a different system from the current system of financing reliefs. I'd like to ask you what the difference is. I would also like to ask if this variation will cause problems in the application of reductions from 1 January 2020.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u240	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u241	Mr. Marshal! Senator! This law sort of extends the existing system, because next year there is going to be a new act, a comprehensive act that will otherwise regulate these reliefs. A new law will enter into force which will regulate cases concerning the restoration of PKS connections in those places where they are inefficient. Therefore, there will be a way of financing local governments, which will restore connections that are not profitable. Right now it's done on a different basis, and that's where the change is. This should be postponed by a year so that a new law can be prepared in full at that time. May I, Mr. Marshal?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u242	Please, Senator, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u243	Mr. Senator, I asked what kind of changes are to be made in the funding system that could cause this bill to fail next year. What kind of changes are these when it comes to the financing system?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u244	The point is that the changes should not be made, and that the rules that have been in place until now continue to function for a year. It's about extending the state that is. I see. But what I'm saying is... If adopted in 2021, what will be the change? Ma'am, there's gonna be a bill, there's gonna be a new bill that we're gonna talk about here. I only know the general assumptions, some things aren't detailed at the moment. Maybe the Minister can tell you more about what the plans are. For now, this is... the bill that we're investigating right now is about to extend the existing state by a year. And then there'll be a special bill, and we'll process it next year. We'll talk about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u245	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz is asking a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u246	Mr. Senator, this might be a more rhetorical question. What is the guarantee that next year we will not vote on the extension of the bill again? I'll tell you what I mean. I've been president for 17 years. We were prepared in 2015 for the announced changes to take place in 2017. We built a urban-rural transport system, which caused rural communities to lose their subsidies. We've made common communication, great communication, which works great, but translating the entry into force of this law is beating us a little bit, because those who have stood up to the task are, in a sense, being punished. It's, I don't know, I'm getting lost, like, 17th time when it comes to changes in the bill that are being proposed. The principle of one zloty to a kilometer is a complete failure, it doesn't work, urban communication doesn't work. Ours is functioning and we would not like to be punished as a community for standing at the level of our sentences. Question. In your opinion, will this bill, now extended by one year, be renewed again next year? Anything in public transport... Of course, I'm talking about bus communications as a former self-government officer. Is there any hope, in your opinion, that this is the last year?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u247	Mr. Senator, you're welcome to express your opinion.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u248	In my opinion, Senator, there is hope because during the campaign or even before the election campaign, there were proposals made by the Law and Justice that will be co-financing for these local authorities and for these transports, those lines that are not profitable. Certain conditions are laid down, the percentage to be found in the municipality of these unprofitable, simple connections. And as for the details, there will be a bill and we will talk about it, and now, because there was an election campaign... Well, this year, in 2019, there was still a matter of discounting, so we probably wouldn't have made it through this new bill this year. Now is the time to do it and you can do it. Easy, easy, easy, easy, easy, easy. I believe that a new comprehensive law will be adopted in 2020. So since January 1, 2021, I hope... I'm counting on it here. I am convinced that we are going to implement this bill. Ad vocem, may I?
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u249	Is that a question? Ad vocem. Well, you can also ad vocem. There you go. I'm gonna repeat that question and... It's not an ad vocem anymore, it's a repeat of the question, but please.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u250	Okay, good. Mr. Senator, you said that in 2015, Law and Justice promised that they would make these changes, and the right thing to do... No, no. Now, this year. Well, I guess it's the 17th shift. I'm totally lost. The point is, we've been expecting these changes, but it's been over four years, and these changes are gone. Such self-governments as mine, which have stood at the height of the task, are punished today, we are punished for believing in the announced changes. We wouldn't want to be punished, as this good government, for standing up to the task. And this is a suggestion, a request that this right change, which was announced in 2015, finally implement, because, as I mentioned, we did what we had to do. One zloty to a kilometer is a total failure, it doesn't work. Finally, put in place a good bill, which we will vote for and for which we will all be here, because that is what local governments are waiting for, and also good local governments, not only the bad ones, but also the good ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2019-12-17-senat-02-1.u251	That wasn't a question, Senator. I understand the question is... No, no, don't answer that. Well, you can relate, of course, even though the questions... No, no. I didn't hear or see the question mark, but okay, okay, I get it... At first, I said... Well, that was a repeat of the question, yes. Good. I understand, Mr. Senator. Are there any more questions for the Senator rapporteur? There isn't. Thank you very much, Senator. Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby announce a recess until 9 a.m. tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[Meeting adjourned at 17 minutes 48.]]
